
                               1 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 23, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

NO 1996 BALLOT QUESTION ON SERVICES TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Citing a lack of public and political support, a group seeking to deny social
services to undocumented immigrants is abandoning its campaign to force a
statewide referendum in November. But organizers say they'll try again in two
years.

"We are having a tough go. It does not look like we will reach our goal of
getting it on the 1996 ballot," FLA-187 Executive Director Rob Ross said Monday.

Ross said FLA-187 raised only about $ 100,000 to finance the collection of the
required 429,428 voter signatures by the Aug. 6 deadline. Despite 14 months of
work, just 60,000 signatures are in hand, he said.

With two weeks left to go, FLA-187 has 8,643 certified signatures counted in
Tallahassee, said Paula Reams, a spokeswoman for the state Division of
Elections. Reams said Save our State, an Orlando-based group seeking a similar
referendum, has turned in 1,175 signatures.

The petition drives were also hurt by in-fighting. Organizer Doug Guetzloe
claimed Save our State was the official offshoot of California's Proposition 187
- a ballot measure that passed in 1994 with the blessing of that state's
governor - and demanded that FLA-187 change its name.

"The fact that the two groups were not united posed a real problem," said Cheryl
Little, a Miami immigration attorney who opposed the petitions. She said voters
were also confused because FLA-187 proposed four constitutional amendments while
Save our State offered a separate one.

Boca Raton-based FLA-187 began its campaign with amendments barring illegal
immigrants from public benefits and social services; barring illegal immigrants
from public education; ordering state and local authorities to cooperate with
federal immigration agents; and ordering that all government functions be in
English. Save Our State's single amendment barred illegal immigrants from using
social services or attending public schools.

Reams said it would be a miracle if either group could meet the deadline. The
signatures, however, can be used to petition a referendum in 1998, which Ross
said is his new target date.

Opposition from state Republican leaders and Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles made
collecting signatures difficult, Ross said.

Chiles' actions against illegal immigration may have convinced Florida voters
that a Proposition 187-like amendment is unneeded, said Mark Schlakman, the
governor's legal adviser on immigration.

Guetzloe could not be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               2 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 12, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL DOUBLES RATE OF DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Added detention cells and expanded deportation flights are allowing immigration
authorities to remove twice as many undocumented immigrants from the area in
recent months.

More than 800 have been put aboard immigration service and commercial airliners
since October, double the number removed during in the same period a year ago.
The immigrants were caught in the eight-county area under the jurisdiction of
the U.S. Border Patrol office in Riviera Beach.

Apprehensions have not doubled, but the new detention space and more immigration
flights make more removals possible, said Art Bullock, agent in charge of the
office.

In past years, the Border Patrol released most immigrants apprehended because of
a shortage of detention space. While they were released on the condition of
departing voluntarily, most are believed to have stayed in the United States.

"They just disappeared into the woodwork," Bullock said. "Now we have space to
detain them."

Those detained now are likely to end up at the Manatee County Jail in Bradenton,
where the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service leases 328 beds for
deportable immigrants. The number of planes operated by the federal government
for immigrant transport also increased from three to six in the past year.

For the past two years, Congress has given more money for control of illegal
immigration.

The increased removals are causing some immigrant organizations to fear mass
deportations are not too far down the road.

The Border Patrol apprehended 1,241 immigrants in its eight-county jurisdiction
from January through June of this year, a 20 percent increase over last year,
Bullock said.

The enforcement is concentrating on work sites. Last month, 63 undocumented
workers were taken into custody at a Hobe Sound motel. They had been hired as
construction workers at a housing development in Martin County.

Immigrants held, removed

                         1996      1997
   Apprehensions        1,012    1,241
   Removed from U.S.      411      809
   Voluntary departure    700      552 SOURCE: Half-year statistics from U.S.
Border Patrol, Riviera Beach.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               3 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 21, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

INS BUSTS THREE FLESH-TRAFFICKING CARTELS

BYLINE: Gary Kane, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Calling it the most sophisticated immigrant-smuggling operation in the nation's
history, immigration officials announced Friday the dismantling of three foreign
cartels that funneled thousands of Indian nationals into the United States
through South Florida.

The smugglers provided the undocumented workers to employers who ''placed
orders'' for the cheap laborers, investigators said. Immigration officials said
they intend to seek sanctions against businesses that employed the immigrants.

The cartels reaped nearly $ 220 million in smuggling fees during the past three
years, immigration officials estimated.

''It's time for those who trafficked in flesh to pay their pound of flesh,''
vowed U.S. Attorney Paul Coggins, whose Dallas office lodged three indictments
against the cartels' top operators.

Twenty-one of the 31 people named in the indictment have been arrested.

U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno said the governments of a half-dozen countries
cooperated with U.S. investigators to smash the smuggling rings. The operations
offered ''an example of the increasingly international scope'' of
illegal-immigrant trafficking, she said.

The primary smuggling itinerary involved flights from India to Russia and then
on to Cuba. Smugglers moved their human cargo from Cuba by boat to the Bahamas,
where the illegal immigrants boarded planes or boats to Miami.

Miami served as a transit point, from which smugglers transported immigrants to
businesses primarily along the Eastern seaboard. Very few of the Indians settled
in Florida, investigators said.

Authorities declined to name the businesses.

''We believe that at least 12,000 people were smuggled into the United States
during the past three years,'' said Doris Meissner, commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

People paid as much as $ 25,000 each to be smuggled into the country, officials
said. The immigrants' families or employers often paid the fees.

Sometimes, arriving immigrants were locked in ''stash houses'' until fees were
paid. Investigators located one such house in Miami and others in New Jersey.

Two kingpins arrested

The kingpins of two cartels have been arrested. Nitin Shettie, 30, an Indian
national who went by the name Nick Diaz, was apprehended during a raid last
Saturday at his home in Nassau, Bahamas. Authorities found 31 immigrants inside
the house.

''He was very surprised when he saw us,'' said Border Patrol Special Agent
Steven Quinones, who participated in the raid.

Another cartel leader, Navtej Pall Singh Sandu, 40, of London, was arrested
Wednesday in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The leader of the third cartel, Niranjan
Maan Singh, 58, still is being sought and is believed to be in India.

The investigation, dubbed Operation Seek and Keep, marked the first time agents
used the wire-tapping authority granted them under the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Agents intercepted more than
35,000 telephone calls during the investigation.

The case also will mark the first time that money-laundering charges will be
used in the prosecution of immigrant smugglers. Prosecutors explained that
money-laundering convictions will yield longer prison sentences than immigrant
smuggling.

No evidence of abuse

The smugglers, who sometimes competed with each other, had been in business for
at least a decade, investigators said.

Though there is no evidence that smuggled immigrants suffered abuse at the hands
of the cartels, their journeys were ''hard, grueling trips, fraught with
danger,'' Coggins said.

''Some of these illegal aliens were in transit for months and months,'' he said.

Though most of the businesses hiring the immigrants are on the East Coast,
employers were found in 38 states, investigators said.

Typically, the Indians were employed in minimum-wage jobs, an agent said. Nearly
all of those smuggled were adult men from the Gujarat state in western India.

Reno described the businesses as ''unscrupulous employers . . . who wanted cheap
labor and fearful workers who could easily be manipulated.''

Coggins said his office is following about 1,000 leads on businesses that placed
orders with the smuggling operations for illegal workers. Law enforcement
officers have visited 26 work sites, he said.

Smuggling fees were shipped to India through Dallas, the Bahamas, Canada, Dubai,
Ecuador or the United Arab Emirates, INS officials said.

Other countries cooperated

The governments of the Bahamas, Canada, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, India
and Panama cooperated in the investigation, which also involved the FBI, U.S.
Customs Service, Internal Revenue Service, State Department and U.S. Postal
Inspection Service.

The governments of Russia and Cuba were not involved in the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               4 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 15, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

EMPLOYERS HAVE LITTLE FEAR OF INS INSPECTION

BYLINE: Gary Kane, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1875 words


The promise of jobs fuels the business of migrant smuggling, and Florida offers
a land of opportunity for those who sneak across its borders.

"Personally, I believe that if you focused on employees and contractors and take
away all sources of employment . . . you can literally turn your back on the
borders," said Billy Kring, former chief of the U.S. Border Patrol in Miami.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which oversees the Border Patrol,
does just the opposite. It focuses on border security.

An illegal job market flourishes in Florida, prompting growing numbers of
migrants to turn to smugglers. And smugglers operate in a climate of acceptable
risk: a Border Patrol in Florida that hasn't seen an increase in manpower in 10
years, a Coast Guard patrolling a region strewn with islands of safe havens,
courts wrestling with complex immigration law and juries sympathetic toward
refugees.

About 350,000 illegal immigrants live in Florida, according to a 1997 INS
estimate.

During the years immediately following Congress' decision in 1986 to outlaw the
hiring of illegal aliens, the Miami INS office opened hundreds of cases against
employers. In 1988, the agency investigated 711 employers.

By the early 1990s, the caseload had dropped dramatically. Agents were handling
fewer than 50 investigations a year. It was during that period that the Border
Patrol was instructed to concentrate on immigrants, not employers, Kring said.

"In the late 1980s we focused on the work site and it made a huge difference,"
Kring said. "We'd go to work site and maybe 80 percent would be illegals. We'd
go back and they'd be a lot less, and the third time you'd be lucky to find one
or two. Now, we just don't have the manpower to do it."

The INS in Miami opened 126 cases last year against employers statewide. Many
involve employers' failure to keep decent records showing whether their workers
are here legally.

The agency removed 133 illegal workers from their jobs last year in South
Florida. Offending employers were fined a total of $ 28,650.

The sanctions work, said Thomas Danter, supervisor of the investigations unit in
Miami.

"In the past, we would remove unauthorized workers and nothing happened to the
employers," he said. "They would just go out and hire more."

Now, employers can be fined up to $ 3,000 per worker and sentenced to six months
in prison. Danter said he's never seen an employer sentenced to prison in
Florida. He's been an agent since 1987.

Inspection turns into melee

Local INS officials hesitate to even talk about work-site inspections. Their
reluctance might be traced to an April 23 raid at a flower wholesaler in West
Dade.

A melee erupted while armed agents rounded up 23 workers at First Paragon
Floral. Workers complained that agents pushed them around, forced them to sit on
wet floors, confined them in a cold storage area and shouted at them to produce
their papers. Some employees insisted they were legal residents or green-card
workers and resisted the agents, prompting a call to Miami-Dade police.

Community leaders, including Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas, lambasted the
INS. It turned out that three of the arrested workers were permanent residents
and eight others were eligible for work permits.

The raid was mentioned in a report issued by the National Network for Immigrant
and Refugee Rights, which accused INS agents nationwide of using terror tactics.
The report, called "Portrait of Injustice" documented abuses in 235 INS raids.

Less than a month after the West Dade incident, the INS directed its agents to
have a written plan for every "work-site enforcement" and to bring a liaison
officer with them. The agency also told inspectors to focus on employers who
hire smuggled aliens immigrants or abuse their workers.

That's exactly what the Miami office is doing, which explains why investigators
have opened only eight cases against employers since last fall.

"We don't do area-control operations," which is Danter's way of saying there are
no surprise raids at job sites.

That means INS agents rarely investigate the largest employer of unauthorized
workers - the state's fruit and vegetable growers.

Farms not investigated

No farm owner in Florida has been sanctioned for hiring illegal workers during
the past three years, according to data compiled by the Center for Immigration
Studies. Instead, the INS has fined restaurants, landscapers, nurseries and
other small businesses.

"If we get a lead (about a farm employing illegal workers), it does get
investigated," Danter said. "I haven't seen any types of leads recently come in
on that."

Nonetheless, even advocates for the growers say it's no secret that large
numbers of illegal employees are working the fruit and vegetable fields.

"I've seen estimates as high as 80 percent. There's no question it's
significant," said Walter Kates, a labor specialist with the Florida Fruit &
Vegetable Association in Orlando.

Growers can do little to weed out unauthorized workers, he said. Field hands are
getting jobs with counterfeit identification and immigration documents, he said.

"The way the law is written, the employer cannot second-guess or ask for
additional documents," Kates said. "That becomes a form of discrimination and
the farmer would be subject to fines."

Counterfeit alien immigrant registration receipt cards, the new version of what
used to be called green cards, are widespread, he said.

"It's always been the Achilles' heel of verification."

Danter added that the INS doesn't expect farmers to be able to spot phony
documents. The INS operates a separate unit dedicated to chasing bogus document
suppliers.

In November, the INS raided a counterfeiting ring in Los Angeles that produced
phony documents, some of which turned up in Florida.

Farm worker advocates charge that counterfeit documents offer a convenient
excuse for growers. Growers could check workers' records electronically through
a voluntary INS program being tested in Florida. But none are is participating.

"There are powerful interests, fruit and vegetable growers among them, who want
to make sure a system like this is not implemented nationwide," said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

Growers dodge the verification problem by hiring their field hands from farm
labor contractors, say migrant worker advocates. Contractors function like
independent foremen. Growers pay them to deliver work crews. The contractors
hire pickers, and it's their responsibility to check each worker's papers.

Farmers expect contractors to follow the law, said Gary Smigiel, general counsel
for Mecca Farms of Lantana. "We require contractors to hire legal help," he
said.

No contractor in Florida has been fined for hiring illegal workers during the
past decade.

The state Department of Labor & Employment Security has no record of ever
revoking or suspending the license of a contractor for hiring undocumented
workers, said an agency spokesman. The department, which licenses contractors
for the federal government, refers any matters involving illegal workers to the
INS.

Illegal workers don't complain

"Regulating contractors has done nothing," said attorney Gregory Schell of the
Migrant Farmworkers Justice Project in Belle Glade.

Farms are the "sweatshops in the sun," he said. Farmers treasure illegal workers
because they don't complain and work for low wages, he said.

Farmhands arrive in Florida owing $ 800 to $ 1,200 to smugglers, Schell said.
Their debts often are deducted from their wages.

"Smuggling fees take about 50 percent of what's earned, so we see people crying
about not being able to send money home," Schell said.

A contractor in western Palm Beach County, who asked that his identity be
protected, said harvests are done almost exclusively by illegal workers from
Mexico. No one else will accept the jobs, the contractor said.

Growers also argue that migrant workers are the only people willing to work the
farms. Removing illegal workers would only create a worker shortage, they say.

However, a 1997 federal report indicated that farmers need not worry. Less than
5 percent of the INS work-site investigations involved agriculture. Furthermore,
INS officials quoted in the report said they were ill-equipped to significantly
reduce unauthorized farm workers.

Mike Hancock, director of the Department of Labor's farm workers division in
Washington, D.C., sees another force blocking an INS crackdown on employers.

"That's not going to happen because of the politics."

For example, several congressmen, led by Sen. Paul Coverdell, R.-Ga., halted a
massive INS raid in May on onion farms in Vidalia, Ga. Farmers bitterly
complained that their harvest would be ruined without the 4,000 to 5,000
Mexicans they hire each year.

In an unprecedented move, the INS agreed to look the other way while scores of
illegal workers harvested the onions. In exchange, farmers agreed to do more to
comply with migrant labor laws.

Workers move to other jobs

Farms are the entry-level workplaces for many illegal migrants. From there, they
move to poultry farms, restaurants and lumber yards. Others find jobs in
tourism.

"We see most unauthorized workers in hotels and restaurants," said INS
investigator Danter.

The state's booming construction industry is another source of jobs.

"We hear from people who can't get jobs because they're being displaced by
illegal workers," said Rick Grennier, chief of the Border Patrol in Orlando.

Subcontractors who hire illegal workers save money and are able to underbid
competitors, he explained. For example, agents arrested about 40 illegal workers
at Celebration, Disney's upscale housing development.

When Congress pumped up the INS budget in 1996, it added money for new work-site
inspectors. But it hasn't added money for more inspectors since then.

"We got nothing," recalled Russell Bergeron, an INS spokesman in Washington.
"The critics who complain about the lack of interior enforcement are the same
ones who vote against the resources to accomplish it."

Still, the INS seems more vigilant in other states.

During the first nine months of 1997, the INS cited 23 employers in Florida for
hiring illegal aliens, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.
Incomplete 1997 figures were the most recent data available.

But in the same period, the INS sanctioned 89 employers in New York, 57 in
Texas, 27 in New Jersey, 28 in Pennsylvania and 30 in Ohio.

The INS is expected to soon unveil a five-year plan that focuses on illegal
workers, document fraud and smuggling within the United States, Bergeron said.

The plan is long overdue, say critics. And until it is implemented, immigrants
will continue to pay smugglers to bring them to the farms, the restaurants, the
hotels and construction sites.

"Congress is telling aliens that, if they can run the gauntlet gantlet, then
they can work here," said Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies.
"It's a moral issue. The nation is provoking illegal immigration, but making
that immigration dangerous."

Staff writer John Holland contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Last of three parts

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W) & GRAPHIC (B&W, 1. (C) Mark Krikorian (mug), 2. Miami
Herald File Photo, RAID PROMPTS MELEE: Nicaraguan and Haitian workers at a West
Dade flower importer protest after an INS raid April 23. The confrontation
between agents and immigrants grew so wild that Miami-Dade police were called.
Three of the 23 arrested were permanent residents and eight were eligible for
permits. Less than a month later, INS issued new rules for such raids and
essentially stopped conducting them., 3. CHRISTOPHER SMITH/Staff Artist,
Employer sanctions

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               5 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 30, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

GLADES COUNTY WANTS INS DETENTION CENTER

BYLINE: Bill Douthat; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: MOORE HAVEN


Glades County officials are lobbying for a 400-bed detention center for
undocumented immigrants as a way to boost the economy of the rural county on the
western rim of Lake Okeechobee.

The detention center would bring 61 jobs and $ 8 million a year in payments to
the county from the U.S. Department of Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Sheriff Jim Rider said.

''We have the second-lowest per-capita income in the state and we need
something,'' Rider said.

INS officials said they could not comment on the offer while it's being
reviewed.

Immigrants apprehended by the INS are now held at the 400-bed Krome detention
center south of Miami and in leased space in county jails in Bradenton and
Panama City. Immigrants subject to deportation are often let go by INS agents
because of a lack of detention beds.

''We'd like to build a facility that would accommodate the needs of the INS and
benefit our county,'' Rider said.

''Glades County has no industry, no growth and nobody is moving in here,'' he
said. ''Yet, we are in an ideal location: only an hour away from Krome and one
hour from airports.''

Rider's idea has merit, said County Commission Chairman Bob Giesler, who formed
a panel to help push the proposal. He said he has heard no opposition.

Rider is proposing that the INS pay the estimated $ 11 million cost of building
the detention center. He said the county would earn $ 55 a day for each
immigrant housed at the center.

Glades County, population 9,000, attracted 200 jobs in 1995 with the opening of
a 750-bed private prison for state inmates operated by Wackenhut Corrections
Corp.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
State News

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               6 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 24, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

FEDS RAID HOUSE; DETAIN 15

BYLINE: Kristin Vaughan

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 238 words


Federal agents Sunday detained more than 15 people, including minors, whom they
said were connected with an immigrant smuggling operation in several counties,
including Palm Beach County.

At least three people from Mexico were turned over to the U.S. Border Patrol
after agents raided homes on Southwest First Avenue in Boynton Beach about 9
a.m. Sunday, authorities said.

About a dozen others were taken into custody during similar roundups elsewhere,
however, neither the FBI, U.S. Border Patrol or Immigration and Natural Services
would disclose where.

More arrests are expected, according to Border Patrol Agent Art Bullock, who
said key players in the operation had not been arrested Sunday.

Eight women, including two minors, were being detained at Krome Detention Center
near Miami, while the others were being held in facilities nearby, a detention
center supervisor said.

U.S. attorney's office spokesman Willie Fernandez said the illegal immigrants
"are being detained and have not been charged with anything criminally," but
said he couldn't comment further because the documents involved were sealed.

Neighbors watched Sunday morning as authorities raided homes in Boynton Beach.

"We saw the cars rush up to the house ... It looked like they blocked off the
area," said Heather Reese, who lives in the 200 block of Southwest First Avenue.
"Then they brought in a dog and searched the house."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               7 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 12, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLER 'CAPTAIN JUMP OFF' ON RUN FROM AUTHORITIES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 297 words


A notorious smuggler dubbed ''Captain Jump Off'' for prodding illegal immigrants
to jump from his boat into choppy surf is a fugitive and may be back in
business, officials said Thursday.

Richard B. Barker, 46, of West Palm Beach, is being sought for violation of
probation after spending less than four years in prison for the drownings of
four Haitians he dropped near a Martin County beach in 1994.

An arrest warrant was issued Feb. 20 by U.S. District Judge Edward B. Davis, who
had sentenced Barker in 1994. The U.S. Marshal's office in West Palm Beach said
Barker failed to report to probation officers or take part in substance abuse
counseling after his release from prison.

Barker was convicted on Aug. 25, 1994, of four counts of negligent homicide
after four Haitians, including two children, drowned in the waves off Hutchinson
Island. Some of the 27 Haitians aboard the 28-foot boat piloted by Barker said
they were ordered to jump off the boat into neck-high water while Barker kept
the engine running.

Barker was sentenced to 46 months in prison and put on 3 years' probation.
Officials could not confirm Thursday when Barker got out of prison, but said it
may have been in early 1997. He was listed as a driver involved in a Palm Beach
County traffic accident in September.

The Bahamian government deported Barker at the urging of the U.S. Border Patrol
in early 1997, but he apparently has returned there, said Art Bullock, chief of
the Border Patrol station in Riviera Beach.

Bullock said ''very reliable sources'' spotted Barker in Freeport on Grand
Bahama Island within the past few weeks.

There is no evidence that Barker is again smuggling immigrants, but Bullock said
he is suspicious because of the surge of beach landings this spring.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               8 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 13, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL NOT GETTING NEW AGENTS

BYLINE: Gary Kane, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 2163 words


WHEN U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL JANET RENO ANNOUNCED in November that government
agents had crushed a massive immigrant smuggling ring, immigration officials in
Miami watched on closed-circuit television.

They watched a U.S. Border Patrol agent - in Dallas - provide details of the
investigation.

They watched a U.S. attorney - in Dallas - expound upon the criminal charges he
would argue in prosecuting the case.

And what they heard was the story of a smuggling cartel that had funneled its
human cargo into the country for several years through their back yard - Miami
and points along South Florida's coastline.

Immigration officials watching the news conference in Miami could add little to
the story. They played only supporting roles in the bust.

What was called the most sophisticated immigrant-smuggling operation in the
nation's history had operated under their noses and delivered as many as 300
Indian nationals per month into Florida. These were not Cubans, Haitians or
Central Americans who might easily blend into South Florida.

In battling the smugglers, the U.S. Border Patrol shoulders a logistical
disadvantage in Florida: The number of agents here hasn't increased in 10 years.

Meanwhile, the number of agents nationwide has more than doubled during the past
five years to nearly 8,000.

''We keep asking,'' said Billy G. Kring, who retired as the sector's chief in
December, ''but we never get any agents.''

Almost all the new agents are dispatched along the Mexican border, where the
Immigration and Naturalization Service says they're needed most.

Nonetheless, about 12,000 people illegally enter Florida from the sea each year,
Kring estimates.

''We catch maybe 10 percent.''

Michael Sheehey, acting Border Patrol chief in Miami, inherits the decade-old
task of deploying about 60 agents over a territory that encompasses Florida,
Georgia and the two Carolinas. Manpower is spread thin.

At times, the agency improvises.

Operation Parai'so (Paradise) exemplified the sleight-of-hand strategy. It began
June 1 as an attempt to stop smugglers who were dropping off Cubans on the 110
miles of beaches along the Florida Keys. It succeeded largely because of
perceptions.

''Word was out that we had 200 men'' patrolling the Keys, Kring recalled.

Actually, the operation numbered three agents working out of a Tavernier condo.
They cruised the marinas, boat landings and highways. To residents unaccustomed
to seeing such patrols, the Keys seemed to be crawling with agents. No agents
are stationed there on a regular basis.

The summer-long operation, which cost only $ 48,000, was designed to force
smugglers to head north to Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties, where
beachfronts are lined with homes and condominiums. The Border Patrol relies on
the beach communities and their police to sound the alarm when boatloads of
migrants arrive.

An even more valuable ally is the U.S. Coast Guard.

''Without their presence, I don't think there would be a square foot of beach
without somebody on it arriving from another country,'' Kring said.

Most stopped vessels carry Cubans

On a typical day, the Coast Guard deploys at least two 110-foot patrol boats in
the Florida Straits and aircraft above, said Lt. Commander Mark Woodring of the
Miami Coast Guard District. About 6 percent of the Coast Guard budget, or $ 177
million, is spent on intercepting migrants.

Most of the vessels stopped last year - 102 of them - carried Cubans. By
comparison, patrol boats intercepted 14 vessels transporting Dominicans and 11
with Haitians.

INS estimates at least 350,000 illegal immigrants live in Florida, and the
number sneaking ashore surged last year. More and more of them paid smugglers to
help them.

And for good reason. Smugglers generally have powerful boats that can evade the
Coast Guard. They also carry cell phones and global positioning satellite
devices to deliver passengers to specific locations where get-away vehicles
await them. Some have even called from off shore to summon taxis.

Freezing the numbers of agents in Florida for a decade yielded a predictable
result: Agents nab about the same number of smugglers each year.

During the past five years, agents referred an average of 28 cases of smuggling
or harboring illegal aliens to prosecutors in South Florida annually, according
to Justice Department records compiled by the Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse at Syracuse University.

A small cadre within the Border Patrol and the INS investigates smuggling.

The Border Patrol in Miami has eight agents in its anti-smuggling unit for the
four states it covers. They spend about $ 1 million a year.

INS in Miami also has a tiny anti-smuggling unit, which concentrates on illegal
entry through ports and airports.

Occasionally, Washington acknowledges the manpower problem. For example, INS
officials last year singled out Miami International Airport in a budget report.
The agency called for the hiring of 281 new inspectors for airports across the
nation. Additional inspectors would ''ensure full staffing'' at Miami, they
wrote.

Local INS officials declined to say whether more inspectors at the airport could
have uncovered the massive smuggling operation of Indian nationals that ended
with the bust last November.

Seafaring smugglers, such as those who made last weekend's disastrous crossing
that claimed the lives of at least 15 Haitians, make headlines and TV sound
bites. But most people smuggled into Florida travel in vans, buses and trucks
across the northern border, Border Patrol officials explain. Smugglers deliver
them to jobs in the citrus groves and vegetable fields.

80 percent of migrants enter illegally

About 125,000 migrant workers spill into farms in an eight-county region covered
by the Border Patrol station in West Palm Beach. About 80 percent of the workers
illegally entered the country, estimates Art Bullock, agent in charge of the
office.

Field hands from Central America arrive each growing season. The Border Patrol
started Operation One-Way about three years ago after discovering that smugglers
used trucks and vans rented for a one-way trip to Florida.

''This office probably devotes 70 percent of its time to alien smuggling,'' he
said.

Pursuing smugglers falls to the five agents and two investigators assigned to
the office.

''This station would probably need 40 to 60 new men to do it right,'' Bullock
said.

Growers don't hire workers directly. They get them through the 4,500 licensed
labor contractors who operate in the state.

Unscrupulous contractors hire workers smuggled here through networks operating
in Texas, Arizona and other border states. About 1,000 workers are smuggled
across Florida's northern border each week during the growing season, agents
estimate.

Advocates for migrant workers blame the INS and Border Patrol for the large
number of undocumented field hands in the state. They complain that INS
inspections occur only at the end of the growing season, allowing farm owners to
reap the benefit of the cheap labor.

Acting Chief Sheehey says it's a misconception that the Border Patrol looks the
other way. It's just that his office's budget isn't approved by Washington until
the busiest time of the year for growers.

In other words, the agency cannot enforce the law because it runs out of money.

Once the agency's budget is approved, it focuses on its most pressing cases.
Undocumented farm workers might not be high on the list.

At times, the backlog is overwhelming. Agents have been known to work 12-hour
shifts at stretches of six days a week. Those assigned to the West Palm Beach
station are virtually always on call.

South Florida not a top priority

In Washington's eyes, the cash and manpower dedicated to fighting migrant
smuggling in Florida is measured in the context of national priorities. And
South Florida's migrant smuggling problem isn't a top priority.

''No question that the Miami district doesn't have the resources it needs,''
said Russell Bergeron, an INS spokesman in Washington. ''But you must put your
resources where the most serious problem is.''

Consequently, planners developed a strategy in 1993 to concentrate attention on
the nation's southwest border. About 90 percent of all illegal entries occur
there.

Last year, Congress gave the INS $ 125 million to hire 1,000 new Border Patrol
agents. Nearly all of them were to be assigned to California, Texas, Arizona and
New Mexico.

The INS also initiated Operation Global Reach in June 1997 to prod other
countries to crack down on smugglers. INS officers were sent to 13 foreign
cities to promote cooperation and encourage them to identify and prosecute
smugglers.

The list of cities included five in Central and South America, as well as
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and Kingston, Jamaica. However, the program neglected to
include any Bahamian cities, which serve as safe havens for migrant smugglers.
West End, in the Bahamas, was the departure point for the Haitians who drowned
last weekend.

Also in 1997, the INS announced it would create a list of the 10 most wanted
smugglers. But the list was never developed, an INS spokesman said.

Last October, Gov. Lawton Chiles met with state and federal officials to
encourage them to share intelligence and resources to combat smuggling.

But he didn't announce any new programs. And he said he anticipated no increases
in cash or manpower.

His successor echoed the cry for more federal help after last week's drownings.
Gov. Jeb Bush also suggested that the Florida Department of Law Enforcement get
involved in smuggling investigations.

Washington does plan to beef up the Border Patrol once again. The agency expects
to hire another 1,000 agents in fiscal year 2000.

Once again, none is scheduled to come to Florida.

NO ADDITIONS TO MIAMI OFFICE IN 10 YEARS

The number of Border Patrol agents nationwide doubled in the past 10 years but
almost all went to the Southwest.

 Western Region

       Sector           Agents
   A. Blaine              35
   B. El Centro          389
   C. Livermore           26
   D. San Diego        2,257
   E. Spokane             36
   F. Tucson           1,022
   G. Yuma               247

Central Region

      Sector           Agents
   H. Del Rio            598
   I. El Paso            975
   J. Grand Forks         27
   K. Havre               28
   L. Laredo             638
   M. Marfa              163
   N. McAllen          1,092

Eastern Region

      Sector           Agents
   O. Buffalo             35
   P. Detroit             27
   Q. Houlton             28
   R. Miami               52
   S. New Orleans         41
   T. Ramey               38
   U. Swanton             70
   V. Washington          42


Source: U.S. Border Patrol, As of November, 1998

CAN FLORIDA STOP THE FLOW OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS?

At least 350,000 illegal immigrants live in Florida, and the number sneaking
ashore surged last year. Increasing numbers paid smugglers to help.

52 Border Patrol agents try to stop an estimated 12,000 who come into Florida by
sea each year. The Border Patrol and Coast Guard catch about 10 percent.

How immigrants enter Florida

- Most people smuggled into Florida travel in vans, buses and trucks. Smugglers
deliver them to jobs in the citrus groves and vegetable fields.

- About 1,000 workers are smuggled across Florida's northern border each week
during the growing season, agents estimate.  Unscrupulous contractors hire
workers smuggled here through networks operating in Texas, Arizona and other
border states.

HOW THOSE CAUGHT ARE HANDLED?

Intercepted at sea:

CUBANS: Interviewed by immigration agents at sea and allowed to enter the United
States if their fears of persecution are deemed credible. Otherwise, repatriated
to Cuba or taken to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba, for possible
transport to another country.

HAITIANS: Taken to Port-au-Prince or the Bahamas, if that's where they
originated.

Captured on land

CUBANS: Charged with illegally entering the country and taken to Krome Detention
Center. Given chest X-ray and health screening, then released to family or
friends.

HAITIANS: Taken to Krome Detention Center

to appear before an asylum officer, who will determine whether a credible fear
of persecution exists. If there is no request for asylum, they are deported to
Haiti. If they arrive at an airport, they are placed back on the plane
immediately.

Sources: Border Patrol, INS, Coast Guard

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
First of three parts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) & GRAPHIC (B&W, 1. Billy Kring (mug), 2. CHRISTOPHER
SMITH/Staff Artist, NO ADDITIONS TO MIAMI OFFICE IN 10 YEARS

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               9 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 13, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IS FLORIDA A SAFE HAVEN FOR HUMAN CARGO?

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 293 words


LARRY BELOTTI IS A BORDER PATROL AGENT.

Some nights, Larry Belotti is the Border Patrol.

While the Border Patrol added nearly 4,000 agents during the past 10 years, the
South Florida office got none. A zero increase in manpower during the 1990s that
saw a dramatic increase in profitable, high-tech immigrant smuggling; thousands
of illegal immigrants coming ashore; and untold numbers dying in their efforts
to live in the United States. Just last weekend, in the deadliest smuggling
episode yet, at least 15 Haitians are believed to have drowned between the
Bahamas and Palm Beach County.

At most, just two other agents share the midnight to 8 a.m. duty in South
Florida. With vacations, illness and emergencies, the small staff sometimes
leaves the station manned overnight by just one person: Larry Belotti.

''In reality, I'm the only border patrol agent working this shift between Corpus
Christi, Texas, and Swanton, Vt.,'' Belotti says.

Catching the smugglers is difficult. Prosecuting them is problematic.

In a three-part series beginning today, The Palm Beach Post examines why local
Border Patrol agents, immigration investigators and federal prosecutors - by
their own admissions - cannot stop the migrant smuggling business.

Smuggling increases, but not the budget to fight it

The U.S. Border Patrol budget for its Miami office rose from $ 5.65 million in
1994 to $ 6.17 million in 1998, a relatively small 9.2 percent increase - even
though agents say smuggling is on the rise. At the same time, the overall Border
Patrol's budget has more than doubled, from $ 374.5 million in 1994 to $ 875.4
million last year.

Sources: U.S. Border Patrol, Pembroke Pines; Naturalization and Immigration
Service, Washington, D.C.


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
First of three parts

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) & GRAPHIC (C, 1. E.A. KENNEDY III/Staff Photographer, Border
patrolman Larry Belotti faces a daunting task, often being the only agent on
night duty in South Florida., 2. ROB BARGE/Staff Artist, Smuggling increases,
but not the budget to fight it

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              10 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 20, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

BUSH: WASHINGTON LAX IN BATTLE AGAINST SMUGGLERS

BYLINE: Gary Kane, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 548 words


Washington must do more to stop migrant smuggling before additional people die
off Florida's shores, Gov. Jeb Bush complained Friday in a letter to Attorney
General Janet Reno.

''Preventing alien smuggling is the job of the federal government, and today the
federal government is failing in its responsibility,'' the governor wrote.

In his letter, Bush noted that the failure to deter smuggling has resulted in
two deadly incidents during the past three months - at least 15 Haitians are
believed to have drowned two weeks ago off Palm Beach and as many as 13 Cubans
drowned in mid-December south of Miami.

Bush took issue with a national security spokesman who said the Clinton
administration is ''doing everything it can do'' to combat smuggling.

''The federal government must do more, before other innocent people die off our
shores,'' he wrote.

Bush called for an increase in manpower for the U.S. Border Patrol, Coast Guard
and Immigration and Naturalization Service. He complained that Border Patrol
agents nationwide have more than doubled, while the number of agents in Florida
hasn't increased in ten years - a point made in The Palm Beach Post series on
migrant smuggling last weekend.

The governor told Reno that he would offer agents from the Florida Department of
Law Enforcement to beef up federal forces ''if a lack of federal agents is your
problem.'' He also offered state prisons ''if detention space is a problem.''
But Bush expects the federal government to pay for any state help.

A spokesperson from Reno's office said a response would be made to Bush as soon
as possible.

Bush also called on Reno to expand Krome Detention Center, create a federal task
force on migrant smuggling and direct a public information campaign aimed at
smugglers, including rewards for information leading to their arrest.

The governor further suggested that more effective intelligence and increased
Coast Guard patrols could prevent additional deaths at sea. He noted that the
boats involved in the most recent incidents were detected by passing commercial
ships.

Congressman Mark Foley also blames the administration for neglecting Florida's
migrant-smuggling problem.

''The problem is that all of the money is spent on the southwest border
states,'' he said. ''The smugglers see Florida as the place to go.''

Foley, a West Palm Beach Republican, said he has been lobbying Treasury
Department officials to deploy the Coast Guard's state-of-the-art reconnaissance
aircraft in Florida.

''This would provide the capability to monitor boat traffic at sea and determine
where it is headed and from where it originated,'' he said.

Deporting criminal aliens will continue to be the top priority of the INS,
according to the agency's new five-year plan. The agency will also focus on
migrant smuggling rings. The plan shifts the agency's focus away from raids at
places that employ illegal workers.

The Post's series showed that the INS had already scaled down its efforts to
stop employers from hiring illegal workers in Florida - though many immigration
officials acknowledge that the illegal job market fuels the smuggling trade. The
series also noted that federal prosecutors and judges failed to put many
smugglers behind bars in the past decade.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              11 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 23, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS SEEK HELP IN IDENTIFYING HAITIAN BOAT VICTIMS

BYLINE: Mary Lou Pickel, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


A top-ranking official with the U.S. Border Patrol is looking for people who
believe they lost relatives from Haiti in this month's immigrant smuggling
catastrophe that cost from 15 to 40 lives.

Keith Roberts, third-in-charge of the Border Patrol's office for the southeast
United States, and a Border Patrol intelligence agent visited the Haitian
American Community Council in Delray Beach Monday and obtained a list of those
who fear their relatives were lost at sea.

The Border Patrol is still trying to verify the number and names of people who
drowned and whether there was one boat or two, said Art Bullock, West Palm Beach
Border Patrol chief.

The three survivors of the shipwreck 26 miles off the coast of West Palm Beach
gave conflicting accounts.

Relatives of the immigrants may also be able to help identify the smugglers or
provide other needed information, Bullock said.

Border Patrol staff from the West Palm Beach office has not yet visited Delray
Beach, the heart of the county's Haitian community, as part of its investigation
into the March 6 smuggling wreck.

''I just don't have the man-power for it,'' Bullock said of his eight-member
staff in West Palm Beach.

Nor does the local office have any Creole-speaking officers. And other leads
were more important to follow at first, he said.

Once his office receives the relatives' names, Creole-speaking immigration
inspectors from Miami International Airport will help interview them, Bullock
said.

The funeral for Michaelle Dieujuste, one of the women recovered from the
smuggling shipwreck, will be buried at 1 p.m. Saturday at Our Lady of Perpetual
Help Church in Delray Beach, said Daniella Henry, executive director of the
Haitian American Community Council.

Relatives thought they had buried her on March 13.

But because the medical examiner's office released the wrong body, Dieujuste's
relatives mistakenly buried another smuggling drowning victim, Immacula
Fleurentin.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              12 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 12, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLER GETS 3 YEARS

BYLINE: Scott Hiaasen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 195 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A 63-year-old Orlando man was sentenced to three years in federal prison Friday
for smuggling nine illegal immigrants from the Bahamas to Lantana earlier this
year.

Joseph O'Donnell was arrested in January at a Lantana marina by federal agents
who first suspected him of smuggling drugs on his 30-foot boat, court records
show. Agents found eight Haitian immigrants in a forward hold, and a Cuban woman
was also on board.

During his trial in March, O'Donnell testified that he thought the people on
board were legal immigrants, but their papers were stolen in a robbery in
Freeport before he brought them over. O'Donnell also denied taking money for the
trip, though agents found $ 700 on the console of the boat.

U.S. District Judge Kenneth Ryskamp called O'Donnell's story "pretty
preposterous" and found that he committed perjury during the trial.

O'Donnell was convicted of cocaine trafficking in 1985 in Broward County and of
transporting stolen money in Delaware in 1992, court records show. While in the
Palm Beach County Jail awaiting trial on the immigrant smuggling charges he had
a stroke and was brought to Friday's sentencing in a wheelchair.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              13 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               November 1, 1999, Monday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BORDER PATROL'S NEW ADS WARN AGAINST SMUGGLERS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: STUART


Alarmed by increases in immigrant smuggling, the U.S. Border Patrol is using
radio and television ads to warn South Florida families about the deadly
practice.

"We want to drive home the dangers of trusting these smugglers with their loved
ones," said agent Mike Barone of the Pembroke Pines sector headquarters of the
Border Patrol. "Smugglers take too many risks trying to take easy money."

The anti-smuggling ads have been sent to about 200 radio and television stations
and cable systems in South Florida for broadcast as public service
announcements.

The message is safety, but the ads give a toll-free number - (877) 772-8146 - to
report suspected smuggling activities.

Keith Roberts, assistant chief of the Border Patrol station, said they had about
30 calls in October. "Two of them gave us significant leads we are now looking
into," he said.

About 80 percent of the estimated 3,000 immigrants landing on South Florida
shores every year are brought here by smugglers, the Border Patrol says.
Drownings are common.

A Cuban woman and her 4-year-old son are believed to have drowned Oct. 21 when a
smuggler's boat capsized off the coast of Cuba. Eight others, including two U.S.
citizens piloting the 23-foot boat, were rescued by Cuban authorities.

In the past six years, 140 immigrants have died off the South Florida coast, the
Border Patrol said.

"We want to warn these people that if they want a better life, there are better,
perhaps slower, ways to do it," Barone said.

The smugglers usually are hired by families in South Florida who are impatient
with the long waits to win U.S. visas for their relatives.

Some of the ads are sympathetic to the families' desires.

One ad says: "We all have family and friends we'd like to bring to the United
States. There are legal ways and there are wrong ways. Paying a smuggler is the
wrong way."

The ads, an idea of agent Larry Belotti, also have been sent to Radio Marti, the
U.S.-operated broadcast service to Cuba. Lucdel Harrigan, a minister for a
Haitian church in Fort Lauderdale, speaks in Creole in an ad targeting Haitian
families in South Florida.

The ads attempt to address the humanitarian side of the border enforcement, said
Mike Gilhooly, a spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"No matter what your position is on immigration issues, no one wants to see
these tragedies continue," Gilhooly said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              14 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 31, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATIONS ON HOLD FOR SOME IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Jeff Nesmith, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Because of flooding and other devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch in Nicaragua
and Honduras, the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Wednesday
that it will offer undocumented U.S. residents from the two countries temporary
relief from the threat of being deported.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said government officials in Nicaragua and
Honduras have emphasized that wages earned in the United States and sent home by
undocumented workers are critically important in dealing with economic
dislocation caused by the hurricane, which struck Central America in late
October and early November.

Hondurans and Nicaraguans who can show they were already living in the United
States on Tuesday can gain ''temporary protected status,'' which for 18 months
will allow them to live and work legally in this country, Meissner said.

She declined to say what might happen to the otherwise undocumented workers
after the expiration of their temporary status permits, which will cost $ 175
each.

''Our overall policy is one of rebuilding in the region,'' she said.
''Obviously, we will be assessing the situation on a regular basis.''

She said the temporary status was not extended to undocumented residents from
Guatemala and El Salvador, which also suffered damage because of Hurricane
Mitch, because more than 90 percent of people displaced by the storm lived in
either Honduras or Nicaragua.

Florida has about 33,100 undocumented Nicaraguans, 19,800 Hondurans, 9,000
Salvadorans and 9,300 Guatemalans, according to the INS.

The opportunity to switch status from illegal resident aliens to temporarily
legal residents is being offered to an estimated 90,000 Hondurans and about
60,000 Nicaraguans living in the United States without immigration papers, she
said.

The fee will cover the extra cost incurred by INS to process applications, she
said.

Even before the decision to offer them temporary status, Nicaraguans could apply
for permanent legal status under a different law, the Nicaraguan Adjustment and
Central American Relief Act, Meissner said.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              15 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 25, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

INS RAIDS ON FARMS NO WAY TO ENFORCE LAW

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 231 words


The May 14 article "Immigrants of convenience," about the Vidalia onion
industry's reliance on foreign labor, is poorly researched and misleading. The
assertion that I support illegal immigration is ludicrous. I recognize the
difficult jobs INS agents do, and I commend them on protecting our borders. The
1998 raids in southeast Georgia were different.

I objected to the manner in which the raids were conducted, at the height of
harvest time. The Immigration and Naturalization Service scared away many legal
workers in the process. The result of my involvement was that we agreed to a
constructive arrangement under which INS would suspend the raids and check
records in an orderly fashion. We endeavored to attack the real criminals -
unscrupulous labor contractors - before the problems occurred. So far, this
approach has worked.

It is important to note that INS enforcement contributed to many Georgia farmers
entering the legal H-2A guest worker program. Our problem now is the Department
of Labor, which operates this program on the mistaken idea that a ready, ample
domestic work force exists for Georgia farmers. That is why I am committed to
reforming the H-2A program to let needed workers enter the country legally,
enjoy protections under the law and help our farmers support their fragile rural
economies.

U.S. SEN. PAUL COVERDELL,

R-Ga.

Washington


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              16 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 23, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

HOUSE RUNNING OUT OF TIME FOR IMMIGRATION REFORMS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House will try to jam immigration reform into its last few days of
legislating before members leave to campaign for reelection.

House members would like to be able to tell voters that they increased the size
of the U.S. Border Patrol, raised penalties for illegal immigration and trimmed
taxpayers' spending on benefits for legal immigrants.

But those reforms remain tied to another measure that would allow states to deny
free education to children living illegally in the United States.

Opposition to that measure, sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., has kept
the whole package of immigration reform tied up in Congress for almost five
months.

With the legislative year set to end Friday - many think it will slip a week -
Republican leaders in the House met several times last week to discuss whether
to retain the schools measure, which faces certain defeat in the Senate and the
promise of a veto from President Clinton.

As of Friday, the Gallegly amendment was still part of the House bill that has
yet to be blended with the Senate immigration legislation.

The joint House-Senate committee that is supposed to combine the bills never met
last week, and a meeting this Tuesday is only a possibility, frustrating some
committee members.

"It is clear that the immigration bill would pass and be quickly signed into law
without the Gallegly amendment," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.

Her state is the most receptive to cutting the costs of illegal immigration, but
she opposes the idea of curtailing school for children.

"It is unconscionable to me that public officials would choose to scuttle
important legislation simply to prevent the president from signing a good bill
before Election Day," Feinstein said in a statement last week.

Clinton has not commented on other parts of the immigration legislation that are
considered too harsh by some Democratic lawmakers and immigrant advocates.

Most of those provisions deal with legal immigrants and include provisions that
would raise the income requirements for legal immigrants who want to sponsor
their relatives' immigration to the United States and set strict limits on the
use of public benefits.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              17 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 25, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

ALIEN POLITICAL NATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 402 words


Except for one thing, we could have had a new law doubling the size of the
Border Patrol and making it easier to catch and deport illegal aliens a month
ago. The one thing is shifting political priorities.

Reforming immigration was going to be one of the highlights of this Congress.
Then, when the whole issue began to look too difficult, attacking illegal
immigration became the more modest goal. Then, for some, defeating President
Clinton became the goal. Finally, preserving incumbents' seats became the goal.
And that's what Congress will have in mind this week if it passes immigration
reform.

Like welfare reform and defense spending, illegal immigration has turned into
legislation that has less to do with the needs of the country than with
elections. President Clinton signed a $ 256 billion defense spending bill that
is $ 11 billion more than he or the Pentagon wants. He said about it what he
said about welfare, in effect: "Isn't what I signed awful? Reelect me, and I'll
fix it."

The basics of the illegal immigration reform were agreed upon months ago, except
for one thing: a provision denying public education to the children of illegal
immigrants. The Supreme Court already ruled, in a Texas case, that it's
unconstitutional for a state to deny schooling to kids. But Californians voted
to make the Supreme Court say no again. Not to be outdone in mindless gestures,
House Republicans wanted to do the same thing.

Teachers, who would become immigration cops, don't see treating students as
suspects as a way to gain their confidence. Police think unsupervised youngsters
roaming loose all day is a formula for trouble. President Clinton said he would
veto the bill if it included the provision.

Some House Republicans thought it would be a neat trick to put the school ban in
the bill, make Mr. Clinton veto it and let him try to explain that in
California. Bob Dole, to his discredit, thought that idea was cool. The Senate
objected, though, and all work stopped for weeks.

When Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., a sponsor of the bill, said he might join a
filibuster if the school ban remained, his House pals began to have second
thoughts. But the clincher came when their polls told them that they, rather
than the president, would be blamed if the bill failed. That's why the bill is
moving again - as an incumbent-protection law, without the
president-embarrassment clause.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              18 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 12, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

THE CANDIDATES ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 232 words


President Clinton
Backs 'moderate' cut in legal immigration. Boosted budget for catching illegal
immigrants. Administration opposes making English the official language. Signed
welfare reform bill cutting Supplemental Security income and other public
benefits for legal immigrants. Opposed further benefit cuts in immigration bill,
as well as a measure that would have allowed states to deny free education to
children living illegally in the United States.
Quote: 'Legal immigration reform must be based upon principles that are
pro-family, pro-work, and pro-naturalization, retaining opportunities for family
reunification as the levels are lowered.'

Bob Dole
Backs 'modest, temporary' cut in legal immigration. Pushed for legislation
giving more money to states struggling with costs of jailing illegal immigrants.
Would deny most social services to illegal immigrants. Favors official English.
Supported legislation to allow states to deny free education to
illegal-immigrant children.
Quote: 'We should not have here a single illegal immigrant. (But) a family from
Mexico who arrived here this morning, legally, has as much right to the American
dream as the direct descendants of the founding fathers.'

Ross Perot
Favors emphasizing job skills and education among criteria for admitting
immigrants.
Quote: 'We don't want to build a wall around America.'

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 B&W) & GRAPHIC (B&W), 1. President Bill Clinton (mug), 2. Bob
Dole (mug), 3. Ross Perot (mug), 4. LINA LAWSON/Staff Artist, 1990s and has
dropped since. Here are the total legal immigrants admitted to the United
States, and the numbers who announced plans to live in Florida., Source:
Immigration and Naturalization Service

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              19 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 29, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

STATE: GIVE ILLEGALS' JOBS TO WELFARE RECIPIENTS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The state plans to refer welfare clients to jobs once held by deported
immigrants in a hybrid policy that links welfare reform with immigration
control.

Beginning next spring, federal immigration officers will notify the state
employment service about job positions opened by the deportation of undocumented
immigrants. In turn, the employment service will send the employers names of
welfare or unemployment clients qualified to fill the vacant jobs.

The federal-state policy was instituted two months ago in Virginia, where
officials say it could open 300 to 400 jobs a year for jobless Virginians.

"The reason Virginia is excited is that the wages paid to illegal immigrants are
between $ 7 to $ 8 an hour," said Chad Clark, special assistant to the
Virginia's secretary of health and human resources.

Clark said most of Virginia's illegal workers are in hotel, restaurant and
construction jobs.

In Florida, undocumented immigrants are mostly in agricultural regions where the
pay is minimum wage and the work is backbreaking and sweaty.

"I don't think it's going to work," said George Armas, a nurseryman in suburban
Boynton Beach who said he had not had success in finding employees through the
state job service. "Americans are spoiled. They are not used to the agrarian
life and they don't want to work in the sun all day."

Barbara Griffin, a Florida Department of Labor official who has worked in job
offices in Fort Pierce and Belle Glade, said legal residents will accept
agricultural jobs.

"We've placed thousands," Griffin said.

Whether it works or not, the concept of getting rid of illegal immigrants and
reducing welfare rolls at the same time hits on two of the state's major
priorities. In the past two years, Florida has accelerated the deportation of
immigrants in state prisons, established a hot line for employers to identify
legal workers and cracked down on illegal workers hired by state-paid
contractors.

Mark Schlackman, who is guiding the immigration measures as legal counsel to
Gov. Lawton Chiles, said he will be meeting with state welfare and employment
services officials to work out the details of the new policy.

He said the federal-state agreement should be worked out early next year.

Karen Woodall, who lobbies in Tallahassee on welfare and farm-worker issues,
said she is nervous about a policy that links welfare reform to jobs held by
undocumented immigrants.

"Jobs held by undocumented workers are not the higher-paying, benefit-related
jobs," Woodall said. "That's why people who are not documented take them."

Many of the jobs also are seasonal and don't offer the wages or security needed
to break from the welfare cycle, she said.

Even if the jobs fit, the policy is not likely to take thousands off welfare and
jobless rolls.

In Virginia, the state's agreement with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service is two months old but the INS has yet to submit job openings to state
officials. The INS expects to comply with its part of the agreement when it
begins enforcement raids on work sites after the first of the year, Clark said.

INS records show that 258 undocumented immigrants were removed from Virginia in
the budget year ending Sept. 30.

Florida removed 807 immigrants by deportations, but 505 of those were from jails
and prisons.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              20 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 8, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

INS SAYS 5 MILLION PEOPLE LIVING ILLEGALLY IN U.S.;
83% OF THOSE IN FLA., SIX OTHER STATES

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday that about 1.1 million
immigrants have become illegal residents of the United States during the past
four years, boosting the total illegal population to about 5 million.

Fully 40 percent of the undocumented population - 2 million - lives in
California, which together with Florida, Texas, New York, Illinois, New Jersey
and Arizona accounts for 83 percent of the illegal immigrants.

With the numbers, the INS issued statements Friday emphasizing that almost 80
percent of the illegal immigrants now living in the United States were here four
years ago, the last period for which the agency made an estimate. The INS on
Friday also revised its earlier count of illegal immigrants, saying new
information showed a bigger illegal population than was previously known.

Such disclaimers aren't likely to dampen congressional expectations of an
imminent and massive crackdown on illegal immigrants by the INS.

Congress gave the agency new border-enforcement tools in its big immigration
legislation last year and has more than doubled the INS budget over the past
four years to its current level of $ 3.1 billion annually, so the expectations
are high.

"Now that we have accurate estimates (of illegal immigrants) from the INS, it's
going to be a great way to measure the progress of the agency," said Allen Kay,
spokesman for U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, lead House sponsor of last year's
immigration bill. "We know how many illegal aliens are here at the end of the
year, and we can see how many they remove."

Smith wasn't surprised by the estimate of 5 million illegal immigrants, Kay
said, adding that the number is close to what Smith was counting last year while
working on the immigration legislation.

The INS signaled Friday that the numbers could change again as it refines its
tools for counting a group of people that are trying to evade detection.

The INS uses U.S. Census Bureau figures and U.S. Customs Bureau documents to
make its estimates of the illegal population, defined as people who have lived
in the United States without permission for a year or more.

Almost 60 percent of the illegal immigrants have slipped into the United States
illegally. About 40 percent of the illegal population arrived here legally, with
such documents as visitors' permits, and never left.

"These are people who could have had 30-day visitors' permit to go to Disney
World, and didn't go home," said INS spokeswoman Jana Evans. "They didn't just
stay another month, they established a residence."

The agency's first estimate of the numbers of illegal immigrants was released in
1994 and reported the suspected illegal population for October 1992 at 3.4
million. The latest estimate, for October 1996, adds 500,000 to the 3.4 million
illegal immigrants thought to be in the United States in October 1992.

Even the current numbers have a lot of leeway: the INS said its estimate of 5
million illegal immigrants could be off by 400,000 - either way.

In Texas, the range is 70,000, meaning the total number of illegal immigrants
could be as low as 630,000 or as high as 770,000.

In comparison, the INS counted 825,000 legal immigrants in Texas last April,
more than half of whom, or 483,000, are eligible for U.S. citizenship.

The overwhelming majority of the illegal immigrants counted by INS came from
Mexico - an estimated 2.7 million. The second most common country of origin was
El Salvador, with 335,000 immigrants, followed by Guatemala, Canada and Haiti,
each of which had 105,000 or more citizens living illegally in the U.S.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              21 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 11, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

INS TOUTS INCREASE IN DEPORTATIONS AS PROOF OF WORK

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Almost 40,000 illegal immigrants were removed from the interior of the United
States in the last three months of 1996, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service said Monday, touting the number as a symbol of the agency's increasing
proficiency.

The number is also a symbol of the INS' increasing attention to the details that
will keep Congress happy as the agency uses its record-setting $ 3.1 billion
budget to put new rules into effect.

The first congressional look at the INS' progress is scheduled for today during
a hearing before the Immigration Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee
led by U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas. Smith was the lead House sponsor of the
immigration reforms passed last year.

Smith will be examining the "relatively paltry level" of immigrant removals in
light of the INS announcement Friday that about 5 million people are now living
illegally in the U.S., according to Smith spokesman Allen Kay.

The stepped-up removals by the INS are encouraging, Kay said, but Smith is
looking for more based on the "considerable new muscle" in the new immigration
laws and the size of the U.S. illegal population.

"The measuring stick will always be the 5 million," Kay said.

INS officials will tell Smith that 18,988 immigrants were removed under court
order during the last three months of 1996 - a 24 percent increase from the same
period a year earlier. The numbers do not include the 230,141 illegal immigrants
who were apprehended at the U.S. border with Mexico in the last three months of
1996.

For the first time, the INS is also counting the illegal immigrants who agree to
leave the United States without court proceedings.

In the last three months of 1996, 20,886 illegal immigrants were removed from
the interior of the United States, INS general counsel David Martin said Monday.
At the border, 223,059 illegal immigrants left voluntarily.

The INS is counting the voluntary departures through a self-described "new
tracking system," which entails computerizing the records that have been kept
for years by INS agents who deal with illegal immigrants in the interior of the
United States.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              22 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 13, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL ARRESTS BRING FEAR OF MASS DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: MARCIA GELBART

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 728 words


Gustavo Rivas was on his way to pick oranges Monday when U.S. Border Patrol
agents raided the bus he was riding. Trying to escape, he scraped his elbow and
leg before he was finally arrested.

To the agents, it was just business as usual.

But to immigrant communities in Palm Beach and surrounding counties, the arrest
last week of Rivas, who is Guatemalan, and 253 other undocumented workers is
evidence of what they perceive as stepped-up deportation efforts under a new
immigration law.

"We were scared," said Rivas, who jumped off the bus and was running toward a
ditch when he was caught. A married father of four, he hasn't seen his family
since he left Guatemala for Florida three years ago. Now, however, Border Patrol
agents said he must return to his homeland by April 25.

"We're expecting mass deportations," said Jaime Zapata, executive director of
the Guatemalan-Maya Center, a local support agency. "The community is feeling
more persecuted and is really fearing going to work."

Border Patrol agents deny they've made more arrests since the law took effect
April 1, or that more illegal immigrants will be deported than before. "No one
has told us to step up efforts, and I don't think the (Immigration and
Naturalization Service) has the resources to do it," said Art Bullock, the
agent-in-charge of the Border Patrol office in West Palm Beach. The office
oversees seven counties: Glades, Hendry, Highland, Martin, Okeechobee, Palm
Beach and St. Lucie.

West Palm Beach agents made 1,113 arrests for the six-month period from November
1996 to March 1997, and 937 for the same period the year before, according to
Bullock. In budget year 1996, the office averaged 159 arrests a month.

But alarm in the migrant communities has spread following last week's 254
arrests, which coincided with implementation of the new law. Border Patrol
agents haven't apprehended that many illegal workers in any month since at least
October 1995.

Passed last September, the 1996 Immigration Reform Act streamlines procedures
for deportation to make it more difficult for illegal immigrants to claim
political asylum or win temporary status. Under the new law, anyone found
residing in the United States illegally for more than six months could be barred
from reentering the country for three to 10 years.

Immigration lawyers are concerned over the treatment of those arrested.

For example, of those apprehended in last week's three-day operation, 161 were
Mexicans who were all sent to Mexico within 24 hours of their arrests. The
next-largest group seized - 69 Guatemalans, including Rivas - have until April
25 to leave the United States.

The difference is one of logistics, Bullock said. Mexicans can easily be
deported by bus while Guatemalans would have to wait at least several days, and
there is no place to keep them, he explained.

Bullock also said many of the Guatemalans could not be immediately removed
because they had family ties or significant equities such as a home or a car.
"We just don't rip them away from their property," he said.

The matter is further complicated by fears that the current crime and poverty in
Guatemala wouldn't permit those facing deportation to return safely. Guatemala's
long civil war ended last year with the signing of a peace accord, but
immigration groups argue that political violence is ongoing. "Now that the war
is allegedly over with, I think the (INS) is trying to come up with a policy of
how to deal with this in the county and elsewhere," Bullock said.

But Rebecca Sharpless, a staff attorney with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center, said the different treatment could "lead one to suppose that Mexicans
aren't being released and given voluntary departure, but that Guatemalans are
given the option to leave under their own accord."

"The INS is using their discretion in a way that discriminates against
Mexicans," she said.

Rowdy Adams, the agent-in-charge of the U.S. Border Patrol station at Pembroke
Pines in Broward County, rejected charges of discrimination. "We try to balance
what we can do with what the deportation people can do," he said.

What the new law does, he said is "make it easier for us to get rid of some
people - it doesn't matter how you got here, this is how we're going to get rid
of you."

Staff writer Joel Engelhardt contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Gustavo Rivas (mug)

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              23 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  April 18, 1997, Friday Correction Appended
                                  FINAL EDITION

JUDGE CRITICIZED FOR DETAINING FOREIGN-LOOKING DEFENDANTS

BYLINE: CHRISTINE STAPLETON, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Jose Santos figured he had come to court on April 11 for his arraignment on a
charge of selling cocaine.

It should have been a routine hearing. The accused pleads guilty or not guilty
and tells the judge whether he has enough money to hire a lawyer. Santos, a
migrant farm worker who had been released on bond shortly after he was arrested
a month earlier, had no criminal record, no lawyer and no idea he was about to
become the center of a legal debate about the rights of illegal immigrants
charged with crimes.

By the end of the brief hearing Santos was back in handcuffs, headed for jail
and his public defenders were accusing Circuit Judge Edward Garrison of racism
for illegally detaining an illegal immigrant.

After an emergency appeal, the 4th District Court of Appeal ordered Garrison on
Wednesday to hold an immediate bond hearing. Garrison will decide this morning
whether Santos should be freed.

It's not the first time Garrison has been criticized for his handling of illegal
immigrants. In 1988 Garrison ordered Roberto Lopez, a suspected illegal
immigrant, held in jail for a week without bail so federal immigration officials
could be notified. Lopez had been charged with carrying an open beer.

At the time attorneys with the public defender's office claimed Garrison had
detained 18 defendants with Spanish surnames without bail because Garrison was
unsure of their immigration status. Garrison said it was his duty to hold
illegal immigrants until federal officials could be notified. A judge overturned
Garrison's bail denial for Lopez.

Today, public defenders assigned to Garrison's courtroom say he continues the
practice of questioning the immigration status of foreign-looking defendants,
especially Hispanics, and basing his decision to set bail on their residency
status.

"It may look like Latin bashing but it's not," Garrison said Thursday. "It
wouldn't matter if they were Russian, Chinese or Czechoslovakian. Either we have
immigration laws or we don't."

Santos, 19, of Lake Worth, was arrested on March 8 after an undercover Lake
Worth police officer said a confidential informant arranged to buy $ 100 worth
of crack cocaine from Santos. At a hearing the next day, County Judge Cory
Ciklin set Santos' bail at $ 1,000. Ciklin did not ask and prosecutors did not
inquire about Santos' immigration status. Santos' sister-in-law posted the bond
on March 9.

In an emergency appeal filed by Assistant Public Defender Margaret Good Ernest
shortly after Santos was taken back to the jail on Friday, Good Ernest claimed
that Garrison not only violated court rules that require a minimum three-hour
notice before a bail hearing but also violated a federal law about how and when
illegal immigrants can be detained.

The attorney general's office, which normally challenges appeals, agreed.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

CORRECTION:
UNPUBLISHED CORRECTION: The correct spelling is Margaret Good-Earnest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W, 1. (C) Edward Garrison (mug) 2. (B&W) Jose Santos (mug

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              24 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 14, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

INS SAYS IT'S DEPORTING MORE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of illegal immigrants removed from the interior of the United States
rose again in the first three months of this year, continuing a trend that
started six months ago when the Immigration and Naturalization Service received
more money and broader powers under the new immigration law.

The INS announced Tuesday that it returned 40,822 illegal immigrants to their
home countries between January and March - a total that includes people who
departed under court order and those who agreed to leave without court
proceedings. The total does not include illegal immigrants turned back or
deported at the U.S. borders.

In the INS' eastern region, which stretches from Boston to Miami, court-ordered
deportations were up 42.8 percent between January and March, from 2,480 a year
earlier to 3,541. Within the eastern region, the Miami INS district, which
includes Palm Beach County, reported that deportations almost doubled, from 355
last year to 695 this year.

Across the United States, the court-ordered removals of 22,595 illegal
immigrants were 28 percent higher than the first three months of 1996. The INS
began counting voluntary departures only this year.

INS officials are pleased with the results: "We are on track to achieve our goal
of removing a record 93,000 illegal aliens this year," said INS General Counsel
David Martin.

The reports come at a critical time for the INS. The agency is under pressure
from Congress to show results under the new law and to clean up procedures that
allowed almost 200,000 immigrants to become U.S. citizens without comparisons of
their fingerprints to criminal records. Also, the INS announced in February that
the number of people living illegally in the United States hit 5 million.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              25 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 7, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

CAUGHT WITHOUT AN OAR

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 474 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is puffed with pride for setting a
new record in deportations already this year. Preliminary figures show that
75,743 illegal immigrants had been deported by June 30. That's nearly 7,000 more
than in all of 1996. The government's year will end on Sept. 30.

Such efficiency comes from the new INS agents sought by President Clinton and
authorized by Congress. Another factor is the set of new laws allowing immediate
rejection of people who arrive at ports and airports without required documents.
The increased numbers also owes something to pressure from Washington to show
results.

One result is that Berthony Dumas was taken into custody for deportation to
Haiti when he reported to the INS office in Miami Aug. 30, leaving his wife and
two children in suburban Lantana without a breadwinner. As a deportee, Mr. Dumas
will not be able to return for five years. His wife, Alicia, is a legal
immigrant who plans to apply for citizenship in two months and could expect to
receive it in about six months. The children, born here, are citizens.

Mr. Dumas was here illegally. He followed Alicia in 1992, but since he did not
have an immigration visa, his only hope of staying was to ask for political
asylum. The request was denied, but he stayed, married, got a job as a security
guard and worried until he became one of 100 people a week who receive
deportation letters these days.

From the policy heights of Congress and Washington think tanks, it is clear that
entirely too many illegals are here, that asylum requests are mostly shams and
that the practice of releasing bogus asylum seekers while their paperwork
shuffles through the bureaucracy added to the problem. That practice, in effect
in 1992, has been changed. If he came today, Mr. Dumas would be turned away at
the border.

The changes in policy are good and sane. But down on the ground they leave a
family fatherless. If Mr. Dumas had consulted a lawyer, he might have been
advised to return to Haiti voluntarily when he got the letter. Then he wouldn't
be a deportee and could return, on his wife's petition, when she gets her
citizenship. As an illegal immigrant working six or seven days a week with all
the overtime he could get, he didn't keep up with policy, nor could his family
afford his six-month stay abroad.

The INS can still parole him so he can leave voluntarily. The agency did that in
June for a Haitian woman from West Palm Beach. But she was married to a U.S.
citizen, not a legal immigrant.

Mr. Dumas was the beneficiary of loose policy, and now he is a loser to a tight
policy. But he and his family are not policies. They are just four people caught
in a small boat when the political tide began to run against one of them. The
country will be better off when those tides become predictable.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              26 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 3, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

48 UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS ARRESTED AS AGENTS RAID BAR IN LAKE PARK

BYLINE: Joe Brogan; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: LAKE PARK


Authorities arrested 48 undocumented aliens Saturday night during a raid at the
Los Compadres bar at 1128 U.S. 1.

All but eight were sent to federal holding facilities in Bradenton and Miami for
immigration hearings, Border Patrol agent in charge Art Bullock said Monday. He
said the eight released were given notices to appear in court later because they
had dependents.

Besides the group - 33 Guatemalans, 14 Mexicans and one Honduran - authorities
found one gun, assorted knives and a pair of brass knuckles on the floor,
Bullock said. Authorities also recovered small amounts of cocaine and marijuana,
he said.

More than 100 people were in the bar when police entered, said Sgt. Mike Johnson
of Lake Park police, which joined with Border Patrol, state beverage agents,
Palm Beach County sheriff's detectives and Palm Beach Gardens police.

Johnson said police had been called to the bar more than 50 times in the last
year for assaults, shots fired and many other problems.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              27 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 18, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

BLOCK OFF THE BORDERS, TURN ON THE MONEY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 739 words


The agencies that are supposed to be on the lookout for illegal immigrants too
often just look the other way. The responsibility - and the failure - are
federal. States such as Florida suffer the consequences.

In a series that concluded Monday, Post reporter Gary Kane documented porous
border defenses, attitudes that cripple attempts to prosecute smugglers,
policies that prevent sanctions against those who employ illegal workers and a
budget that shortchanges Florida. The federal government's lack of concern stems
from its lack of accountability.

In 1994, Gov. Chiles sued, seeking the estimated $ 1.5 billion he claimed the
state had spent on health care, education and other services for illegal
immigrants. Washington, Gov. Chiles argued, either should enforce its
immigration laws or reimburse the state. Several other states also sued, but the
courts ruled that the economic burden of immigration was a political, not a
legal, question.

Five years ago, Gov. Chiles estimated there were 345,000 illegal immigrants in
Florida. By 1997, the latest estimate available, there were 350,000. Nationwide,
the estimate is 5.5 million. Florida also is home to hundreds of thousands of
legal immigrants from Cuba, Haiti and Central America. Nearly 17 percent of
Florida residents are foreign-born, compared with less than 10 percent
nationally.

Some are political refugees. Florida can be proud to offer a haven, but even the
most politically correct must admit there have been significant cultural impacts
in addition to the economic issues. Anyone who doubts it should check with
school districts trying to teach non-English speakers and health departments
dealing with populations ignorant or suspicious of family-planning or
disease-prevention basics, such as immunization.

Just as Florida was powerless to stop the Mariel boatlift of 1980, Florida is
powerless to enforce current immigration laws. So, it seems, is the federal
government. The Border Patrol has added no agents to its Miami office in the
past 10 years. Compared with other states, federal prosecutors in Florida press
charges in a lower percentage of suspected smuggling cases. And agents have
virtually suspended surprise inspections that would identify illegal workers and
the employers who hire them. Though everyone acknowledges that illegal
immigrants staff most of the agricultural operations in the state, none of the
contractors who supply labor has been fined for hiring illegal workers in the
past decade.

Florida is not alone in that regard. The Washington Post reported this week that
the Immigration and Naturalization Service is abandoning raids on workplaces
nationwide. Instead, the INS will focus of finding and deporting illegal
immigrants with criminal records. In effect, the INS is giving a free pass to
people who elude border security and also to those who come into the country
legally, then overstay their visas - a category that includes an estimated 40
percent of the 275,000 illegal immigrants who end up in America annually.

As U.S. District Judge Edward Davis said when he dismissed Gov. Chiles' lawsuit,
politics causes much of this mess. Unions, lawyers, civil libertarians and other
Democratic constituents don't want the INS going after workers. Farm and
manufacturing interests join hotel and restaurant chains in begging their
Republican friends to keep the INS from fining employers and disrupting their
low-wage, low-benefits work force. Congress can accommodate both without
worrying about its budget.

Congress does spend money on the Border Patrol, doubling the number of agents to
8,000 in the past five years. But nearly all the added agents go west, where the
illegal immigration problem is worse, and there is one less political
consideration: the status of Cuban refugees.

Until recently, Cuban refugees could not be returned. Now, those stopped at sea
can be sent back. Once ashore, however, they can stay. Again, the policy
granting special status to Cubans is a federal prerogative.

Anger at immigrants, resulting in useless and counterproductive steps such as
English-only laws and ballot initiatives to deny public services to illegals, is
misplaced. The anger over what Judge Davis called a "desperate need for relief"
is properly directed at Washington, and at a Florida congressional delegation
that plays immigration politics of all kinds while the state's people pay the
bills.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
PURSUIT AND PUNISHMENT

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              28 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 1, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY A LICENSE TO KILL ALL LOGIC

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 550 words


America's loopy, inconsistent immigration policy was on full display in South
Florida Tuesday. Just off Miami Beach, Coast Guard officers looked like
Birmingham police during the civil rights era as they used water cannons to keep
six Cuban rafters from reaching the shore. In Palm Beach County, illegal
immigrants flocked to driver license offices to get the precious document before
new, tougher laws take effect today.

Take the second example first. Why, you might wonder, have people who are in
this country illegally been able to get a legal document so easily? Because
Florida makes it a breeze for anyone to get a license, including those who can't
see past the windshield. Fortunately, Gov. Bush recently signed legislation that
will require applicants to show identification that most illegal immigrants
don't have.

And why, since the story was in the paper, didn't the Border Patrol simply drop
by the driver license office and pick up the illegals? As The Post reported more
than a year ago, the number of Border Patrol agents in this part of the country
hasn't increased in 10 years, even though immigration officials believe as many
as 12,000 people enter the state illegally each year on smugglers' boats or
homemade vessels. On Wednesday, agents went to the Lantana driver license office
and issued 14 notices to appear for hearings but detained no one.

If officials basically ignored lawbreaking in that instance, they went to the
other extreme in Miami-Dade County. The Coast Guard and the rafters know the
rules: if a Cuban touches the shore, he gets to stay; if he doesn't, he goes
back. It is called, no joke, the "wet foot" policy.

Tuesday's scene was a chapter out of a Carl Hiaasen novel. Coast Guard officers
used water hoses and, reportedly, even pepper spray to keep the rafts in deep
water. Immigration officials said the rafters were wielding oars equipped with
nails. On the beach and around Miami, Cuban-Americans cheered on the rafters and
blocked streets. Spanish-language radio provided the usual unbiased commentary
about Fidel Castro.

It would be easy, quick and misplaced to blame the Coast Guard officers. They
are ordered to enforce an unworkable political policy that President Clinton
imposed because his administration, like all the others since 1959, has been
unwilling to consider opening diplomatic relations with Cuba. On Tuesday, the
White House cowardly referred all phone calls to the Coast Guard station in
Miami.

Mr. Clinton repeatedly has sandbagged Florida on immigration from the island. In
1994, after 35,000 Cubans had come in one summer, the president agreed to return
about 20,000 detained at Guantanamo Naval Base. Then he let in 6,000 to 8,000.
Then he let in all of them, contradicting his policy of allowing 20,000 to
immigrate each year by applying for visas in Cuba. Meanwhile, Washington
provides no money to states for illegal immigrants.

Those six rafters are here illegally. There would be no need for Tuesday's
craziness if the United States kept to this rule: deport illegals unless they
meet clear conditions spelled out by Congress. A sensible immigration policy
includes exceptions for people whose politics place them in jeopardy at home. A
sensible immigration policy also includes control of the borders.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              29 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 10, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'ILLEGALS' NOW WELCOME, BUT U.S. WORKERS LOSE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 494 words


Economic theory ignores CEO pay but holds that if the hourly employees get more
of the pie, the pie stops growing.

Early on in the Clinton administration, the government beefed up the Border
Patrol to block what were called hordes of illegal immigrants. Today, it's live
and let live because illegals are good for the economy - from some perspectives.

We still strictly patrol the border under Operation Gatekeeper. Three illegals
from Mexico died Monday in a winter storm that hit the mountains east of San
Diego. About 30 more were rescued to be deported. But those who make it in can
go to their jobs without fear of sweeps by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The INS shows interest only if they break a law.

As the economy came back from the brief recession at the start of the 1990s,
taking back the border became a hot political issue. Pat Buchanan made a
campaign issue out of it when he sought the GOP presidential nomination in 1996.
The government already was moving. The United States deported an all-time high
of 22,000 aliens just for being illegal in 1997. Then the effort turned around.
In 1999, 8,600 were deported, 4,000 fewer than in 1993.

What happened is that the unemployment rate, which stood at 7.5 percent when the
crackdown began, fell below 5 percent in July 1997. Profits rose; businesses
hired. The INS backed off just as economists such as Federal Reserve Chairman
Alan Greenspan and business leaders began worrying aloud about inflation.

When firms struggle to find workers, they have to raise pay. Higher wages turn
into higher prices, which turns into inflation. Economic theory ignores
executive pay but holds that if workers get bigger slices of a growing pie, the
pie stops growing.

Today, unemployment stands at 4.1 percent, which means it should be hard to fill
job slots. But the consumer price index is 0.2 percent. So where is the
inflation? Growth in disposable income (pay) barely exceeded inflation for the
past four years to make up ground it lost during the four prior years. Anyone
who wonders where the pressure to force up wages went may look to the INS
policy.

An estimated 5 million illegals were here in 1996, the last time the INS tried
to guess. They were arriving at the supposed rate of 275,000 a year. People who
aren't supposed to be here help to pay for an economy from which higher-income
Americans are benefiting mightily. The foreign benefactors are better off than
they would be back home, which, in many cases, is an undeclared war zone. They
are willing to risk their lives for $ 5.15 an hour. The three who died Monday
brought the death toll on the border to 16 this year alone.

Their presence and working conditions won't get attention in the political
campaigns this year. Even less likely to be mentioned is that when the economy
turns down, and unemployment rises, the illegals will be rediscovered, and an
outcry for their deportation suddenly will begin.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              30 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 5, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

LACK OF IQ AT THE INS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 394 words


There's dumb, there's dumber, and then there's the great Krome cleanup.

Seven members of the Congressional Task Force on Immigration Reform visited the
Krome Service Processing Center near Miami last year as part of a fact-finding
tour of immigration facilities. Krome is a detention center for illegal aliens.
They saw a clean, smoothly functioning operation coping with ease with South
Florida's undocumented arrivals. At Miami International Airport, they saw swift,
efficient processing of international air travelers.

What they didn't know, until the Immigration and Naturalization Service
investigated a union complaint, was that more than 100 detainees had been
shipped out of Krome before the congressmen arrived and that the airport staff
had been nearly doubled, with staffers working on overtime. The order the
delegation saw was not the norm but an artificial alternative to the prevailing
chaos at both facilities.

Nine criminals were among the 59 Krome detainees put on the streets. Another 61
were sent to other INS facilities, and 19 were placed in jails. At the airport,
criminal aliens were taken out of holding cells and allowed to sit in the
waiting room during the visit.

U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, a West Palm Beach Republican who was on the tour, was
quick to see nefarious doings in the White House. "This is another problem that
the Clinton administration is going to have to explain," Rep. Foley said,
suggesting that the moves were made to make the president look good in a state
he needs to carry this year.

That's a stretch. It would make just as much sense to argue that the White House
would make points by showing the delegation how overwhelmed INS is and how badly
it needs for those congressional Republicans to loosen the federal purse
strings.

The most likely explanation is the one borne out by the INS inquiry, that some
bureaucrats thought the stunt would make them look good. It's the same mentality
that leads to such things as painted grass at military bases due for inspection.

The inquiry recommends that 13 people be either fired or suspended. INS
Commissioner Doris Meissner already has suspended Miami District Director Walter
Cadman and his immediate supervisor pending further action by the Justice
Department. It's hard to know what Justice can do, unless stupidity has been
made a federal crime.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              31 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 10, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

INS BEGINS RELEASING LONG-TERM DETAINEES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 373 words


Immigration officials Friday announced the release of 39 detainees with criminal
backgrounds who had been in custody for up to three years at Krome Detention
Center west of Miami and in leased jails across the state.

"We are going to start seeing releases of some of our long-term detainees, not
necessarily in masses,'' said Maria Elena Garcia, a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami.

The immigrants - the largest group released since a 1996 law filled detention
centers with non-citizens convicted of crimes - are not considered dangerous,
Garcia said. They were chosen from among 123 detainees whose cases were reviewed
by INS.

More than 1,100 people are in INS custody at Krome and in county jails in
Florida. The number includes 430 criminal aliens who face indefinite stays
because they cannot be deported. INS Commissioner Doris Meissner in April
ordered reviews of their cases, citing the "difficult issue" of long-term
detention.

"A number have served more time in detention than they did for their underlying
crime," said Cheryl Little, an immigration attorney in Miami. The INS is running
out of space for detainees, she said.

Little said she visited four jails in Central Florida this week and found
immigrants in cramped quarters with inadequate access to medical care.

"I saw a 75-year-old man who committed a crime 13 years ago and had been
sentenced to probation," Little said. "You have to wonder."

A law passed by Congress in 1996 allows the INS to detain and deport
non-citizens convicted of certain crimes, including some misdemeanors. That law
has been challenged, and a federal appeals court has been ordered to consider
the case of an Atlanta man who emigrated from Haiti and whether it's
unconstitutional to detain him indefinitely.

The immigrants released in the past few days were not identified, but Garcia
said many were from Cuba, which has no repatriation agreement with the United
States. Those released must report their addresses to the immigration court.

Five Cubans were released from Krome in May after their families staged a hunger
strike outside the 500-bed center to protest their detentions. Another group
plans a demonstration today.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              32 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 15, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS HELD FOR PAST CRIMES TO BE FREED UNDER POLICY SWITCH

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 311 words


Hundreds of immigrants detained for crimes they committed long ago soon will be
released because of recent federal court rulings, immigration officials said
Wednesday.

More than 13 courts have ruled that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service erred by re-jailing immigrants who had already served time in jail for
old crimes.

"We realized that the courts are giving us greater flexibility in interpreting
mandatory detention requirements," said INS spokesman Dan Kane.

Under a law passed in 1996, the immigration agency has detained any immigrant
who was convicted of a crime that is considered a deportable offense.

The policy reversal means that about 870 noncitizens held in INS detention
centers across the country are eligible for release. About 200 of those are held
at Krome Detention Center near Miami and in Florida jails leased to the INS.

The policy of jailing legal residents for old crimes brought protests and
lawsuits from immigrant advocates who considered it unfair and a
misinterpretation of the 1996 law passed by Congress.

Detention meant a virtual life sentence for Cubans and immigrants from other
countries that would not take them back.

Others claimed the policy was unconstitutional because it was retroactive to
crimes before the 1996 law.

Under the revised policy announced this week, only immigrants released from jail
after Oct. 9, 1998 - when the INS imposed the detention policy - would be
automatically detained by INS.

The 870 immigrants being released on bond could still be deported, Kane said.

He said they will return before an immigration judge who will decide if their
crimes were serious enough for deportation.

Immigrants will not be released if the INS considers them a flight risk or a
danger to the community, said Maria Elena Garcia, a spokeswoman for the Miami
District INS office.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              33 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 3, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS TO PROTEST TREATMENT OF DETAINEES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 392 words


When Ralph Richardson faces a deportation judge today at Krome Detention Center
near Miami, he won't be alone.

Outside the gates, hundreds of Haitians are scheduled to rally to protest the
treatment of Richardson and 165 other Haitian-born detainees at the center who
could be deported for past criminal convictions.

''I've seen other detainees walk out of here on a red carpet,'' Richardson, 33,
said in a telephone interview Thursday. He said Cuban-born detainees convicted
of more serious crimes win release because of pressure from Miami's Cuban
community.

Richardson has been held for nearly two years because of a 1990 drug arrest in
Pensacola for which he served two years in prison.

Rally organizer Marleine Bastien of Miami said she's asking that Congress repeal
a 1996 law that has sent thousands of immigrants to detention because of past
crimes.

''There's been an effort to deport Haitians who have been living here for years
because they committed some kind of minor offenses when they were young,'' said
Bastien, president of the Haitian Women of Miami. ''The law is anti-immigrant
and mainly anti-black and anti-Haitian.''

The Immigration and Naturalization Service denies discriminating against
Haitians.

''Each case is handled on its own merits, regardless of what the nationality
is,'' said Maria Elena Garcia, an INS spokeswoman in Miami. She said immigrants
are not released if they committed serious crimes and if they were, they would
probably not show up for deportation hearings.

Bastien said Richardson was a law-abiding family man when he was detained in
1997, after making a weekend trip to Haiti with his mother. Richardson, from
Atlanta, says the detention has cost him his custodial business and left his
family without support.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which operates Krome, promised
in July that he would be released if he posted $ 25,000 bail, Richardson said.
He said he raised the money, but the INS reneged, saying he was ineligible
because they discovered he had a second conviction, a 15-year-old marijuana
possession charge.

''I made a big mistake in my past and I'm sorry for it,'' Richardson said. ''But
now it's time for a resolution.''

Richardson said he left Haiti when he was 2 years old and that deportation would
send him to a country he doesn't know.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Ralph Richardson (mug

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              34 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 9, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

LANDLORDS, NOT TENANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 375 words


Deterioration of Pinewood Avenue will not be reversed by stigmatizing the
victims. The problem is landlords, not tenants.

West Palm Beach City Commissioner Howard Warshauer, whose district includes
Pinewood, insists that his primary concern is with "the entire situation of how
we're handling absentee landlords." He is disappointed with results under the
city's 4-year-old rental-licensing law, which requires local agents and allows
licenses to be suspended.

But the commissioner's June 8 memo to Mayor Nancy Graham says "this area has
become our little Guatemala" and the city should "bring in border patrol and
customs to inspect with the code inspectors." The implication, intended or not,
is that the area is run-down because illegal immigrants from Guatemala are
living there.

Advocates for the immigrants question the legality of police sweeps. "To suggest
that being a Guatemalan makes them an illegal immigrant is a violation of the
civil rights of these individuals," said Ruben Chavez of the Farmworkers
Coordinating Council. Jaime Zapata of the Guatemalan-Maya Center said that only
a third of the Guatemalans who visit his office are here illegally.

Even if Guatemalans are thrown out of Pinewood Avenue homes, the slumlords will
just rent to other people who can afford nothing better, and the blight will
continue. Pinewood has had blight since well before the Guatemalans moved in.
The worst area, essentially the west side of the street between 30th and 36th
streets, is next to the Florida East Coast Railway, making it problematical
whether those properties even should be residential.

Mr. Warshauer believes the rental-license law gives the city the power it needs
to combat blight ("It can be a very effective tool"), but he's open to
suggestions for improvements.

Mr. Warshauer says he did not intend to target Guatemalans: "I've been one of
the few leaders in this neighborhood that have worked with them." But, he added,
illegal immigrants should not be allowed to live on Pinewood.

Whatever he may have meant, his choice of words was unfortunate. In any case,
once illegal immigrants are in the country, they have to live somewhere. Kicking
them out of slums does nothing for either them or the slums.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              35 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 27, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. BEEFS UP MEXICO BORDER ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: EUNICE MOSCOSO

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sixteen special assistant U.S. Attorneys will be assigned to help fight illegal
immigration along the U.S.-Mexico border states, Department of Justice officials
said Friday.

"Deported aliens who return to the U.S. will face these additional prosecutors
whose job is to put them ... behind bars," said Alan Bersin, the Attorney
General's special representative for the Southwest border.

The prosecutors will focus on illegal aliens who return to the United States
after removal - including many who were deported after landing in state prisons.

"These are not shoplifters ... these are people who qualify as aggravated
felons, which means that they've committed two or more felonies or one violent
felony," Bersin said.

Aliens deported or excluded from the U.S. are barred from immediately returning
to the country. Violating that prohibition is prosecutable as a felony.

Six of the prosecutors will be assigned to Texas, five to California, three to
Arizona and two to New Mexico.

In addition to cases involving returning criminal aliens, the prosecutors will
help the INS with cases of alien smugglers and fraudulent document traffickers.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              36 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 2, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE ABLE TO ACCESS IMMIGRANT DATABASE

BYLINE: LARRY KAPLOW

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Police in Palm Beach County have more powers to track down illegal aliens who
commit crimes starting this month, under an agreement between the state and the
federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Starting in the next few days, county law enforcement agencies will start
tapping into six INS databases for information on suspects who may be in the
United States illegally.

It means they could call in INS to deport or prosecute inmates held on local
crimes. Also, the information on the computer system could help with
investigations, providing previous crimes and addresses for the suspects.

The INS-police linkup is part of a program that debuts in Palm Beach County and
will be extended throughout Florida early next year.

Gov. Lawton Chiles and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner unveiled the program as
part of three initiatives aimed at stemming illegal immigration.

They also announced that Florida hotels and motels can join in a computer
network that will tell them within a minute if a prospective employee is here
illegally.

The third move, also aimed at reducing the attraction Florida jobs have for
illegal immigrants will let the state cancel contracts with companies that are
caught using illegal immigrant labor. That will start in October.

Chiles said new programs are aimed at protecting jobs for Floridians and legal
residents.

Local law enforcement officials have been receiving training on the INS computer
system and plan to start using it within days.

"It will help with investigations because of the vast amount of information on
those databases," said Dena Peterson, West Palm Beach police spokesperson.

Bill Griffen, director of the INS Law Enforcement Center in Vermont, said the
information is meant to be used for suspects arrested in serious crimes, from
burglaries to murders.

Local police officials said they would not use it on the road for minor
offenses, in part because it takes about 20 minutes to get a computer response.

Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office Capt. Robert Mosley said inmates in the jail
will be referred to the INS system when they have foreign birthplaces and have
committed serious crimes.

Griffen said the system could give law enforcement more options for
prosecutions.

For example, an INS check may show an inmate has been previously deported and
returned to the United States. The federal penalty for that is often as much as
four years in prison, which could be more than the local charges against the
inmate would bring.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              37 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 18, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

TOO MANY MOUSE HOLES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 400 words


While Congress finds more work for the Border Patrol in the immigration bill, a
model program to identify and deport illegal immigrants is stuck in Palm Beach
County. At its peak, the program in one year nailed 173 people arrested for
local crimes who had either entered the country illegally or were deportable
because of prior convictions.

To do that takes regular visits by a Border Patrol officer to the Palm Beach
County Jail. State Attorney Barry Krischer's office can identify deportable
suspects and defendants, but only federal authority can start deportation
action. Mr. Krischer says a bonus is that Washington pays the county $ 75 a day
for holding its prisoners. But the purpose of the program is to keep criminals
from slipping through the crack between federal and local jurisdictions.

The Criminal Alien Identification/Removal program, invented by Mr. Krischer's
office and the Border Patrol in 1993, worked so well and was so obviously
sensible that it became part of an agreement between Gov. Chiles' administration
and Attorney General Janet Reno, announced last May. But by then, Border Patrol
visits to the county jail had become a sometime thing. The eight-county Border
Patrol district, based in Miami, was swamped with illegal Haitian and Cuban
immigrants in 1994. Since then, agents have to get to the jail on an
as-time-permits basis.

Mark Schlakman, the governor's liaison with Washington on immigration policy,
said staff shortages can be overcome. Another part of the state/federal pact,
which allows direct deportation from state prisons, led to the departure of its
398th illegal immigrant this month. Mr. Schlakman said new cooperative ideas are
being discussed.

Meanwhile, the successful old idea awaits reinforcements at the Border Patrol,
reinforcements for which spokesman Keith Roberts sees "some hope" in the budget
year that begins Oct. 1. We have too many mouse holes and not enough cats. The
Border Patrol moves agents around the country as backlogs grow, but it doesn't
have enough agents to get ahead. Told of Mr. Krischer's "half-inch-thick" book
of things lawmakers want done for which they didn't provide staff, Mr. Roberts
said, "That's exactly the issue."

Congress plans to vote this week on a new program that may or may not work
against illegal immigration. Meanwhile, a program that is known to work waits
for someone to work it.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              38 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 19, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS ELIGIBLE ONLY FOR DEPORTATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 183 words


The editorial "Show on immigration isn't fit for children" discusses an
amendment passed by the House that would allow states to deny free education to
children illegally in our country. This should not be a problem. Illegal by
definition means "prohibited by law." Illegal immigrants and their children are
prohibited from being in the United States. They are not eligible for anything
except deportation. This is what would happen to any U.S. citizen and his or her
children if identified as being in another country illegally. The solution is
simple: Identify the illegals and deport them.

The law that says state officials can't ask about resident status is as idiotic
as those who created it. Repeal this law! Eliminating the spending of millions
of dollars on illegals would also eliminate the need to pass the school board's
proposed 17 percent tax increase on Palm Beach County taxpayers.

You state that "denying education to children is inhumane and stupid." I submit
that "denying a good education to legal children is inhumane and stupid"!

Marilyn Koch

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              39 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                September 24, 1996, Tuesday Correction Appended
                                  FINAL EDITION

GOP DROPS EDUCATION BAN FROM BILL;
MEASURE WOULD HAVE BARRED IMMIGRANTS FROM CLASSROOMS

BYLINE: ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a move that will help the election campaigns of many House Republicans, but
was opposed by Bob Dole, the party's congressional leaders have agreed to drop
from a stalled immigration bill a divisive provision that would allow states to
bar illegal-immigrant children from school.

Under the new plan, expected to be announced today, House and Senate Republicans
will strip that provision from the broader bill and schedule it for a vote as a
separate measure. And in a compromise on that provision, any illegal-immigrant
children enrolled in any grade as of Jan. 1, 1997, would be permitted to stay
through high school.

The separate votes may solve a political problem for California Republicans, who
feel they need to stand tough against the high costs of educating illegal
immigrants.

But it is a setback for Dole, who sent his campaign manager to Capitol Hill
earlier this month to argue that a tougher stand could put President Clinton on
the defensive over the failure of a generally popular bill, and could also deny
him another bill-signing photo opportunity in the Rose Garden.

Any bill containing the schools provision faced a bipartisan Senate filibuster
led by Democrats and a veto threat from Clinton.

Under the latest plan the House probably would pass the revised education ban
and the Senate would block it. The overall bill likely would pass, but backers
of the provision from California and other states with large numbers of illegal
immigrants would at least have a vote to campaign on.

This would seem to add up to a big political victory for Clinton. But in the
last few days, top administration aides have raised new objections to the bill
and suggested he may not sign it.

In what may be an eleventh-hour bargaining ploy, administration officials on
Monday withheld the promise of Clinton's support until Republicans told them
about the latest compromise and its details. "We have to hear it from them, and
we haven't," said George Stephanopoulos, a senior adviser to the president.

Clinton could face political risks if he suddenly balks at signing the overall
bill, which would nearly double the number of Border Patrol officers and
restrict benefits to legal immigrants.

Despite provisions that civil-rights advocates say would deny legal protections
to all immigrants and impose harsher restrictions on legal immigrants than the
recently passed welfare bill, the immigration legislation without the education
measure enjoys broad bipartisan support in Congress.

For example, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, a leader for Democrats on
immigration issues, has said she would support the overall bill if the education
provision were removed.

Many of the most important parts of the immigration bill are already financed or
contained in the welfare bill, so the battle was largely a symbolic one for Dole
and the Republicans.

At the center of that struggle was the education measure, which is particularly
popular in California. The state's Republican governor, Pete Wilson, has
complained that California spends $ 1.8 billion a year to educate more than
350,000 illegal immigrant children.

Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia strongly supported the measure, sponsored by
Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., and hoped it would win votes for Republicans in
Southern California facing close races.

The House included the provision in its immigration bill, but the Senate did
not, arguing that it would toss tens of thousands of children into the streets
and into new careers in crime.

Dole and House Republicans tried to use Democratic opposition to the education
provision to paint the Democrats as weak on illegal immigration and to deny
Clinton a bill the president would undoubtedly call his own.

But the strategy backfired when many Republicans calculated that it served their
own interests more to get even a weaker bill signed into law than to have a new
issue to fight the president on, however much that would help Dole's flagging
presidential campaign.

Republicans backpedaled and offered a compromise that would allow illegal
immigrant children already in elementary school to stay and those in seventh
grade or higher to graduate from high school. But the parents of any child
moving from sixth to seventh grade would have to pay annual tuition of as much
as $ 6,000 from then on.

That compromise also unraveled.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1996

CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a headline in The Palm Beach Post on Tuesday
incorrectly described a provision in the House immigration bill. The provision,
which has been stripped from the bill, would have allowed states to refuse to
pay for schooling for children of illegal immigrants.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              40 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 29, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

CONGRESSIONAL REPORT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 5E

LENGTH: 974 words


Votes of Florida members of Congress on key issues during the week ending Sept.
27, 1996:

KEY HOUSE VOTES

HOUSE VOTES TO LET STATES KEEP ILLEGAL ALIENS OUT OF SCHOOL. The House voted
254-175 Sept. 25 to allow states to bar illegal immigrants from attending public
school - but they did so apart from the broader issue of how to address the flow
of illegal immigration.

The vote came after Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., implored his peers to send a
statement 'across the planet' that American taxpayers will not foot the bill for
illegal immigrants.

Lawmakers initially included the language in a sweeping bill that aims to reduce
illegal immigration by beefing up border patrols, building new fences in
southern California and blocking federal benefits from programs like welfare to
illegal aliens.

But the decision to link the issues of education and illegal immigration led
President Clinton to threaten a veto of the larger bill, so Republicans decided
to address the topics separately. After passing the education-related measure,
the House passed a compromise version of the larger immigration package.

The school ban on illegal immigrants is not expected to become law. Bill sponsor
Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., said the bill will be given a hearing by a Senate
committee, but there is not likely to be a vote.

Rep. Gingrich made a rare floor speech to support Rep. Gallegly's plan. 'It
sends a signal to the world,' Rep. Gingrich said. 'Don't come to America and
think the taxpayers of America are going to take care of you if you are here
illegally.'

Opponents said the bill would penalize children for their parents' decisions and
said halting education will not deter the influx of immigrants who come to
America to find jobs.

'This is not a solution,' said John Bryant, D-Texas. 'Do we want as a matter of
national policy to have these kids wandering the streets?'

Voting to deny free public education to illegal immigrants: Democrats: Deutsch.
Republicans: Bilirakis, Canady, Foley, Fowler, Goss, McCollum, Mica, Miller,
Scarborough, Shaw, Stearns, Weldon, Young.

Voting against: Democrats: Brown, Hastings, Johnston, Meek, Thurman.
Republicans: Diaz-Balart, Ros-Lehtinen.

Not Voting:

Democrats Gibbons and Peterson.

KEY SENATE VOTES

SENATE SUSTAINS CLINTON'S VETO OF ABORTION PROCEDURE BAN. The crucible of this
year's abortion debate reached its final destination on Sept. 26 when the Senate
refused to override President Clinton's veto of a bill to ban a certain
late-term abortion procedure. The 57-41 roll call was nine votes short of the
two-thirds majority needed make the bill law.

Mr. Clinton vetoed the measure in April, but anti-abortion lawmakers held the
veto override attempt until the campaign season in an effort to paint Mr.
Clinton as extreme on the abortion issue. The House voted to override the veto
Sept. 19.

Abortion rights advocates maintained that supporters of the measure were only
trying to score political points and confuse the public. They said Mr. Clinton
would sign the bill if there was an exception for cases when a woman would
suffer serious adverse health consequences without the procedure.

'Doctors, not Congress, should make the determination as to what is medically
necessary,' said Russell D. Feingold, D-Wis.

Supporters of the bill asserted that the procedure, which they term as 'partial
birth abortion,' is cruel, inhumane, and not medically necessary. They
maintained that there are alternatives and this method is used because it is
quick and can be done on an outpatient basis.

'This child is seconds, inches from total birth. It's a live human being. It's
infanticide,' said Don Nickles, R-Okla.

The bill defines the procedure as an abortion where the doctor 'vaginally
delivers a living fetus before killing the fetus and completing the delivery.'
Under the bill, doctors would have faced up to two years in prison and fines for
performing the procedure. The woman would have been exempted from prosecution.

Voting to override veto: Mack (R).

Voting against: Graham (D).

MERCHANT MARINE BILL SURVIVES SENATE SCARE, GOES TO CLINTON. The Senate voted
88-10 Sept. 24 to establish a 50-ship fleet that would be on call during
national emergencies to deliver supplies to a war zone.

After listening to stories about 17 U.S.-hired foreign ships that refused to
deliver vital cargo during the Persian Gulf War, senators voted to subsidize
costs for U.S. shipowners who agree to make their vessels available to the
Defense Department during national crises.

During floor debate, senators considered language loosely related to the measure
that would have prohibited shipowners from using their federal subsidies for
lobbying or political campaigns. The Senate rejected that language, thereby
sending to President Clinton the same maritime measure the House passed in Dec.
1995. Any changes would have required a House-Senate conference that Sen. Ted
Stevens, R-Alaska, said would have killed the entire package.

He said the lobbying language was a 'killer amendment' because it would have
forced another House vote, one that he said would be unlikely with lawmakers
eager to adjourn to return home to campaign.

Under the maritime measure, shipowners in the merchant marine program would
receive a flat payment of $ 2.1 million for each year of service. The bill would
authorize $ 100 million a year through fiscal 2005.

Current law provides compensation for U.S. ships based on their higher operating
costs compared with foreign vessels, which can run up to $ 4 million per ship
each year. Critics said the system leads to inefficiency, adding that by 1997,
most contracts under the old system will expire, virtually eliminating America's
merchant marine.

Voting to establish a 50-ship fleet: Graham (D), Mack (R).

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              41 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               October 13, 1996, Sunday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LAWYER NUN HELPS FOREIGNERS NATURALIZE

BYLINE: ALISON FITZGERALD

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Sister Catherine Cassidy opened her new law office on Aug. 5 and already has
about 400 clients.

A rainmaker? Hardly. Sister Catherine's clients, mostly illegal immigrants,
don't pay.

Her reputation spreads through word of mouth and people come to her for help in
seeking asylum, gaining legal status, or for protection from abuse.

Last week she was helping a teenage mother who has been in the United States for
several years become a permanent resident.

"The court has determined it is not in her best interests to return to
Guatemala," Sister Catherine said, explaining that the teenager had been abused
in her native Guatemala. Now it's a matter of getting the paperwork done before
her 18th birthday next week.

With the anti-immigration furor spreading through government, Sister Catherine's
office on Second Street in Fort Pierce is one of a dwindling number of places
illegal immigrants can go for help.

The nun, who is also a lawyer, and several other immigration specialists left
Florida Rural Legal Services this year after Congress passed a law that
prohibits the legal services program from helping immigrants, even if they use
private grant money to do so.

"The Congress that wanted to leave everything to the states wanted to restrict
us on how we could use our money," said Jane Curran of the Florida Bar
Foundation, which gives grants to Legal Services.

So four lawyers got together to set up a new nonprofit, the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center .

Cassidy said she had to leave Legal Services because she couldn't abandon her
200 clients. "Ethically and morally, we couldn't say goodbye and good luck," she
said.

FIAC gets most of its money from the Sisters of the Humility of Mary and also
gets grants from the Florida Bar Foundation and money from private donors.

Curran said the Bar foundation is obligated by its charter to provide free legal
help to the poor.

"The representation of the aliens is a very special calling," she said. "That's
why specifically we have funded FIAC."

FIAC's main office is in Miami, where seven lawyers work with individual clients
and look at possible class actions to fight widespread abuse. There are also
offices in Immokalee and Homestead.

Cheryl Little, executive director of the Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami,
said one of the major roles of Legal Services was to help illegal immigrants
become legitimate residents.

"Our primary goal is: Protect the basic rights of immigrants of all
nationalities," Little said. "We'll assist people that have bona fide asylum
claims, we'll assist people trying to keep their families together."

She said with all the new anti-immigrant laws, it's more important than ever to
legitimize immigrants who have a residency claim.

Since August, about 200 new clients have walked through Sister Catherine's doors
in Fort Pierce.

She is now preparing for a barrage of new clients looking to become permanent
residents as a result of the new welfare reform law and its anti-immigrant
provisions.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              42 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 26, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

AGENTS DETAIN 120 FARMWORKERS WITHOUT PAPERS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


 Border Patrol agents detained 120 undocumented immigrants Monday after stopping
buses, vans and trucks transporting workers to the vegetable fields in the
western suburbs.
   Working with Lake Worth police in the pre-dawn operation, law enforcement
officers stopped 14 vehicles at Sixth Avenue South near the entrance ramp to
Interstate 95.
 The police checked bus drivers for proof of insurance while agents checked the
passengers for work permits, said Art Bullock, chief of the Border Patrol
station at the Port of Palm Beach.
   Bullock said the Mexican farmworkers would be flown to the Texas-Mexico
border today to be escorted back to their country while the Guatemalans would be
held for deportation hearings.
   Monday's operation began at 4:30 a.m. and was carried out with 14 Border
Patrol and immigration agents and five or six Lake Worth police officers. Most
of the stops occurred around 6 a.m. as the buses and vans left the urban area
for the fields.
   Police Sgt. Al Vine said the Border Patrol requested the assistance of Lake
Worth police, who have cracked down on uninsured vehicles used as farmworker
transportation. Vine said the vehicles stopped Monday had insurance.
   Vine said most of the farmworkers aboard the buses did not carry documents to
prove they were in the country legally. He estimated that of the 200 workers
riding the vans and buses, only about 50 produced work papers.
   The detentions brought a complaint from a vegetable farmer who said his legal
workers who had papers or later proved their right to be in the country were
left on the roadside or at the Port of Palm Beach without a way to work.
   "I think it's outrageous conduct," said Val Haley, general manager of DuBois
Farms in suburban Boynton Beach.
   Haley said many workers don't carry the required documents because field work
is "dirty and sweaty."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              43 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 8, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

PAPERWORK SNAGS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' EXIT

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Hector Artica thought that living in the United States without legal
documentation was hard enough. But just try leaving.

"The government is telling us we can't be in the country and at the same time
they are detaining us from leaving," said Artica, 26. Both Artica and his wife,
Marlene, 23, entered the country illegally at the U.S.-Mexican border.

The couple wants to return to their native Honduras on Dec. 19. But they say a
Postal Service employee who handles passport applications created a headache for
them by claiming that Marlene lacked sufficient identity documents.

Marlene, 23, went to the post office Friday on Summit Boulevard seeking a U.S.
Passport for her 10-month old daughter, Ashly. Since the baby was born in the
United States, she cannot be admitted into Honduras without a passport.

Marlene showed the child's birth certificate, but she did not have any other
acceptable forms of identification, according to Paul Scott, the postal employee
who helps with passport applications.

Scott said Friday that Marlene presented an ID card issued by the state driver
license office. The card resembles a driver license, with the holder's
photograph and date of birth.

Scott said the Miami passport office rules say driver licenses are acceptable as
IDs, but not the non-driver identification card.

"I'm turning out to be the bad guy here, but I'm not," Scott said. He said he
wanted to save the mother the time and money of a rejected application.

The U.S. Department of State issues passports, but about 3,500 U.S. post offices
distribute applications and help customers fill out the forms.

Scott overstepped his powers when he refused to accept the application, a state
department spokeswoman said Friday. She said the state-issued ID may have been
rejected, but Scott should have sent it along anyway.

Artica says Scott also told the couple to come back with another document:
deportation orders. Scott denied making the statement, saying his only concern
was a proper ID.

Scott said the couple was pleasant, but had difficulty understanding English.

"I don't speak Spanish," he said. "It's hard to explain to people when they
don't speak the native tongue."

Artica says he plans to go to the Miami passport office to try again. After
seven years working in the United States in the construction trades, Artica says
he wants to return to Honduras and open his own business.

"The problem is we want to leave the county, but we can't," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              44 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 15, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

NO FAVORS FOR CUBANS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 395 words


The "Cuban people of the diaspora" charge the Clinton administration with
plotting another "infamy" against them. The "infamy" this time would be to treat
illegal immigrants from Cuba just as other illegals are treated under U.S.
immigration policy. Talks with Fidel Castro's government seem headed in that
direction.

The statement from which the quotes are taken is signed by 26 groups claiming to
speak for Cubans who hope to go home when Cuba is free and Cuban-Americans who
score political points with anti-Castro rhetoric. The statement also says: "The
only totalitarian regime remaining in the Western Hemisphere is the brutal Cuban
tyranny, and while it exists it is the duty of all brother nations to grant
refuge to those who flee its brutality."

People have duties, but countries have policies. Lyndon Johnson's foreign policy
and the wishes of Cuban emigres meshed in 1966, when Congress gave preferential
treatment to people fleeing Cuba, even if they only got close to our shores in a
raft and whether or not they qualified for admission. Castro's dictatorship was
young and expected to fall any day. Encouraging the brain drain might bring the
day a little sooner.

But 30 years have passed. Castro is preparing to show Pope John Paul II around.
Miami, Dade County and Florida are still paying costs of rapid immigration
growth brought on by federal policy, which the policy's makers didn't pay.
Special treatment for Cubans leaves Castro with his hand on the handle to turn
on another flow of rafts.

Other countries trade with Cuba and think our obsession with Castro is
borderline psychotic. President Clinton faces a self-imposed January deadline on
enforcing the Helms-Burton Act to punish foreign companies that do business in
Cuba. He must either disappoint "Cubans of the diaspora" again or invite
retaliation against Americans.

A policy that didn't work and causes us more grief than it causes Castro should
be scrapped. Emotional words from a time when Castro seemed ripe for overthrow
belong in a museum, not in policy statements. Cubans who have been in Florida
long enough to pay off a mortgage and raise children for whom Miami is home know
that U.S. foreign policy is now their foreign policy.

Subjecting would-be emigrants still in Cuba to normal immigration rules and
procedures would make the best of a bad situation.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              45 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

             December 18, 1996, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 244 words


FORT PIERCE - The U.S. Border Patrol detained 57 illegal immigrants Monday
morning after stopping several vans taking the men to work in local packing
houses. U.S. Border Patrol officials put 45 of the men on a bus and sent them
back to Mexico immediately. The 12 who were allowed to remain in this country
had family here or were in the process of completing residency paperwork, border
patrol station Supervisor Art Bullock said. Anyone with information about the
smuggling of illegal immigrants should call Bullock in the West Palm Beach
office, (561) 848-6161.

Age is everything

Too young to save ... STUART - City firefighters will soon burn down two
abandoned houses near downtown - but not without Nancy Hemphill's OK. A local
property owner has donated the houses for a "controlled burn," a routine fire
department training exercise. Hemphill, director of Stuart Main Street and an
advocate of local historic preservation, was only half joking when she
questioned Fire Chief Larry Massing at Monday night's city commission meeting.
"Are they pre-1945?" Hemphill asked. "If you can find some historical value in
'em," the chief responded, "you're welcome to 'em." They were built in the
1950s, Massing said, and Hemphill backed off. "They're a lot younger than the
Krueger building you let get destroyed," joked City Commissioner Karl Krueger.
His father's deteriorating World War I-era building was razed a couple of years
ago.

- Ian Trontz

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT / AROUND TOWN

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              46 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              December 29, 1996, Sunday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 243 words


PALM BEACH

Police pulled five illegal immigrants - including one who nearly drowned - from
the surf Saturday night after they were dropped offshore by a small boat.
Officers investigating a recent string of burglaries near The Atriums
condominiums at 3400 S. Ocean Blvd. saw the small boat drop off the immigrants
and head back out to sea. One of the men was heard screaming and was pulled to
safety by two police officers. He was treated at Good Samaritan Medical Center.
The men - four Haitians and one Bahamian - said they traveled over from Freeport
in the Bahamas, but they would not name the captain who brought them to shore.
Late Saturday, police planned to turn the men over to agents of the Border
Patrol, U.S. Customs or the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

BOYNTON BEACH

Thanks to a $ 500,000 donation from a Delray Beach foundation, Caridad Asensio's
dream of better medical care for migrant workers in South Florida is about to
come true. The gift from the Forrest C. Lattner Foundation has lifted the
Migrant Association of South Florida to its goal of $ 1.5 million - enough to
build a large, permanent health clinic. It will be built on a seven-acre site on
Boynton Beach Boulevard, about a mile east of a temporary clinic the association
operates at State Road 7. The pres-ent clinic - in a double-wide trailer - is
called the Caridad Health Clinic in honor of Asensio, president and founder of
the association.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              47 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               July 19, 1997, Saturday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 228 words


STUART - Stuart and federal officials picked up 21 people on immigration
violations at Colony Court Apartments on Palm Beach Road on Thursday night.
Stuart police joined with agents from the Border Patrol and the Drug Enforcement
Administration checking the complex. One man, Eduard Nogue, was charged with
possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana. Border Patrol detained the 21
charged with immigration violations in West Palm Beach.

FORT PIERCE - A Fort Pierce man last seen being stuffed in the trunk of a car
was still missing late Friday and St. Lucie County sheriff's detectives have no
suspects in the disappearance. Augustine Garcia, 36, of 10175 Price Road was
kidnapped by three men who came to his house Thursday afternoon, deputies said.
Garcia had been scheduled to appear Monday in St. Lucie County Circuit Court to
answer drug and firearms possession charges. He's also charged with possession
of migratory game bird parts. Michelle McPeak told deputies she was followed
home by three men who pulled guns, struck Garcia and then drove away with Garcia
in the trunk of their car. McPeak said the men threatened to kill her when
Garcia managed to get in her van and she tried to drive away. Investigators have
questioned several people, but have no suspects and don't know why Garcia was
kidnapped, sheriff's spokesman Mark Weinberg said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              48 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 3, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL RAIDS HOUSE, DETAINS FIVE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Border Patrol agents entered the home of farm workers during a sweep along
Broadway this week, signaling that the search for undocumented immigrants has
expanded beyond the agricultural fields.

Five immigrants were apprehended Tuesday, including one who said agents entered
his home without permission and conducted a room-to-room search.

The immigrant, Josefat de Jesus Ceba, 25, said agents entered a bedroom where
his sister-in-law was asleep. The woman said agents removed a sheet covering her
and ordered her out while they searched through her purse and belongings.

Border Patrol agents normally don't enter homes and in past years have limited
their apprehensions to farms and other workplaces.

The agents entered the home because Ceba had been outside and ducked inside when
he saw agents, said Border Patrol Chief Agent Art Bullock. He denied that agents
walked into the woman's room unannounced.

"We wouldn't go into a room with a female in there without making sure she was
aware of our presence," he said.

Ceba was detained for several hours at the Border Patrol office in Riviera Beach
and given a written order to leave the country voluntarily within 30 days. Had
detention center space been available, he would have been held for immediate
deportation, Bullock said.

Ceba said he came from Vera Cruz, Mexico, two months ago but has not found work.

Bullock said four agents went to the 34th Street area along Broadway in response
to complaints from homeowners and police of "unemployed illegal aliens hanging
around on street corners drinking beer.

"That area from 30th to 38th streets is notorious," Bullock said. "We get
complaints from people there all the time."

Immigrant advocates said agents are overstepping their authority.

"We cannot tolerate these kinds of things," said Jaime Zapata, executive
director of the Guatemala Maya Center in Lake Worth. Zapata said the Border
Patrol went too far in June when suspected undocumented immigrants were hunted
on the grounds of Lake Worth High School. The Border Patrol said some people ran
onto school property but were not pursued by agents.

City Commissioner Al Zucaro, an immigration lawyer, said Border Patrol agents
have broad powers because being in the country illegally is a civil rather than
criminal violation.

Entering homes to conduct searches "violates what we Americans believe to be our
rights," Zucaro said. "Whether these people are in this country legally or
illegally, they still have some inherent rights."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              49 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 12, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

OPEN MINDS, NOT BORDER

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 506 words


California claims the state has been invaded. The Supreme Court doesn't want to
hear about it. Last week, the justices declined to review appeals from
California and Arizona for federal help with their illegal immigration costs.

That was expected. Florida filed and lost its $ 1 billion lawsuit first. Aside
from California's novel argument that 125,000 illegals crossing its borders each
year constitute "an unlawful and continuing invasion," neither the
constitutional nor the moral issues in the two cases differ from those Gov.
Chiles raised in his suit. The Supreme Court won't intervene between the other
two branches of the federal government and the states. New Jersey's suit is as
doomed as the others.

But the suits were useful. After they were filed, the Justice Department began
paying states for housing illegals awaiting deportation, and 5,000 more Border
Patrol officers were hired. The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports
it has doubled the number of illegals stopped at ports and airports.

For relief, the states must rely on Congress. The four states that sued send 94
members to the 435-member House of Representatives. Add New York, which has
similar problems, and there could be 125 members working to obtain relief from
the educational, medical and justice-system costs borne by the states because
the federal government can't protect the borders.

Illegal immigrants are easy, even for Congress. Everyone agrees on what is to be
done: Keep them out, and if they get in, kick them out. The question is how to
pay for the simple solution.

The knottier immigrant problems are semi-legal and legal immigration. Wars of
the 1960s and '80s sent America tens of thousands of lawful refugees or asylum
seekers who were are not on course for citizenship but lived here too long to be
mercilessly evicted. Congress periodically tries to clear up special cases,
usually by trying to make citizenship easier and adding confusion to immigration
policy.

Legal immigration needs a new debate, but it's not likely to get one while the
illegal and semi-legal issues are prominent. Under current law, 800,000
immigrants are added to the population each year - or would be if the INS could
catch up with its 21-month backlog. (The INS has been diverted to the illegals.)
That influx tends to force down wages even more for poorer Americans, and you
wonder what will happen during the next recession.

The five-year study of immigration originally led by the late Barbara Jordan of
Texas concluded its work last week by reporting that legal immigrants contribute
mightily, over time, to our economy and productivity. But in the short run, the
panel admitted, there are costs in "Americanizing" new arrivals - such as
teaching them English and how to function in our political and economic system.

The panel said "we" should spend more on Americanization. The governmental "we"
that pays most are the states, not the feds. They still need help from the level
of government where immigration policy is made.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              50 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 17, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

ENFORCE THE FAIR RULES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 57 words


 Illegal immigrants should have a chance for a year to get a green card. But
after the year, all illegal immigrants should be deported. This is a country of
freedom and opportunity and will stay good only with legal people. Deportation
will show everyone that America is a place for all who follow the rules.
   Jason Barnett, 13

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Students Speak Out

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              51 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  February 25, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN CLAN ALLEGEDLY RAN BROTHEL CHAIN

BYLINE: David Abel; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 705 words


 At least 23 women and girls were forced to work in nearly a dozen brothels in
South Florida - including Lake Worth, West Palm Beach and Fort Pierce - after
being smuggled into the United States from Mexico, officials said.
   On Tuesday, federal authorities announced charges against a family of five
illegal immigrants who deceived women hoping for a better life. Eight of the
females were juveniles as young as 14 years old.
 ''This is the worst case of aliens smuggled to be prostitutes (that) I know of
in South Florida,'' said Frank Doyle, a special agent in the anti-smuggling unit
of the U.S. Border Patrol. ''These are bad people.''
   Rogerio Francisco Cadena, 50, of Veracruz, Mexico, was arrested while raking
leaves in front of a Fort Myers brothel on Friday. He is being held without bail
at the Lee County Jail on charges that include involuntary servitude, smuggling
and harboring illegal immigrants, and inducing a minor to engage in
prostitution.
   His three nephews - Juan Luis Cadena-Sosa, 33, Abel Cadena-Sosa, 31, and
Rafael Alberto Cadena-Sosa, 29 - and one of their wives, Carmen Cadena, 31, are
wanted on the same charges. FBI and Border Patrol agents suspect they have fled
to Mexico.
   Eighteen of the women are being held in the Krome Immigration Detention
Center near Miami, awaiting arraignment in federal court in Fort Pierce. Doyle
said two of the juveniles have not been apprehended and three others are in the
Palm Beach County Jail. All face deportation.
   The prostitution ring, which authorities believe began around September 1996
and might extend to Texas, South Carolina and Georgia, netted up to $ 10,000 a
day and catered to Hispanic farmhands and construction workers, Doyle said.
   Federal agents said the women, who were told they could not leave the
brothels until they paid off debts between $ 2,000 and $ 3,000 for being
smuggled into the United States, were rotated between sex houses every 15 days.
   There were three brothels in Lake Worth and two in Okeechobee along with
others in Homestead, Avon Park, Fort Pierce, West Palm Beach, Boynton Beach, and
Fort Myers.
   The FBI and U.S. Border Patrol began investigating the Cadena family in
November 1996, when two 15-year-old Mexican girls escaped the Homestead brothel
and alerted officials at the Mexican consulate in Miami.
   The girls told a story of being lured to the United States to work for Juan
Luis Cadena-Sosa. They didn't know the work entailed selling their bodies. The
two, like the others, told investigators about being shipped in trucks and buses
from the Gulf coast state of Veracruz through Matamoros, Mexico to Brownsville,
Texas.
   Other women taken into custody told authorities they averaged 20 men a day.
The Cadenas attracted low wage immigrant workers with business cards that
directed them to the brothels, a criminal complaint filed by U.S. attorneys
says. ''Ticketeros,'' ticket takers - sometimes women - charged clients up to $
22.
   The Cadenas kept 70 percent of the fees, deducting their ''smuggling debt''
and money to pay for clothing, food and maintenance of the house, court records
show. One woman's debt was increased to $ 2,450 when Abel Cadena-Sosa gave her $
150 to buy ''alluring clothing'' from Kmart. The women were generally left with
$ 3.
   In one bust at a brothel in Okeechobee, federal agents seized $ 11,038, 21
bottles of hydrogen peroxide, 11 bottles of birth control pills with Spanish
labels, 112 condoms and a 9mm semiautomatic pistol.
   Illegal immigrant prostitution rings are not new in the United States. In
January 1997, Thao Lor, 22, a Laotian immigrant, was charged in Milwaukee for
running a prostitution ring of 14-year-old girls.
   Immigration officials busted their second prostitution ring last September in
Orange County, Calif., that they say brings in almost 100 women from Thailand
every month. In January, FBI agents arrested two Mexican men in Elmhurst, N.Y.,
for forcing Mexican girls as young as age 16 to work as prostitutes in payment
for smuggling them into the country.
   ''Impoverished women looking for a better life are vulnerable to these
crimes,'' Doyle said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              52 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 May 31, 1998, Sunday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 94 words


NORTH PALM BEACH - Seventeen undocumented immigrants from India were taken into
custody early Saturday after coming ashore near the north end of John D.
MacArthur Beach State Park. They were rounded up by police about 2 a.m. and
turned over to the U.S. Border Patrol office in Riviera Beach.  The Indians were
believed to have been dropped off on the beach by a boat that brought them from
the Bahamas, authorities said. The immigrants were taken to the Krome Detention
Center south of Miami, where they will await a hearing before an immigration
judge.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              53 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   May 31, 1998, Sunday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

17 INDIAN IMMIGRANTS COME ASHORE NEAR PARK

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: NORTH PALM BEACH


Seventeen undocumented immigrants from India were taken into custody early
Saturday after coming ashore near the north end of John D. MacArthur Beach State
Park.

They were rounded up by police about 2 a.m. and turned over to the U.S. Border
Patrol office in Riviera Beach before being taken to the Krome Detention Center
south of Miami, where they will await a hearing.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran Final

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              54 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    June 10, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

PATROL NABS THIRD BOAT IN A MONTH

BYLINE: Tim Pallesen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


U.S. Border Patrol agents rounded up 15 illegal Haitian immigrants Tuesday - the
third boatload of illegal immigrants to come ashore on the town's beaches in
less than a month.

''We're getting killed,'' said Art Bullock, the local Border Patrol agent in
charge. ''The weather for this was perfect again last night.''

A town of Palm Beach patrolman spotted the latest boatload at 6:40 a.m. Tuesday
on the town's municipal beach, two blocks north of Royal Palm Way.

Town police helped Border Patrol agents round up 14 males and one female from
Haiti. They found a Bible and a battery-operated police scanner on the 21-foot
outboard boat that agents believe traveled a calm sea on a moonless night from
the Bahamas.

The group was taken by Border Patrol agents to the Krome Detention Center near
Miami for processing.

Eleven men and four women from Ecuador were discovered hiding in sea grapes on
May 12 at 3120 S. Ocean Blvd.

Border Patrol agents arrested three men and woman later that day on smuggling
charges. Another nine Haitians came ashore near Seabreeze Avenue on May 23.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              55 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 12, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 112 words


U.S. Border Patrol agents stopped a U-Haul truck Wednesday morning jammed with
19 undocumented immigrants on Interstate 95, south of Stuart in Martin County.
The truck was carrying two women and 17 men from Mexico and Guatemala who were
going to work for a farmer in the western suburbs, said Art Bullock, chief of
the Border Patrol station at the Port of Palm Beach. The farm workers, who had
traveled from Arizona, cut a hole in the roof of the truck to breathe, Bullock
said. They were taken to the Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County and
will be deported to Mexico on Thursday. A Guatemalan man will be held for a
deportation hearing, Bullock said.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              56 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

             November 14, 1998, Saturday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 115 words


Frederick Missick, a Bahamian citizen aboard one of two boats containing illegal
immigrants that Coast Guard agents detained late Wednesday, was charged with
violating his probation, a U.S. Border Patrol spokesman said Thursday. Missick
had been convicted twice in the United States for immigrant smuggling, said
agent Dan Geoghegan. There were 34 Haitians and two Bahamians on one boat, and
two Bahamians, four Jamaicans, three Cubans and 12 Haitians on the second boat,
the Border Patrol reported. The Coast Guard will repatriate them, authorities
said. One of the boats was stopped 9 miles east of the Lake Worth Inlet and the
other was 30 miles southwest of Freeport, Bahamas.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Metro Report

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              57 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 25, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

HONDURAN 'SECOND WAVE' MAY HIT U.S.

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 877 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS


Eighteen-year-old Ethelvina Hernandez says ''it was only by the grace of God''
that she survived her swim across the Rio Grande.

Other Hondurans may not be as lucky, immigrant advocates fear.

Six months after Hurricane Mitch ravaged Central America, the United States
Information Agency is warning that a huge ''second wave'' of illegal immigrants
may be headed north from Honduras.

The USIA estimates that since the October hurricane some 80,000 Hondurans
without U.S. visas have already left Honduras, a country of 3 million.

Now, in spite of reconstruction efforts in their country, another 170,000
undocumented Hondurans may be bound for the United States in the coming months,
according to a poll conducted in Honduras at the request of USIA.

The poll was conducted in February by the CID-Gallup company of Costa Rica.

''If those numbers are right, this could be one of the deadliest summers we've
had,'' said Charles Roth, a lawyer with Proyecto Libertad, or Liberty Project,
an immigrant advocacy group in the Rio Grande Valley city of Harlingen, Texas.

Roth is worried that Hondurans who try to cross the border illegally during the
hot summer months will run up against tough new U.S. Border Patrol tactics.

The Border Patrol's aim - along the entire Mexico-United States frontier - is to
deter illegal immigration by beefing up surveillance in areas where migrants
commonly cross.

Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley say the strategy is helping to
slow the flow of migrants.

But Roth and other immigrant advocates say people are simply choosing more
isolated and perilous areas to cross the border.

One of the latest examples of this, advocates say, was in eastern San Diego
County, Calif., where eight Mexican migrants attempting to cross isolated
mountains froze to death on April 2.

A favorite entry point for Central Americans trying to cross the border
illegally is the Rio Grande Valley and the Brownsville, Texas, area. It is the
shortest route from Central America to the United States.

Because Hurricane Mitch destroyed so many businesses and so much infrastructure
in Central America, the United States has offered more than $ 300 million in aid
to Honduras. It has also agreed to offer temporary visas to undocumented
Hondurans who could prove they arrived in the United States before Dec. 31,
1998.

''The cruel irony,'' Roth said, is that no one among the predicted second wave
of migrants that could be headed north now will qualify under that policy.

Roth said Proyecto Libertad still is trying to help Hondurans who arrived before
the Dec. 31 deadline.

Ethelvina Hernandez, who worked in a clothing factory since she was 15, said she
left her home in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, shortly after the hurricane in
October 1998.

Her plan was to find work so she could send money back to her mother to help
rebuild the family home, which was completely destroyed.

''My mother worked so hard for us,'' Hernandez said. ''And in a matter of five
or 10 minutes it was all gone.''

Since she is not married and has no children, Hernandez said she volunteered to
head north instead of older siblings. Siblings already in the United States sent
her $ 3,000, she said, but much of that was stolen by smugglers before she even
left Honduras.

She was terrified, but continued her journey.

''You think I could turn back after losing $ 3,000? No, I wouldn't be able to
live with myself,'' Hernandez said.

She relied mainly on ''the kindness of strangers'' to get her to the border.

She swam across the Rio Grande near Brownsville and, through word of mouth,
found out about Proyecto Libertad.

Now she's working as a live-in childcare worker in Harlingen, and trying to save
several hundred dollars so she can pay for her application to stay in the United
States. She's counting on letters from people she knows in this area to help
convince the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service she arrived in the
United States before Dec. 31.

Jose Segundo Amaya Vigil, 46, doesn't have that hope.

A tomato farmer from San Pedro Sula, he was caught by the Border Patrol April 2
- a day after crossing the Rio Grande - and is now jailed at an INS detention
center in Port Isabel, Texas.

''Even though I was caught I am grateful to be in the United States,'' Amaya
said. ''I expect to be allowed to stay because I am an honest man, a hard worker
who will stay just as long as the government here says I can, and then I promise
to return home to my four children.''

Amaya will have to plead his case before a judge.

''I love my country,'' he added. ''If I did not, why did I not come here earlier
in life like others do? I am 46. I had a tomato farm that fed my family. The
storm ruined us.''

Border Patrol agents in the Brownsville area say they haven't seen a second
surge in Central Americans since the first couple of months following the
hurricane. But Hondurans are often among the largest numbers of detained people.

''Some of them will turn themselves in when they see us. They say they heard
there were special permits for them in the United States,'' said Border Patrol
Agent Ismael Herrera, who was recently patrolling the dark green waters of the
Rio Grande on a Zodiac boat.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Photo by SUSAN FERRISS, Illegal immigrants are held at a
detention center in Port Isabel, Texas. Since the October hurricane, about
80,000 Hondurans have left. Border patrol agents are bracing for a second wave
of 170,000.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              58 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 10, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


Police arrested a suspected smuggler and four illegal immigrants Wednesday
morning shortly after a man working at an oceanfront estate reported a
suspicious boat landing, spokeswoman Janet Kinsella said. Police found a 14-foot
boat near the shore of the 600 block of South Ocean Boulevard and captured the
five men - three Jamaicans and two Bahamians - at 11:45 a.m., Kinsella said.
U.S. Border Patrol agents charged boat captain Benson Pinder, 44, of the
Bahamas, with smuggling.  Pinder was also arrested on smuggling charges in 1995.
Two of the immigrants had been deported a few months ago, senior agent Brian
Ball said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              59 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 11, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLER BACK IN COUNTY JAIL

BYLINE: Scott Hiaasen and Lillian Weis, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Benson Pinder had better be carrying a letter from Janet Reno.

Pinder, a Bahamian national, was arrested Wednesday on Palm Beach after police
found him along with four other illegal immigrants and a 14-foot boat beached
near an oceanfront estate. He's being held at the Palm Beach County Jail on
smuggling charges.

Pinder's arrest came nearly four years to the day after he was caught piloting a
boat into Jupiter Inlet carrying 25 Haitian immigrants and seven others from
Guyana. The immigrants told authorities they paid $ 500 a piece to be guided to
Florida from Grand Bahama, where Pinder lives.

Pinder pleaded guilty to one count of smuggling and was sentenced to eight
months in jail.

He was also ordered by U.S. District Judge Kenneth Ryskamp not to return to the
United States without the permission of the attorney general.

In addition to the new smuggling charges, Pinder, 44, could also face up to 20
years for illegal re-entry into the United States, said William Brett, a senior
agent with the U.S. Border Patrol.

Wednesday's arrest was actually the third time Pinder had been found in the
United States without immigration papers, court records show. In 1994, Pinder
was found in a 21-foot boat; authorities did not find any illegal immigrants,
but Pinder was carrying five extra fuel tanks, raising suspicions about him.
Pinder was later deported, court records show.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Benson Pinder (mug

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              60 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    June 30, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

DRIVER LICENSE IS HOLY GRAIL FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mary Lou Pickel and Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 659 words


Herbert, a 24-year-old illegal Brazilian immigrant, wants a Florida driver
license so badly that he and six friends flew from Massachusetts to wait with
400 others Tuesday at a Delray Beach driver license office.

The crowd of Mexicans, Guatemalans, Haitians and others hoped to get licenses
before a new state law takes effect Thursday barring illegal immigrants from
obtaining Florida driver licenses and ID cards.

"There's busloads coming in from Georgia," Florida's Division of Driver Licenses
Director Sandy Lambert said Monday.

After Thursday, a new law requires anyone applying for a first-time driver
license to show the kind of identification that illegal immigrants won't have: a
U.S. passport, a U.S. birth certificate, a green card or other ID showing
they're in the country legally.

More than 120 people were in line when the license office on Military Trail near
Palm Beach International Airport opened at 7 a.m. Tuesday.

"I came after I heard an alert on a Miami television station talking about the
law," said Alejandro Mendiola, 20, who waited eight hours to take a test for his
learner's permit.

Mendiola said the first thing he learned when he came from Mexico six months ago
was that a driver license was essential to life in America.

"I can't open a bank account, get a credit card or even rent movies from
Blockbuster without a driver license," said Mendiola, a construction worker who
lives in suburban West Palm Beach. "It's necessary for everything."

Undocumented immigrants can use learner's permits to get a driver's license
later without proof of legal residency because they are not considered
first-time drivers.

Canadian and out-of-state license holders are exempt.

The new rules were included in an amendment to a highway safety bill passed on
April 30, the final day of the 1999 session. The bill was signed into law by
Gov. Jeb Bush on June 8.

The law's purpose is to reduce ''identification fraud,'' Lambert said.

Caridad Asensio, founder of the Migrant Association of South Florida, called the
new law "completely anti-immigrant."

It prevents new immigrants from receiving licenses, so many will drive without
them, she said, opening the door to prosecution for illegal driving.

"This is big, big, big trouble for them," Asensio said.

Herbert and his friends can't drive legally in Massachusetts because that state
requires a valid social security number to issue a license. So the young men
hopped on a plane, stayed with a friend in Pompano Beach and borrowed his car to
take their driving tests.

"I'd pay $ 10,000 to be here legally," said Herbert, who declined to give his
last name. Maybe the Florida license will bring him one step closer to
legalization, he said. He'll be able to drive legally in Massachusetts.

Applicants started swarming the license bureaus a week ago, Lambert said.
Bureaus are serving four times the usual number.

Maria das Gracas Freitas, 47, a housecleaner from Pompano Beach, arrived at the
Delray Beach license office at 11:30 p.m. Monday night. She and eight others
waited all night, and by noon Tuesday she had her license.  One ,Marciane
Martins, 23, didn't pass because she didn't look both ways at a stop sign.

"I'll be here at 4 a.m. tomorrow," Martins said.

New drivers must prove legal residency

Beginning Thursday, anyone applying for a driver license or learner permit for
the first time must show one of the following documents:

U.S. birth certificate

Valid U.S. passport

Permanent residency card (green card)

Employment authorization card (work permit)

Proof of non-immigrant status (Form I94)

Plus one other form of identification, such as:

Social security card

Baptism or marriage certificate

Insurance policy in force for at least two years

State-issued identification card

Florida voter registration card issued in past three years

SOURCE: Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer, Francy Guerra watches her
nephew, Albert, while waiting with her mother and two cousins to take the driver
license test in Delray Beach.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              61 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 8, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 372 words


BOYNTON BEACH - U.S. Border patrol agents arrested five illegal immigrants, a
Boynton Beach cab driver and a boat captain Tuesday morning after finding the
men hiding out in two hotel rooms, officials said. Art Bullock, agent in charge
of the West Palm Beach office of the Border Patrol, said the men were discovered
about an hour after Palm Beach County Sheriff's Marine Patrol deputies found a
boat anchored off the Boynton Inlet, north of the Banana Boat Restaurant, 739 E.
Ocean Ave. Bullock would not identify the men, but said the illegal immigrants
are from the Bahamas. The captain is a 43-year-old from Freeport, Bahamas, and
the cab driver is a Haitian immigrant. He said the men were discovered in the
Relax Inn, 222 N. Federal Highway, in rooms checked out by the cab driver. The
men have been taken to the Palm Beach County Jail, he said. Officials suspect
the same boat dropped off four men - two Jamaicans and two Bahamians - on Fisher
Island near Miami on Monday night. He said Miami Beach police and the U.S. Coast
Guard chased the 25-foot boat, which had been registered in the Bahamas and was
equipped with supplemental fuel tanks and twin engines, before losing it north
of the island.

NORTH PALM BEACH - A Jupiter man was critically injured early Monday in a fight
outside an adult entertainment club, police said. Philip J. Armstrong Jr., 23,
of 707 S. Loxahatchee Drive, was leaving Crystal's dance club after midnight
Sunday with companions when he was punched by another patron who had followed
him out into the parking lot and yelled at him. The punch apparently knocked
Armstrong out, causing him to fall backwards and hit his head on the asphalt
outside the club at 421 Northlake Blvd., police said. Armstrong was in a coma
and on life support Tuesday evening at St. Mary's Medical Center. The attacker
was a white man with short blond hair and was wearing a long-sleeve yellow shirt
and black pants and may have been from out of town, witnesses said. He was
muscular, weighed about 240 pounds and stood about 6-foot-4. Anyone with
information can call police at 882-1157 or Crime Stoppers at 1-800-458-8477,
where they can remain anonymous and possibly receive a reward of up to $ 1,000.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Metro Report

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              62 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 9, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

ILLOGIC ON ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 309 words


Last month, the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled - let's
see if we can state it clearly: that people who are in the United States
illegally may sue the employer who illegally hired them if he illegally fires
them from their illegal jobs.

That's crazy. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, and 17 other House members
wrote to the EEOC last week to say so. They said the policy, which allows
illegal immigrants to sue for back pay on grounds of discrimination, "flies in
the face of everything we as a country are trying to do to discourage illegal
immigration."

The EEOC is crazy with a cause. As Chairman Ida L. Castro said, "Unauthorized
workers are especially vulnerable to abuse and exploitation." People who employ
them to exploit them are guilty, too. The EEOC sees the threat of lawsuits as a
way to make them behave. But the employers' crimes are against Americans, their
laws and their economy, as well as against foreign people. The U.S. should go
after illegal employers.

Rep. Foley and the other cosigners should remember that when voting on money for
investigators and prosecutors. But they are right on the main point. It is
counterproductive to grant rights and privileges of citizenship to people who
have no right to be in the country, much less in its labor force. Parasitism is
practical if the advantages of being an American can be gained without going
through the procedures to become a citizen.

A foreign person's illegal status does not justify any American in abusing his
human rights. But the equal opportunity in employment is a civil right. It goes
with full participation in American society. Those who choose to participate
only partially and outside the law do not deserve the protection of the law.
Granting it to them, even as a way to aid law enforcement, cheapens legal
citizenship.


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              63 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 20, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 256 words


BOYNTON BEACH - Police and border patrol agents detained 26 people believed to
be illegal immigrants from Haiti and India on Sunday morning. A resident called
Ocean Ridge police about a 24-foot boat loaded with 13 Haitians late Saturday
night. The U.S. Coast Guard spotted the boat and, as the boat came ashore at the
Boynton Beach Inlet at 1 a.m., the Boynton Beach police were waiting, according
to the U.S. Border Patrol. In a separate incident, Boynton Beach Marine Patrol
officers inspected a boat with its lights off in the Intracoastal Waterway at
about 4 a.m. and found extra gas cans and other items used by smugglers, said
Sgt. Wendy Danysh. Road officers found the Indians in a wooded area on shore; a
van was waiting nearby for them. Officers turned the 13 Indians and three
Bahamians - the drivers of the boat and van - over to the U.S. Border Patrol.

St. Lucie County sheriff's deputies arrested Jose Martinez on Friday and charged
him with the armed robbery of Orange Avenue General Merchandise. Martinez
brought more than $ 300 of clothes to the register, stuck a black handgun in the
clerk's stomach and demanded that she empty the cash register, deputies said.
After being confronted by another clerk, Martinez fled the store and was later
discovered hiding in a back yard under a lawn tractor, according to the
sheriff's office. The victims identified Martinez, who was taken to the St.
Lucie County jail. Martinez was charged with armed robbery with a firearm,
aggravated battery and aggravated assault.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Metro Report

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              64 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 30, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE CATCH 8 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS; 10 OTHERS MAY HAVE ELUDED CAPTURE

BYLINE: Clay Lambert, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


A boat with illegal Haitian immigrants came ashore about 9 a.m. Friday, and
authorities think 10 people may have evaded capture.

The manager of The Brighton condominium complex at 2000 N. Ocean Blvd. called
Boca Raton police when she saw a red boat beached and about 20 people getting
off near Red Reef Park.

Police quickly caught eight Haitians along State Road A1A and two others walking
on Palmetto Park Road, said Debra Shannon, police public information officer. In
all five men and five women - all healthy after their journey - were detained
and handed to U.S. Border Patrol agents, she said.

Those caught put up no resistance, but police think some may have gotten away.

"A witness told us that perhaps as many as 10 people boarded a flatbed truck
headed south," Shannon said.

She said authorities had no other leads on the truck, but would take
fingerprints from the boat and attempt to find those who got away. It was
unclear Friday whether the truck was waiting for the boat's arrival, she said.

The people detained were taken to West Palm Beach for processing before transfer
to Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all ediitons.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              65 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 6, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FOLEY LEADS MOVE TO REVERSE CERTAIN LEGAL RIGHTS FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Sue Schultz, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a letter to President Clinton, 18 Republican congressmen Friday called for
the reversal of a decision that would give certain legal rights to illegal
immigrants.

Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, the primary author of the letter, also has
introduced legislation that would ban the policy established by the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission last week.

''The EEOC's decision flies in the face of everything we as a country are trying
to do to discourage illegal immigration,'' Foley said. ''In states like Florida,
Texas, and California, fighting the steady tide of illegal immigrants is a daily
challenge of legislators and law enforcement authorities.''

Under the EEOC decision, illegal immigrants would be able to get back pay from
employers and sue for punitive damages and reinstatement to their jobs.

''If the administration is worried about unscrupulous employers mistreating
illegal workers, it should go after those employers who are already breaking the
law,'' Foley said in the letter.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              66 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 25, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

30 ILLEGALS CAPTURED ON HUTCHINSON ISLAND

BYLINE: Lady Hereford, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Officials captured 30 Chinese immigrants early Saturday after they came ashore
on Hutchinson Island.

U.S. Border Patrol agents took the fugitives, all men, to their office in West
Palm Beach. and then to the Krome Detention Center in Miami.

The men appeared to be in good health, Border Patrol spokesman Joe Mellia said.
No arrests have been made.

St. Lucie County Sheriff's deputies were called to the area at 12:30 a.m. to
investigate four suspicious people walking along State Road A1A near a
Cumberland Farms convenience store, according to a news release.

When they arrived, they found the four refugees, wet and covered with sand,
walking south in front of Pepper Park.

A search by deputies and the U.S. Coast Guard turned up the remaining refugees
in the area near A1A and the North Beach Causeway. The men were held at the
Coast Guard station in Fort Pierce until Border Patrol agents arrived.

Only one of the men spoke with authorities, and then only briefly. Through an
interpreter, the man said the group was from the Fujian province in China.

In May, 27 male refugees from the same area in southeast China were picked up in
Highland Beach.

Officials believe both groups were smuggled here and are investigating the link
between the two incidents, Mellia said.

Officials estimate refugees from China can pay $ 35,000 to $ 50,000 to get to
the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run Early.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              67 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 1, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW BEGINS; IMMIGRANTS SCRAMBLE TO GAIN CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Javier, an 18-year-old undocumented worker, expects an immigration law that went
into effect today will someday send him packing back to the Mexican village he
left five months ago.

But he's not so worried just yet.

Many of his co-workers in the United States without immigration papers told him
they were skipping work today for fear of deportation sweeps.

Javier, who declined to give his last name, says he will go to his golf course
job as usual.

"What's the difference?" he said, leaning against the exterior of a rental
apartment in a farm-worker neighborhood. "If they don't get me at work, they'll
get me at home. At least here I'll be able to collect my possessions."

The panic building for today's start of the tough immigration law appeared for a
while Monday as if for naught. A federal judge had delayed the effective date of
the law until Saturday. But early today, an appeals court reversed the earlier
ruling, and allowed the new law to take effect.

Immigrants have been rushing to immigration offices and marriage bureaus to
claim rights to legal status before the law takes effect.

County clerks issued 30 percent more marriage licenses in February than in the
same month a year ago. Immigrants who marry a U.S. citizen are eligible for
legal residency in the United States.

Crowds have doubled at the Northlake Boulevard office of the U.S. Department of
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said office supervisor Sharon Mallory.
She said the rush is unnecessary.

"There are misconceptions that there's going to be a lot of round-ups and
deportations," Mallory said. "There are not. They don't need to panic."

Immigration lawyer Frank Ricci says deportations may not be far away, since the
Border Patrol and immigration courts are adding new personnel.

"I think they are going to step up the enforcement action," said Ricci.

If the new law was designed to scare undocumented immigrants into leaving the
country voluntarily, it hasn't worked, Ricci said. The more likely outcome will
be more immigrants in hiding and a larger market for bogus immigration
documents, he said.

The new law adds 5,000 new Border Patrol agents, finances more detention centers
and limits the rights of undocumented immigrants to appeal deportation orders.
At the same time, thousands of Guatemalans and Nicaraguans face a tougher time
proving political asylum claims.

Maria Teresa Lopez, a health worker at the Guatemalan Center in Lake Worth, has
waited since 1990 for a ruling on her asylum claim. If she loses, both she, her
husband and her four children could lose their work permits and be deported.

"We are so worried about what would happen if we are ordered back to Guatemala,"
said Lopez, who has two children in college in South Florida.

Mothers without legal status or work permits are in a worse state of panic, she
said.

"Some are so worried that they have stopped going to English classes, the
laundry or the supermarket for fear of getting picked up by immigration," Lopez
said. "If they are detained outside their home, they may never see their
children again."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              68 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 23, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

27% MORE GOT VISAS IN 1996, INS SAYS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States became the legal home of 915,900 new immigrants last year,
most of them family members of previous immigrants and foreign workers hired for
specific jobs, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday.

The number is 27 percent higher than the 720,461 immigrants who were granted
legal residency in the previous year, said the INS, which compiles the data each
year.

The INS said the largest influx of immigrants came from Mexico, which accounted
for 18 percent of those admitted to the United States in the 1996 budget year.

It said the top states of intended residency for the new immigrants were
California, New York, Florida, Texas, New Jersey and Illinois, states that
traditionally have attracted the most immigrants.

While immigration supporters saw the increase as temporary and too small a
number to worry about, opponents of current immigration policy - with the
release of the new totals - said the numbers show that it's time to close the
door to the United States.

"The whole system is out of control, and what we need is a an immigration
time-out - a moratorium - to allow Congress to rework the system so that it
protects America's long-term interests," said Dan Stein, executive director of
the Washington-based Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors
severe limits on immigration.

Stephen Moore, an economist at the libertarian Cato Institute, said the numbers
were good news "to those, like me, who believe that immigrants are on balance
assets to the American economy and culture. . . . Even for those who favor a
more restrictive policy, the new numbers are hardly cause for alarm."

The new numbers are dominated by the families of naturalized U.S. citizens and
other legal immigrants. One-third of the newly admitted immigrants, or 302,090,
are the spouses, minor children and parents of immigrants who had become U.S.
citizens. Another 294,174 were other family members, including siblings and
adult children, of naturalized citizens and legal immigrants.

The family immigration totals are almost 30 percent higher than a year earlier,
and the INS attributed the increase to a 1986 federal program that granted
amnesty to immigrants who had been living illegally in the United States. As
those newly legal immigrants are becoming citizens, they are eligible to sponsor
the immigration of their families, driving up the numbers, according to the INS.

The presence of foreign workers also is growing. Employers sponsored 117,499
legal immigrants last year, up almost 38 percent from a year earlier.

Congress considered and rejected restrictions on the immigration of families and
workers last year as it rewrote many of the rules covering immigration.

The lead sponsor of the House version of the rule changes, U.S. Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, who had pushed for limits on legal immigration, will not make a
similar effort this year despite his dismay at the new numbers.

Smith, who is chairman of the House Immigration subcommittee, suggested Tuesday
that many legal immigrants are unskilled, and he referred to U.S. Census data
showing that at least 35 percent of the foreign-born adults living in the United
States last year were not high school graduates.

"Over the next five years," Smith suggested, "America will admit 2 million
immigrants who lack a high school education and are unskilled. They will compete
directly with 2 million citizens who must leave welfare and find jobs. It makes
no sense to force American citizens - many of whom are minorities - to compete
with new immigrants for scarce unskilled jobs."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: The largest influx came from Mexico, which accounted for 18 percent.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              69 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 3, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

100 CENTRAL AMERICANS WON'T BE DEPORTED FROM FLORIDA

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer2

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 280 words


Nearly 100 Central Americans are expected to be freed from detention centers in
South Florida as a humanitarian gesture to avoid deporting them to their
flood-ravaged homelands, officials said Wednesday.

''The last thing those governments need is people coming back into the country
without resources,'' said Andrew Lluberes, a spokesman for the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Miami.

The agency said as many as 3,000 immigrants awaiting deportation to Honduras,
Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala could be released nationwide on a
case-by-case basis. They will be required to report periodically and stay under
INS supervision.

The federal government last month announced it was suspending, until Jan. 7, all
deportations of illegal immigrants to the four countries hardest hit by
Hurricane Mitch.

Miami officials will help find jobs for the immigrants before they are released,
said Dan Kane, an INS spokesman at the Krome Detention Center west of Miami.
Immigrants convicted of violent crimes are not eligible for release.

LLuberes said 55 immigrants will be freed over the next few days from Krome.
Another 40 held by INS in Bradenton on Florida's southwest coast could also be
released.

The actions of the Clinton administration brought praise from an official of the
Honduras Relief Fund of Palm Beach County.

''It would be like putting salt on an injury to send more people to Central
America,'' Oscar Bendeck said.''Those countries can barely manage as it is.''

Krome had already released eight immigrants on Monday from the four countries.

''These persons pose no risk, and all have some ties to the community,''
Lluberes said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all Editions

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              70 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 26, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

NEW ADMINISTRATOR POLISHES KROME CENTER FOR DETAINEES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1185 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The first time Ed Stubbs saw Krome Detention Center after being offered the job
as administrator, he was bewildered by the disordered cluster of dormitories and
the endless sweep of barbed wire and fences.

''I looked around and I said, 'No way,' '' said Stubbs, who was enjoying his
government career as the award-winning chief U.S. marshal in West Palm Beach.

But when he left the camp west of Miami and returned to his home in Jupiter, a
question stirred in his mind: ''How difficult can it be?''

Ever since he became Krome's administrator in September, the question has
lingered.

''I knew they were looking for certain skills for this job,'' said Stubbs, 45.
''I just didn't know I would have to employ them every minute of every day.''

Krome, which opened 18 years ago to deal with waves of immigrants coming from
Cuba and Haiti, detains immigrants who are caught in the country illegally or
who have criminal records that make them deportable. The U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service spends $ 23 million a year to house immigrants at Krome
and four county jails in Florida.

Stubbs, who earns $ 97,000 a year, is responsible for the 400 immigrants in
custody at Krome, an abandoned Nike missile base at the edge of the Everglades.
Eight acting administrators who preceded him in two years were swamped by
complaints of illegal detention and mistreatment of immigrants from lawyers and
community leaders.

''Various teams came down here from Washington asking, 'What's wrong with
Krome?' '' said Stubbs, sitting in his outdated wood-paneled office in the
immigration camp.

Stubbs arrived Sept. 14 with two new top assistants and a pledge to treat the
immigrants with dignity and respect. He set out to improve the performance of
the 340 employees and correct problems that saddled Krome with years of bad
press.

District Director Bob Wallis of INS Florida said he was looking for a
people-manager rather than a rules expert.

''Mr. Stubbs fit the bill,'' Wallis said. ''In the short time he's been there,
I've been very pleased.''

''He's someone who is offering leadership and stability to a detention facility
that desperately needs it,'' said Dan Kane, an INS spokesman. ''He's not afraid
to make controversial changes.''

One of Stubbs' first moves was to rip out the maze of interior fences, gates and
barbed wire, which he said served no security purpose, but contributed to the
camp's ''stalag-type atmosphere.''

Workers painted gray buildings teal and white. Visiting hours were expanded.

And Stubbs won $ 3.3 million to remodel the clinic, redesign the men's
dormitory, build a family and children's dormitory and expand the cramped
building where newcomers are processed.

Stubbs doubled the number of detention supervisors from five to 10. Cultural
awareness training for employees began two weeks ago. A public affairs assistant
charged with improving Krome's image will be hired soon.

The new director draws qualified praise from immigrants and their advocates.

''He's doing a good job,'' said Ricardo Reyes, a former Lake Worth resident held
at Krome for the past three months. ''I got no problem with the man.''

''I hold out hope he's the man who's going to make substantial changes,'' said
Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.
''That remains to be seen. It's almost an impossible job, to be honest.''

Little said Krome has many faults. Its law library is open only 13 hours a week
and fits only eight detainees at a time. The clinic is too small and is often
unsanitary, she said.

Krome detainee Lugseged Dhine said the clinic's staff is indifferent and
disorganized.

''The care is the same as putting a Band-Aid over a bullet hole,'' said Dhine,
an Ethiopian immigrant who acts as a ''jailhouse lawyer'' because he speaks nine
languages and is familiar with immigration law.

Dhine says Stubbs is the first administrator to take responsibility for Krome's
shortcomings. But he said Stubbs is powerless to change the laws that send
detainees there in the first place.

A law passed two years ago allowed the INS to detain convicted criminals without
a hearing or bond. Those who fight deportation or are immigrants from countries
that refuse to accept them have no choice but to wait in detention.

There are about 90 of those immigrants at Krome, including 33-year-old Ralph
Richardson, who was convicted of cocaine trafficking nine years ago and made the
mistake of leaving the country to visit family in Haiti. On his return,
immigration agents identified him as a convicted felon and ordered his
detention.

A legal resident of the United States for 31 years, Richardson sued the
immigration service for illegal detention. The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in
Atlanta ruled this month in favor of the INS, keeping Richardson behind bars.

The stay for criminal aliens at Krome is indefinite. Stubbs says the typical
detainee who is caught sneaking into the country is just 30 or 40 days. Those
without criminal records can be released if they are in good health, have ties
to the community or promise to attend deportation hearings.

Stubbs said the criminal immigrants sleep and eat apart from Krome's other
detainees. They're easy to tell apart. Criminals wear red jump suits as uniforms
and non-criminals wear orange.

The 66 women held in Krome also sleep in their own dormitory. Mothers with
children and minors without parents in the United States live under supervision
away from Krome.

Cubans and Haitians make up about two-thirds of the camp's detainees but other
nationalities abound. During one day earlier this month, 416 detainees
represented 48 countries.

Since arriving in September, Stubbs makes a habit of walking around the camp to
listen to detainees' complaints. Although he has pledged to maintain respect and
dignity, he doesn't discount the reasons people are sent to Krome.

''To enter the United States illegally is against the law,'' Stubbs said.

IN CUSTODY

The following are the various nationalities of immigrants at Krome Detention
Center:

Country No. of detainees

    Cuba              102
   Haiti              97
   Jamaica            31
   Mexico             22
   Honduras           15
   Nicaragua          14
   Colombia           11
   Sri Lanka          11
   China              10
   Guyana             10
   Guatemala           9
   El Salvador         8
   Bahamas             7
   India               5
   Dominican Republic  4
   Ecuador             4


Countries represented by three detainees or fewer:

Canada, France, Laos, Lebanon, Nigeria, Somalia, Spain, Trinidad, Venezuela,
Algeria, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Pakistan, Portugal, Bangladesh, Brazil,
Ethiopia, Korea, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Russia, S. Africa, St. Vincent,
Sudan, Sweden, Turkey, England, Uruguay, Vietnam, Yugoslavia.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Photo by BILL COOKE, Before Ed Stubbs became administrator
of Krome Detention Center, he was a U.S. marshal

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              71 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 27, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION PAPERWORK TURNS DREAM TRIP INTO NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: Tim O'Meilia, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


As a reward for the way Pius Dawson managed the four Giorgio's clothing stores
here, his boss sent him and his wife on a Caribbean cruise.

"It was a wonderful trip," Dawson said Wednesday of the vacation paid for by
Giorgio's owner, George Sharoubim.

The trouble began when the ship docked and he went through customs.

During the two months since, Dawson has been handcuffed, spent two nights in a
orange jumpsuit in the Krome Detention Center in Miami, been deported and been
arrested in Germany. Now he sits in a Milan, Italy, hotel, trying to piece his
life back together.

All because the British-born Dawson didn't obtain a green residency card after
he married an American four years ago.

"I never really got around to putting in the paperwork," he said.

His visitor's visa had expired and he said customs agents told him to bring $
120 and some paperwork a month later to the immigration office in Riviera Beach.
When he arrived, he was handcuffed, put in a van and driven to Krome.

"It was shocked out of my socks when he said I was being held and deported,"
said Dawson, 43, who had told co-workers he would be back in a hour. It's been
more than a month.

Dawson spent three days at the detention center for illegal immigrants, calling
Sharoubim's lawyer, Ron Kolins, with his single phone call.

"It's an experience I wouldn't wish on anyone," Dawson said. "It was dirty.
Cockroaches ran all over. I didn't go to the bathroom the whole time because
everyone was watching."

Kolins said he made an agreement with INS officials that would allow Dawson to
leave the country voluntarily. Kolins bought the plane ticket, but Dawson, who
was not allowed to have anyone but INS agents accompany him to the airport,
signed a paper saying he was being voluntarily deported.

The distinction between voluntarily leaving and being voluntarily deported is
huge. It means Dawson cannot apply to come back to the U.S. for five years,
instead of beginning the process immediately, said INS spokesman Maria Elena
Garcia.

Sharoubim, who was in Milan at the time, brought Dawson there and set him up as
a liaison between Giorgio's and the factories he buys from in Italy.

"Everything happens for a reason," Dawson said. "George had been telling me that
I need to get to Italy to understand the other part of the business."

Then this month, Dawson flew to Frankfurt to obtain a copy of a divorce decree
from his first wife, so he could include it in his U.S. immigration application.
He was arrested by German customs, who had a warrant, several years old, for his
arrest.

"The odd thing was I'd been in Hamburg only two weeks earlier," he said.

The warrant charges Dawson and two other officers of the now-defunct
Multicultural Society with spending $ 20,000 in German government grants on the
wrong programs. The other two officers have not been found.

Dawson, who had lived in Germany for 21 years before coming to the U.S. in 1995
to work for Saks, had helped start the now-defunct Multicultural Society, which
helped integrate rural former Eastern Europeans into German society with
language classes, job training and the like.

He said he left the group before any of the misspending began. Nevertheless, he
paid the $ 20,000 after friends helped him raise it, and a German judge let him
leave the country. He said he has a hearing next month to try to persuade a
German judge he was not responsible and to get his money back.

Once that is cleared up, Dawson said a Miami immigration lawyer will begin the
process to try get him readmitted to the U.S.

Store owner Sharoubim - who is flying Dawson's wife, Jacqueline, to Italy Friday
to be with her husband - said he is supporting Dawson because of his loyalty and
dedication.

"I can leave the company in his hands," he said.

Meanwhile, Dawson is learning another side of the clothing business.

"If it weren't for George, I wouldn't care about coming back to the United
States," Dawson said. "George has been a great friend."

tim_omeilia@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, Dawson: 'It's an experience I wouldn't wish on anyone.' (mug

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              72 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 28, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

BILL WOULD EASE FOREIGN FARM WORKER RULES

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With growers nationwide facing a shortage of legal farm workers, a group of
bipartisan lawmakers unveiled a plan Wednesday to reform the foreign farm worker
program.

"The current system is a mess," said Sen. Bob Graham, D-Miami Lakes, one of the
bill's sponsors. Passing the bill, to be introduced shortly, will put American
farmers in the position of "not having to rely on a substantial percentage of
illegal workers to perform America's agricultural work."

Critics of the system now in use - commonly known as the H2A guest worker
program - say it is too cumbersome and takes too long for growers to be able to
hire foreign workers. The result, they say, is a flood of illegal workers who
often are taken advantage of and who live in constant fear of being deported.

Farm worker advocates do not embrace the H2A program, but they opposed Graham's
effort last year to reform it, arguing that his bill did not do enough to
protect workers.

Graham's new plan, which is expected to be introduced soon in both houses of
Congress, would immediately grant temporary legal status to an estimated 600,000
illegal farm workers.

Those workers could gain permanent residency status if they continued to work in
agriculture for at least 150 days during five out of the next seven years.

The bill would require growers to first offer jobs to domestic farm workers
listed on a database to be maintained by the U.S. Department of Labor, which has
such a system for non-farm employment.

If no domestic workers were available, growers then would be allowed to bring in
foreign workers on a temporary basis under a streamlined H2A program.

Workers would receive at least the federal minimum wage, employer-provided
housing or a housing allotment and transportation if they were required to move
more than 100 miles. Growers would be responsible for paying all these costs.

A similar bill passed the Senate 68-31 last year, but it ran into strong
opposition in the House.

Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Wash., said the new plan faces "an uphill fight."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              73 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 28, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA GETS JOBBED

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 415 words


Florida officials will continue benefits to legal immigrants because the welfare
"reform" bill President Clinton signed in August shuts both legal and illegal
immigrants out of America's welfare system. But fairness isn't the only issue.
Ending benefits so quickly could create more social problems and cost more
money.

In Palm Beach County and throughout Florida, people who have entered this
country legally will see little change for now. In some states, legal immigrants
are being told they are no longer eligible for food stamps. But the federal
legislation allows states to continue cash assistance and health care through
Medicaid. Florida will, providing those benefits to more than 170,000 people,
most in Dade County and many elderly.

An estimated 4,665 legal immigrants live in Palm Beach County. The next time
they visit food-stamp offices for their six-month eligiblity review, they will
be given a six-month extension. Illegal immigrants in Palm Beach County will
still be eligible for emergency medical care, including obstetrical care and
treatment for AIDS.

Florida's version of welfare reform, known as WAGES (Work and Gain Economic
Self-Sufficiency), goes into effect Tuesday. One change recipients will notice
immediately is $ 50 less in their monthly check. Previously, they received up to
the first $ 50 in child support collected as an incentive to cooperate with
Child Support Enforcement officials. Since that money had been counted as income
in calculating benefits, however, the nearly 1,200 recipients in Palm Beach
County may be eligible for more food stamps.

Local officials are still struggling to understand what's in the large and
complex federal welfare bill. Last week, for example, states realized that a
little-noticed provision will cut 15 percent from the $ 2.8 billion Social
Services Block Grant starting Tuesday. Nationally, that means a $ 420 million
reduction. In Palm Beach County, it means $ 480,933 less for social workers'
salaries and $ 326,546 less for child care.

That makes no sense when HRS and other agencies are trying to move welfare
recipients into jobs - requiring more, not less money for child care. But
welcome to Welfare Reform 1996. In many instances, the national legislation is
less reform than simple budget cuts.

Florida officials will work to soften the effect of the more senseless cuts. But
for states, reducing federal money at this time makes an already difficult
reform effort a great deal harder.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              74 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 17, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

STILL HARVESTING SHAME

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 402 words


A farm-labor "reform" that could allow a new wave of illegal immigration while
lowering pay and working conditions for laborers has been tacked onto a Senate
spending bill after virtually no discussion. During House-Senate discussions,
lawmakers should remove it.

Sponsors of the legislation say the existing program for immigrant farm workers,
known as H-2A, is burdensome and costly. Rather than seek American workers
privately before bringing in foreign workers, farmers would go to a Department
of Labor registry. Rather than pay higher rates for foreign workers, farmers
would pay the same as for domestic workers. This is a good deal for the farmers
and a rotten one for the workers.


The only burden imposed by H-2A is that farmers must try to get domestic workers
before hiring foreign workers. Two Palm Beach County farms sought H-2A workers
last year, but one application was withdrawn and the second denied. Under the
registry, the federal government would do farmers' recruiting for them, at
taxpayers' expense.

The registry would have only 14 days to produce workers or declare they were not
available, which in practice would mean the latter. Farmers then would be free
to bring in workers, many of whom would disappear into the illegal job market.
During the early 1980s, 30 percent of the Jamaican cane cutters brought in
legally stayed on illegally, according to Greg Schell of the Migrant Farmworker
Justice Project.

That's just one of the problems with this bill. Instead of providing housing for
the immigrants, farmers could provide vouchers that would be inadequate; the
rate in Palm Beach County, for example, would be $ 120 a month. Wage standards
for domestic and foreign workers would be equalized at a level that in Florida
would be 5 percent higher for the domestic workers who won't be hired and 20
percent lower for the foreign workers who will be. Also, farmers could choose a
piece-rate system as long as the "average" pay met minimum standards, which
means some workers could get a lot less.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., is a chief sponsor. This is not the first time Sen.
Graham, normally a progressive legislator, has been on the wrong side of a farm
labor issue. He supported efforts that stripped farm workers of the right to sue
when injured in an unsafe vehicle. The new initiative never would have passed as
a separate bill. It should not pass on the sly.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              75 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 12, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

BECOMING A CITIZEN GETS EASIER IN OCTOBER

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


The road to citizenship will get a lot shorter this fall.

For the past eight months, residents filing citizenship petitions had to travel
to Miami for interviews and swearing-in ceremonies.

Beginning Oct. 1, applicants will be able to do everything through the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service regional office at 4360 Northlake Blvd.

Miami's INS offices are flooded with an estimated 10,000 citizenship
applications each month. About 800 of those come from residents living in the
eight counties serviced by the Northlake office, said Jack Bulger, INS
citizenship coordinator in Miami.

More applications are expected in coming months because of action by Congress to
reduce food stamps, Medicaid and other benefits to noncitizens.

The Palm Beach Gardens office should reduce the application bottleneck in Miami
and make it easier for local residents to apply, said West Palm Beach City
Commissioner Al Zucaro.

The city's Hispanic-American Advisory Board often hears complaints about the
lack of citizenship proceedings in the area, Zucaro said. The renewed service
here should mean faster service and few misplaced application files.

"It's an effort to become a little bit more user friendly," said Zucaro, an
immigration attorney.

The Northlake office serves Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Indian River,
Okeechobee, Glades, Hendry and Highlands counties.

The INS plans to start citizenship processing at its Orlando office in
mid-September, Bulger said.

Besides taking applications, the mandatory swearing-in ceremonies for new
citizens will be held in Palm Beach County, he said.

To handle the demand for citizenship, the INS conducts massive swearing-in
ceremonies in Miami each Sunday.

To order forms to start the citizenship process, call (800) 870-3676 for
instructions in English and Spanish.

HOW TO GET STARTED

To order forms to start the citizenship process, call (800) 870-3676 for
instructions in both English and Spanish.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL. Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              76 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               August 12, 1996, Monday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BECOMING A CITIZEN GETS EASIER THIS FALL

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


The road to citizenship will get a lot shorter this fall.

For the past eight months, residents filing citizenship petitions had to travel
to Miami for interviews and swearing-in ceremonies.

Beginning Oct. 1, applicants will be able to do everything through the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service regional office at 4360 Northlake Blvd.

Miami's INS offices are flooded with an estimated 10,000 citizenship
applications each month. About 800 applications per month come from residents
living in the eight counties serviced by the Northlake office, said Jack Bulger,
INS citizenship coordinator in Miami.

More applications are expected in coming months because of action by Congress to
reduce food stamps, Medicaid and other benefits to noncitizens.

The Palm Beach Gardens office should reduce the application bottleneck in Miami
and make it easier for local residents to apply, said West Palm Beach City
Commissioner Al Zucaro.

The city's Hispanic-American Advisory Board often hears complaints about the
lack of citizenship proceedings in the area, Zucaro said. The renewed service
here should mean faster service and few misplaced application files.

"It's an effort to become a little bit more user-friendly," said Zucaro, an
immigration attorney.

The Northlake office serves Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Indian River,
Okeechobee, Glades, Hendry and Highlands counties.

The INS plans to start citizenship processing at its Orlando office in
mid-September, Bulger said.

Besides taking applications, the mandatory swearing-in ceremonies for new
citizens will be held in Palm Beach County, he said.

To handle the demand for citizenship, the INS conducts massive swearing-in
ceremonies in Miami each Sunday.

On most Sundays, 6,000 people go to the James L. Knight Convention Center to
receive citizenship, Bulger said.

HOW TO GET STARTED

To order forms to start the citizenship process, call (800) 870-3676 for
instructions in both English and Spanish.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              77 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 8, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

ELECTION-YEAR 'THEATER' SLOWS IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A proposal to reform immigration laws has been delayed because House Republican
leaders insist that it include a controversial provision: an amendment that
would allow states to deny free education to children who are living illegally
in the United States.

It's the toughest of the get-tough measures in the House and Senate immigration
bills, but it's one that could help Republican presidential nominee Bob Dole win
votes in California.

"Instead of policy-making, it's political gamesmanship," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which opposes many of the
measures in the immigration bills. "It's not about whether the bill's good or
needs to be enacted, but about what's going to happen on Election Day."

Sharry is stating what Democrats and Republicans admit privately but are
unwilling to discuss publicly about the process of legislating in a presidential
election year.

A Washington Post editorial last week called the process election-year
"theater": "The idea is not so much to legislate as to create legislative
backdrops against which your side will, you think, look good and the other side
bad."

In the case of the immigration bill, the legislative backdrop is the education
amendment to the House bill, sponsored by Rep. El-ton Gallegly, R-Calif.

Republican leaders fear that if they remove the Gallegly amendment, a final
immigration bill could pass both houses of Congress, giving President Clinton
the opportunity to sign it into law and snag the credit for being tough on
immigration.

As a result, they are jockeying to preserve the Gallegly amendment, get it past
heavy opposition in the Senate and force Clinton to honor his promise to veto
any bill restricting education of illegal-immigrant children.

Republicans then could crow that Clinton favors illegal immigrants at the
expense of taxpayers - a message that would be potent with California voters.

But the strategy may end up killing immigration reform where it lies now, in
congressional limbo in two separate bills.

The Gallegly amendment was added to the House bill in late March by a vote of
257-163 after House Speaker Newt Gingrich made a rare appearance on the House
floor to endorse it. The House bill containing the amendment passed 333-87.

Gallegly's education measure was never offered in the Senate, which passed its
immigration bill, 97-3, in early May. Since then, at least 41 senators have gone
on record against withholding education from illegal-immigrant children, raising
the specter of a filibuster of any final bill containing the Gallegly amendment.

House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, said the filibuster threat has kept
House leaders from naming members to a conference committee that would work out
differences between the versions of the legislation.

The possibility of boosting Dole's standing in California is "probably a side
benefit" of a tough immigration bill, DeLay said, adding that the bigger goal is
"for us to comply with the wishes of the majorities in the states."

Sharry disagrees, citing two recent polls - one by Gannett and one by CBS and
The New York Times - showing public opinion against the education limits
proposed in the Gallegly amendment.

"If they want a bill to pass, they'll drop the education ban," Sharry said. "If
they want a political issue, they'll keep it."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              78 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 27, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CLINTON ACCUSED OF FORCING CHANGES IN IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton is willing to stall federal spending for some of the largest
government agencies to force changes in the immigration bill now pending in the
Senate, according to House Republicans.

Clinton said Thursday that he was looking to resolve disagreements over
immigration "in the context of the continuing resolution," the broad spending
bill that would provide money to operate the departments of labor, health and
human services, treasury, commerce, state, justice and interior, plus defense
appropriations and foreign operations.

Spending authority at the agencies expires at midnight Monday, well after
members of Congress hope to have left Washington and started campaigning in
their districts for the Nov. 5 elections. Those double deadlines - combined with
the blame Republicans are still receiving for the government shutdowns last
winter - give Clinton extra leverage to demand changes in the immigration bill
as a condition for his OK of the spending package.

"Nobody from the White House is saying we've got a problem with the continuing
resolution," said House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas. "They're saying
they've got a problem with immigration."

Clinton would not specify his newest objection to the immigration bill, but
Armey said White House negotiators identified the severe time and income limits
that the bill would impose on legal immigrants who otherwise qualify for federal
benefits.

"This is offensive to the liberal wing of the Democratic party," Armey said,
"and that's what bothers Bill Clinton, but it is exactly common sense to the
American people."

The immigration bill, approved Wednesday in the House by a margin of more than
2-1, contains new measures to curb illegal immigration, coupled with provisions
that would impose deportation or withhold naturalization for legal immigrants
who accepted public benefits.

Until the last two days, Clinton had said only that he objected to a House
proposal to allow states to curtail public schooling of illegal-immigrant
children. That proposal, known as the Gallegly amendment for its chief sponsor,
was removed from the final bill.

"I'm gratified that we got the Gallegly amendment out of the immigration bill,"
Clinton said Thursday. "I thought that was the right thing to do, certainly the
right thing for children."

Clinton said he would withhold further comment because of "intense negotiations"
between White House staff and Senate leaders, who now have limited time to pass
important legislation.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              79 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 12, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CLINTON, DOLE SIDESTEP DEBATE OVER TOUGHER IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When Bob Dole and President Clinton injected themselves into the congressional
debate over toughening immigration laws, they sent a clear signal that the issue
was important to their presidential campaigns.

That was last month.

Now, with the election less than four weeks away, neither candidate is publicly
asserting the strong positions that each took last month with lawmakers who were
hammering out the immigration reform bill.

"It's not a clean shot for either side," said Cecilia Mu noz, Washington
lobbyist for the National Council of La Raza, a Washington-based umbrella
organization of Hispanic groups. "Both candidates have some credibility in
showing that they can be tough on immigration, and both have some liabilities."

The credits and liabilities are magnified in a presidential campaign in which
the states most affected by immigration - California, Florida, Texas and New
York - are the foundation of an electoral victory. But even in those states,
there is little agreement on immigration, compounding the difficulty of making
reform a national issue.

"There are three issues hitting California right now: immigration, affirmative
action and taxes," said Roberto Deposada, executive director of the
Washington-based Hispanic Business Roundtable. "But Dole goes to California and
talks about drugs. I understand if you go to Texas and don't talk about
immigration. People in Texas have a different idea about immigration. But
California?"

Both sides downplay issue

Both the Dole and Clinton campaigns acknowledge that their presidential
candidates are not talking up immigration reform.

"It is an issue on which Senator Dole's positions are known," said Dole campaign
spokeswoman Christina Martin. The Dole campaign is also married to its theme of
tax cuts and teen drug abuse, even in California, where campaign spokesman Dale
Neugebauer described immigration as "a pocketbook issue" that has Californians
"really unhappy with President Clinton."

Nevertheless, "the focus has been on the economy and the teen drug-use message,"
Neugebauer said, "but Senator Dole was critical of President Clinton's failure
to secure the borders."

Clinton is not talking about immigration because he is being presidential, said
campaign spokeswoman Lisa Davis.

"The president has approached immigration as one of presidential policy and not
a campaign year political football, and that's why he's kind of kept it off the
stage," Davis said. "It's not a politicized issue. It's a serious issue he's
addressing as president."

Neither can claim victory

Another reason the candidates may not be talking about immigration is that
neither side can claim a clear victory in the legislative battle.

Clinton insisted that the immigration legislation be stripped of the measures
that were toughest on children and legal immigrants. Nevertheless, Dole can't
accuse Clinton of being soft on immigration because the president signed the
final bill, which sets stiffer penalties for illegal immigration and forces more
self-reliance among legal immigrants and their families.

Clinton, in turn, can say that he already got tough on immigrants by cutting
public benefits under the welfare reform bill that he signed in August. But the
welfare bill has infuriated immigrants and their advocates, who have no love for
Dole because he supported a portion of the bill that would have allowed states
to deny free education to illegal-immigrant children. That measure was taken out
under the threat of a veto from Clinton.

Issue could cost votes

"These guys don't want to talk about it," said Dan Stein, executive director of
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based group that
supports limits on legal and illegal immigration. "Candidates are interested in
talking about issues that are politically safe, boring."

In talking about limits on immigration, "yeah, you're going to pick up votes,"
Stein said, "but you're also going to pick up negatives."

Dole, for instance, is "having trouble in Florida because of the Republican
position on immigration," said Mu noz.

Cubans in Florida are getting "a pretty rude awakening" to the limits that the
immigration and welfare bills could impose on public benefits, said Cheryl
Little, an attorney with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.
Although President Clinton signed the bills, they were largely written by
Republicans, who traditionally have enjoyed Cuban support.

"It looks like there's a chance that could change this year," Little said.

Republicans in particular are worried about the loyalties of the new voters
among the 1.1 million immigrants who have become new citizens this year, sworn
in at mass ceremonies sponsored by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"Where possible and when possible, we were right there at the INS ceremonies
registering people to vote," said Lydia Camarillo, executive director of the
Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, based in San Antonio. The
project signed up 400,000 new Hispanic voters in Texas this year, boosting the
total number of Hispanic voters to 1.6 million in the state.

The voter project is nonpartisan - "we don't care how they vote; we just want to
make sure people vote," Camarillo said - but the immigration issue was clearly
behind the project's push for new voters.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
ELECTION '96

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (B&W) & PHOTO (3 B&W), 1. LINA LAWSON/Staff Artist, ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION, The estimated number of illegal immigrants, and the top five states
in which they live., Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, 2. Bill
Clinton (mug), 3. Bob Dole (mug), 4. Ross Perot (mug)

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              80 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 12, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

HISPANICS TO MARCH IN EFFORT TO FIGHT 'ANTI-LATINO CLIMATE'

BYLINE: EUNICE MOSCOSO

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands of Hispanics from across the country will celebrate Columbus Day on
the streets of Washington, demanding civil rights and respect for immigrant
groups.

"We're experiencing an anti-Latino climate," said Juan Jose Gutierrez, national
coordinator for today's march, referring to recent legislative efforts that he
says have unfairly targeted Hispanics.

"We are Americans too" who work hard for our families and the country, he said.
"This rally is our own welcome home."

The march was organized by Coordinadora '96, a coalition of labor unions,
Hispanic community and civil rights organizations, immigrant rights groups and
others.

The coalition's platform calls for equal opportunity and affirmative action,
free public education for all, expansion of health services, citizen police
review boards, a $ 7-an-hour minimum wage and a streamlined citizenship
application process.

In many ways, the march is a political response to recent measures spearheaded
by the Republican-led Congress such as tough new immigration legislation and
efforts to end affirmative action programs, deny benefits to legal residents and
make English the official language.

Gutierrez denied that the rally, which he called "a giant get-up-and-vote
message," is partisan, and says Hispanics will benefit from becoming more
involved in "all" politics.

However, the program features at least four speakers from the heavily
pro-Democratic AFL-CIO labor confederation. There are only two sponsoring
organizations from Florida, where the Hispanic population is overwhelmingly
Republican, while Texas, California, Illinois and New York each have more than
30 sponsoring organizations.

They include groups such as the Nicaragua Solidarity Network of Greater New
York, the United Puerto Ricans of Chicago and the Mexican-American Democrats of
Texas.

Some statements on the World Wide Web page set up to organize the march clearly
jab at the Republican Party. For example, a call to action refers to the
"so-called Contract With America" as an element of "the program of corporate and
reactionary America."

Still, Gutierrez said the rally is in no way a Democratic push for President
Clinton a month before the election.

He said the Oct. 12 date was chosen because it is celebrated throughout Latin
America as "El Dia de la Raza," commemorating the birth of a new race as
Europeans came to the new world and mixed with indigenous peoples.

This Columbus Day weekend promises to be a busy one in the nation's capital. In
addition to the Hispanic march, about 750,000 visitors are expected to witness
the AIDS Quilt display on the Mall in remembrance of those who have died of the
disease.

In addition, much of Pennsylvania Avenue will be lined with food displays as the
yearly Taste of Washington celebration shares the spotlight.

"A change of date was unacceptable," said Gutierrez, who began planning the
march two years ago, a year before Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan
brought hundreds of thousands of African-American to the capital for a "day of
atonement."

"This is not a copy of the Million Man March," Gutierrez said.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              81 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                December 3, 1996, Tuesday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 425 words


WEST PALM BEACH

Paulette Cone, the Lake Worth woman whose adoptive daughter was killed two years
ago when a lid on her crib fell on her, was found guilty of trying to buy
cocaine from an undercover police officer Monday, a charge that could send her
back to her native Canada under current deportation laws. Judge Roger Colton
again denied Cone's request to withdraw her no contest plea and sentenced Cone
to time served - 125 days in jail. But Cone, 47, remained in jail Monday night
at the request of immigration officials, who will consider deporting her based
on her drug conviction. Typically, a noncitizen can be eligible for deportation
if convicted of a felony drug charge, an immigration official said. Cone has
lived in the United States for 37 years, her attorney said. An immigration judge
will decide if Cone should stay in this country.

WEST PALM BEACH

Joanne Hohenberg brought a plane ticket with her to court Monday, hoping to take
4-year-old Robert Cumley - known as "the poor little rich boy" at the state
Department of Children and Families - back to Tennessee with her, but she left
disappointed. Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Hubert Lindsey postponed a hearing
for custody of Robert, the great-great-grandson of New York financier and
philanthropist Otto Kahn, until Robert's mother could be found. Robert, now in a
Tequesta psychiatric hospital, was placed in a number of foster homes after his
father abused him and his mother abandoned him. Hohenberg, a friend of the
family, is seeking custody. Frank Kreidler, the attorney for Robert's mother,
said Monday he wasn't notified of the hearing in time to have her travel from
Wisconsin to Florida. Lindsey also ordered an independent psychiatric evaluation
for Robert.

STUART

Circuit Judge John Fennelly on Monday tentatively set Alan Mackerley's
kidnapping and first-degree murder trial for October after defense attorney Jeff
Weiner waived his client's right to a speedy trial. Mackerley is charged with
murdering his former New Jersey business rival, Frank Black, who disappeared
Feb. 24 after arriving at Palm Beach International Airport. Black thought he was
meeting a woman to discuss a business deal, but detectives say the woman was
Mackerley's girlfriend, Lisa Costello. She has been jailed since June on a
contempt of court charge for refusing to tell prosecutors what she knows about
Black's disappearance. Mackerley is being held without bail in the Martin County
Jail. Prosecutors said they will seek the death penalty if Mackerley is
convicted.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              82 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              December 20, 1996, Friday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 378 words


STUART - Three men were arrested by Florida Highway Patrol troopers Thursday on
kidnapping and aggravated assault charges after four men were seen struggling in
a car that veered off the road on Interstate 95 in Broward County around noon.
Clement Success, 37, of 3134 S.E. Indian St. in Stuart, jumped from the car and
told troopers he had been kidnapped at gunpoint from his home in Stuart.
Troopers arrested Joseph Maniese, 36, of Fort Lauderdale; Michael Delano, 30, of
North Miami Beach; and Nerlin Bellott, 22, of Miami.

STUART - A former Drug Enforcement Administration informant who spent nearly
four years in prison for extorting about $ 60,000 from a Port St. Lucie
physician in 1991 was deported to his home country of Lebanon last week,
immigration officials said Thursday. Immigration agents escorted Marwan
Abouraad, 34, out of the country Saturday as a convicted felony alien, INS agent
Bill West said. Circuit Judge Dwight Geiger originally sentenced Abouraad to 12
years in prison, but an appeals court ordered the sentence reduced to 3 1/2
years and the Lebanon native was freed from the Martin County Jail in September.
Abouraad, who bragged about his ties to Lebanese terrorist organizations, has
twice before entered the United States using a fake passport and was convicted
of entering the country illegally. He once earned a six-figure salary as a
confidential informant for the DEA. "If we get any hint that he's back, we will
do every effort to locate him and prosecute him for what could be a 20-year
felony," West said. "He's one that deserved to be deported."

FORT PIERCE - A skeleton believed to be that of a Port St. Lucie man who plunged
off the South Beach Bridge Nov. 8 was found on the shore of the Indian River
Lagoon Wednesday afternoon, Fort Pierce police said.  The skeleton was found by
Indian River Drive resident Bernard McBee, who told police he spotted the bones
while walking on the beach. Paul Gollotti of Port St. Lucie has been missing
since he jumped off the South Beach Bridge in early November. A human arm found
earlier has been identified as Gollotti's by the medical examiner's office. Dr.
Fred Hobin has classified the death as accidental and tests are under way to
positively identify the skeleton.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              83 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 22, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

GUATEMALANS SAY THEY FEEL MISTREATED

BYLINE: SIOBHAN MORRISSEY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


The busload of Guatemalan farm workers never made it to DuBois Farms in suburban
Boynton Beach last month.

Immigration officers stopped the bus and one of them boarded it. Without asking
for identification papers, the officer handcuffed the driver and commandeered
the bus to transport scores of farm workers picked up during an immigration
sweep Nov. 25.

Bus owner Juan Diego Gaspar told that story Saturday night to an audience of
about 100 fellow Guatemalans at the Maya School in Lake Worth. Advocates for
Guatemalan farm workers hosted the gathering to address several concerns,
including the belief that immigration roundups are likely to increase soon in
light of a recent settlement between leftist guerrillas and the Guatemalan
government. The two sides have waged a long civil war that resulted in an
estimated 100,000 deaths and the disappearance of another 40,000 people.

Officials of the Guatemalan-Maya Center briefed the audience about their rights.
It was not possible to verify the stories told at the gathering because
immigration officials were not available late Saturday. But the law allows
immigration officers to conduct sweeps and detain suspected undocumented
workers.

The mostly male audience relayed how they feel mistreated even when they have
proper documentation.

But their biggest concern was the possibility of deportation. They feel
vulnerable because the civil war that has ravaged their country for 36 years is
ending, and with it their reason for political asylum in the United States. The
Guatemalan government is poised to sign a peace treaty with the rebels on Dec.
29.

While the prospect of peace is encouraging, many of the Guatemalans here said
they remain wary. They believe the peace will be on paper only, that guerrillas
will still wreak violence on them and their families if they return.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer, Guatemalans crowd into a
classroom Saturday night to discuss problems they say they have with immigration
agents.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              84 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 6, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO GET LETTER SOON ABOUT WELFARE CUTS

BYLINE: ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration began sending letters to 1 million legal immigrants
Wednesday telling them they might soon lose welfare benefits because they are
not citizens.

The letters went out as President Clinton prepared to ask a skeptical Congress
for more money to continue benefits for some of the immigrants scheduled to lose
aid under the new welfare law.

In his State of the Union Message on Tuesday, Clinton urged Congress to restore
health and disability benefits for noncitizens. "To do otherwise is simply
unworthy of a great nation of immigrants," he declared.

The deadline for mailing the letters is March 31, but administration officials
said they intended to send the notices over the next eight weeks.

The benefits, under the Supplemental Security Income program, average $ 410 a
month. The recipients all have very low incomes. Some are elderly; many are
disabled. Some live in nursing homes. Some have resided in the United States for
years but have not become citizens.

Each letter starts with this admonition: "Important notice. You may lose your
S.S.I."

It goes on to say the new welfare law, signed by Clinton on Aug. 22, allows SSI
benefits only for citizens and certain noncitizens, including refugees, military
veterans, active-duty members of the armed forces and people who have worked in
the United States for at least 10 years.

More than 320,000 letters are being sent to noncitizens in California. The next
biggest batch, more than 120,000, is going to New York state, with Florida and
Texas also getting large numbers.

The letters invite immigrants to notify any Social Security office if they
believe they qualify for benefits under one of the exceptions.

The savings in this program alone account for nearly one-fourth of all the
savings expected under the new welfare law: $ 13.3 billion of $ 54.6 billion
over seven years.

In his 1998 budget, to be issued today, Clinton will propose new spending to
soften the effects of the welfare law on poor people and immigrants. It appears
the proposals would restore 40 percent of all the money saved.

Yvette Jackson, deputy administrator of the Federal Food and Consumer Service,
said many legal immigrants also would lose food stamps from April 1 to Aug. 22.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              85 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 21, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW HAS IMMIGRANTS SAYING 'I DO'

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 314 words


Is it true love or passion for a green card?

A desire to avoid deportation may be pushing a 13 percent increase in marriage
licenses in Palm Beach County.

As in New York and Miami, many of the applicants are immigrants who are nervous
about a new deportation law taking effect April 1.

"The alien communities are buzzing with this thing," said Al Zucaro, a West Palm
Beach immigration attorney.

By marrying a U.S. citizen, undocumented immigrants can avoid deportation, get a
work authorization card and apply for residency status.

"Marriage, in almost all cases, is the magic solution," Zucaro said. "It's the
way to the least amount of obstacles to obtain permanent resident status."

County officials said they can't explain what's behind the increase in marriage
applications. Couples seeking licenses do not need to declare their immigration
status or citizenship.

"In essence, it's really none of our business," said Deputy Clerk Carol
Spainhower in the South County Courthouse in Delray Beach. She said the license
form asks for date and place of birth but not if the applicant is a legal
resident of the United States.

"I can't tell if they are immigrants who are U.S. citizens or immigrants who are
not citizens," said Deputy Clerk Carl Silverberg, who works in the Judicial
Center in West Palm Beach.

He said the county issued 691 marriage licenses in January, an increase of 75
over the same month last year. So far this month, marriages are running about 15
a day more than a year ago.

Miami, Florida's immigrant mecca, saw a 28 percent increase in applications for
marriage licenses in January. In New York, weddings are up 88 percent in
Manhattan and 118 percent in Queens.

The marriage route to legal residency is not without pitfalls. The U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service can deport immigrants who enter into sham
marriages.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              86 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 27, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

NICARAGUAN GROUP SUING

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A federal class-action lawsuit was filed Wednesday to block deportations of
Nicaraguans expected to be brought on by tougher immigration rules.

Alfonso Oviedo-Reyes, an attorney for the immigrant group Fraternidad
Nicaraguense, said he filed the suit in U.S. District Court in Miami and will
await a hearing. "The ball is in the government's court now," he said.

Federal legislation that takes effect Tuesday would end the special status that
has allowed Nicaraguans without legal residency to remain in the United States.

Lagos said about 45,000 Nicaraguans in South Florida would face deportation if
the new rules go into effect.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
In brief

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              87 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  April 1, 1997, Tuesday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 443 words


Prakash Pathmanathan, a biology teacher at Atlantic High School, was charged
with two counts of lewd assault and five counts of battery March 4, a jail
booking officer said. Pathmanathan, who has worked with the district since 1995,
paid $ 5,000 bond and was released the same day, the officer said. Students had
said Pathmanathan fondled them, school district spokeswoman Sue Walters said. As
soon as the principal learned of the allegations last fall, Pathmanathan was
transferred to an administrative job preparing tests for district-wide use,
district officials said. The state attorney's office is investigating, Walters
said.

PORT ST. LUCIE - Prosecutors in Troy, N.Y., believe a man who served three years
for a 1991 murder in Port St. Lucie has killed again. Steve L. Williamson, 33,
left a Florida prison in 1995 after serving three years of a seven-year sentence
because of Florida's gain-time rules. The Guyana native was to have been
deported upon his release, but he skipped out on the $ 10,000 Immigration and
Naturalization Services bail, authorities said. Now, Williams is being held by
immigration authorities in Troy, N.Y., where prosecutors say he is the prime
suspect in the death of his sister-in-law, Patricia Santana. Santana was stabbed
and beaten to death March 24 in her Troy residence.

PORT SALERNO

Dogs were reported stolen from the yards of two Golden Gate homes over the
weekend, according to Martin County sheriff's deputy reports. A 1-year-old
female red and white Siberian husky worth $ 750 was reported stolen from 2678
S.E. Amherst St. early Sunday after the owner hooked the dog to a run in the
back yard. A 10-month-old female pit bull was reported taken from a fenced dog
run five blocks away at 3260 S.E. Fairmont St. Friday night or early Saturday.
Animal Control officials said they are not aware of any other stolen dog reports
in the area in recent weeks.

PORT ST. LUCIE

Police officer Robert Santos could be suspended without pay for 10 days
following an investigation of charges he spent duty hours at his ex-girlfriend's
house. Neighbors said they often saw a patrol car at the woman's house and other
officers told investigators Santos sometimes failed to respond when they called
for assistance. Santos, 26, said he disagrees with the recommended suspension
and will file an appeal within 10 days. The investigation began in February when
the former girlfriend, April Adas, went to police and said she feared he would
harm her. She said Santos threatened her for showing people a tattoo on her leg
which depicts a Port St. Lucie police badge with his identification number on
it.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              88 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                April 1, 1997, Tuesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

RELEASED KILLER HELD IN SLAYING

BYLINE: NOAH BIERMAN

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE


Prosecutors in Troy, N.Y., believe a man who served three years for a 1991
murder in Port St. Lucie has killed again.

Steve L. Williamson, 33, left a Florida prison in 1995 after serving three years
of a seven-year sentence. Florida's gain-time rules intended to alleviate prison
crowding led to his early release.

The Guyana native was to have been deported upon his release, but he skipped out
on the $ 10,000 Immigration and Naturalization Services bail, authorities said.

Now, Williams is being held by immigration authorities in Troy, N.Y., where
prosecutors say he is the prime suspect in the death of his sister-in-law,
Patricia Santana.

Santana was stabbed and beaten to death March 24 in her Troy residence.
Neighbors called police after hearing the cries of Santana's 3-year-old
daughter, who was found bruised and beaten in the bloody apartment, according to
police and prosecutors.

New York newspapers report that the girl watched the assailant beat her mother
before she, too, was beaten.

Williamson had been married to the victim's sister for less than two weeks,
authorities said.

St. Lucie sheriff's Capt. Robert Miller said the news that Williamson may have
killed again would not surprise him.

In 1991, Miller helped investigate the scene where Williamson's friend and
roommate, Rambhajan "Greg" Hardeo, 57, was found bludgeoned to death while
sleeping. A large mallet covered with blood was found near the front of the
residence with particles from Hardeo's bed sheet still on it.

The next day, police in Miami found Williamson carrying items that belonged to
Hardeo.

"He showed no remorse whatsoever," Miller said. "He was very cool, calm and
collected."

But police could not establish a motive, and Williamson pleaded no contest to
second-degree murder and served three years of his seven-year sentence. Current
law requires inmates to serve 85 percent of their sentences.

Miller said it's a case of the system not working. "I don't think whatever he
served was quite enough."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran Final

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              89 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 2, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. ENFORCING NEW REGULATIONS ON DEPORTATION

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration agents Tuesday began enforcing new regulations designed to expedite
the deportation of foreign travelers trying to enter the United States with
fraudulent or missing documents.

Meanwhile, U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan rejected a request from
immigration rights groups to again delay the regulations' implementation.
Sullivan scheduled another hearing on the case for Friday.

On Monday, Sullivan ordered a four-day delay of the expedited deportation
regulations because they had been published in the Federal Register only 26 days
earlier, rather than the 30 as required. But the U.S. Court of Appeals
overturned his order following an emergency hearing that ended about 1 a.m.
Tuesday.

Tuesday afternoon's hearing was held on a separate suit filed by the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, which seeks to overturn the regulations on the
grounds that they do not give potential asylum seekers adequate opportunity to
prove their claim that they will be persecuted if returned to their country.

"Today people are being confronted and sent back," said Robert Rubin,
representing the lawyers association. "INS is sending them back to countries
where they could face death or persecution, and without informing them" of their
asylum rights.

But Linda Wendtland, a lawyer for the Justice Department, argued that Rubin was
merely speculating on the regulations' impact.

"The plaintiffs cannot show irreparable harm," Wendtland said.

About 500 protesters spilled onto the street outside immigration offices Tuesday
as the new law took effect that has many immigrants worried about their future
in this country.

"It's been peaceful as far as I know," said Lemar Wooley, spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami. "It seems to be pretty
routine."

The city had granted a permit for a rally of about 200, and police barricaded
the street near the building north of downtown Miami to control the crowd.

At one point, emotions escalated as two officers on horseback forced the
chanting crowd, many of them Haitians, back off the street. No arrests were
reported.

The court actions do not apply to other provisions of the immigration law that
require illegal immigrants to become legal residents within 180 days or be
barred from re-entering the United States for three years if they leave the
country. Illegal immigrants who still are not legal residents a year from now
would face a 10-year bar on re-entry.

Most foreign travelers entering the United States will not notice any change in
procedures if they carry proper documentation, said Immigration and
Naturalization spokesman Bill Strassberger. But people attempting to enter on
fraudulent passports, or who may have destroyed their passport before arriving,
will be subject to the new procedures.

Under previous regulations, such travelers were usually held in a detention
facility or released pending a hearing on their status. Often such hearings
could be delayed for months or the people could elude the process entirely once
they were in the country.

"Those people playing the system will not be able to do that in the future,"
Strassberger said.

Staff writer Kethia Clairvoyant contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), E.A. KENNEDY III/Staff Photographer, Hundreds of
immigrants line up at 6:30 a.m. Tuesday at the INS office in North Palm Beach.
Many came early to drop off residency forms.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              90 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 5, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

JUDGE DENIES CALL TO BLOCK PART OF IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: NATALIE HOPKINSON

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A federal judge Friday denied a request to temporarily block implementation of a
key section of the tough new immigration law that makes it easier for the United
States to turn away some asylum seekers.

U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan rejected arguments from a coalition of
immigrant advocacy groups seeking to overturn parts of the new law that took
effect April 1.

But he pledged to speed up the process of reviewing the law itself and set a May
22 hearing for oral arguments.

Sullivan's refusal to block key parts of the law came on a challenge filed by
the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, and the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.

The law, passed by Congress last fall, cracks down on illegal aliens,
strengthens immigration enforcement along the U.S.-Mexican border, and makes it
more difficult for immigrants to win political asylum.

Opponents of the law sought to block it on grounds that it made it too difficult
for asylum seekers to show they had a credible fear of possible death or
persecution.

Attorneys for the immigration advocacy groups said there is a potential for the
government to violate immigrants' constitutional rights to due process.

"We believe there are (asylum seekers) at airports that are not going to get
information about their rights to counsel," Judy Rabinovitz, an attorney for the
American Civil Liberties Union, said at a news conference following the hearing.
Rabinovitz said the INS has a history of abusing its discretion, and should be
closely scrutinized in its implementation of the law.

But in oral arguments, Linda Wendtland, a lawyer for the INS, argued that the
right to due process only applies to citizens.

Robert Rubin, an attorney for the San Francisco-based Lawyers Committee for
Civil Rights, said regardless of an individual's immigration status, they
deserve a court hearing.

On Monday, Sullivan sided with immigrants rights groups, ruling that
implementation of the law should be postponed for four days.

However, his stay was later overruled by a federal appeals court and the law
went into effect as planned on Tuesday.

Sullivan assured the lawyers Friday that while the law is in effect, the court's
review of it will continue.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              91 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 19, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT CRIMINALS STILL GAINING CITIZENSHIP, AUDIT SAYS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government's newest efforts to prevent immigrant criminals from becoming
citizens aren't working, according to a report delivered Friday by auditors
working for the Justice Department.

Beginning in December, the Immigration and Naturalization Service was supposed
to hold all citizenship applications until the FBI had checked each applicant's
fingerprints against federal crime records. INS offices were also supposed to
establish more internal controls to ensure that immigrants' criminal histories
were reviewed.

But during a five-week tour of INS offices in February and March, auditors found
that several offices across the United States had not received the instructions
requiring FBI verification of fingerprints. Few of the internal controls had
been installed, and some INS offices were sending the fingerprints to the wrong
FBI office, according to the auditors from KPMG Peat Marwick.

"Their findings could not be worse," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of
the immigration subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee. Smith said the
subcommittee will hold a hearing this month on the INS' problems with the
citizenship process, and he is considering legislation that would set legal
requirements for the process. The process is now designed by the INS.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said Friday that the auditors' findings were
"extremely troubling" and that she had ordered more stringent review of
citizenship applications when she learned of the report last week.

"These steps include a policy precluding a citizenship oath without a verified
fingerprint check," Meissner said in a statement. She also said she would ask
Congress to approve a plan to "fundamentally restructure" the INS.

The INS' latest corrective efforts were started last year after immigration
officials acknowledged that 250,000 immigrants had become citizens without an
FBI check of their criminal histories.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              92 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 20, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

CONFUSION OVER LAW DENIES CARE TO LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 447 words


As the health-care industry braces for federal cuts that will leave thousands of
immigrants without Medicaid this fall, nursing homes have begun to deny
admission even to elderly legal immigrants who will not lose their benefits.

Bewildered by the new federal welfare law and fearful that these immigrants will
default on their bills, some health-care centers in New York and around the
country are now requiring prospective patients to produce citizenship papers
instead of residency papers upon admission, hospital and nursing home
administrators say.

And while New York state health officials acknowledge that a small group of
immigrants will lose Medicaid as federal restrictions go into effect later this
year, they warn that the new practice unfairly denies care to the vast majority
who will keep their coverage.

But as health-care administrators peer into the wrinkled faces of their elderly
applicants and struggle to interpret the law, some have found it easier to
refuse all legal immigrants - those with green cards but not citizenship - than
to figure out who will keep benefits and who will lose them.

"It's heartbreaking, but we're all too terrified to admit anybody who is not a
citizen," said Sheryl Geminder, the director of admissions at the Sephardic Home
for the Aged in New York, which now rejects all legal immigrants who need
long-term care. "A green card was the ticket in six months ago, but now our
attorneys are warning us not to take any chances."

The confusion is the unintended consequence of the changes in the federal
welfare laws, which allow states to continue Medicaid to some legal immigrants
while denying coverage to others.

New York, along with at least 35 other states, plans to continue benefits to
poor legal immigrants who entered the country before Aug. 22 of last year, when
President Clinton signed the welfare bill. But those who have arrived since then
will generally find themselves ineligible for Medicaid coverage for five years.

No one knows how many eligible immigrants have been turned away from care
centers for the elderly, but health-care officials in New York said that dozens
had been rejected in the past month.

Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Republican from Fort Lauderdale and chief sponsor of
the new welfare law, called the situation "worrisome" and said he had never
intended to deny care to eligible immigrants. He said that care centers needed
better guidance from health officials and that his congressional committee would
provide it if others did not.

"I can understand their confusion," Shaw said of the nursing homes. "But
obviously, some elderly people have fallen through the cracks."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              93 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 24, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

STATE SUES TO SAVE IMMIGRANT BENEFITS

BYLINE: BRIAN E. CROWLEY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


A frustrated Gov. Lawton Chiles denounced Congress and sued the federal
government Wednesday, saying it is unconstitutional to deny welfare benefits to
legal immigrants.

Putting particular emphasis on South Florida's Cuban community, Chiles said up
to 50,000 Dade County residents could lose welfare benefits. Chiles estimated
that another 50,000 immigrants in the rest of the state would lose benefits.

What worries state and local officials is that once federal benefits are cut off
this summer, immigrants will turn to them for help. State officials guess that
the cost of replacing those federal benefits could be as much as $ 300 million a
year.

"We do not have those resources," Chiles said. "The looming crisis that we are
facing is not the result of true welfare reform. Congress must act to correct
the basic unfairness of this."

Chiles said he has talked with President Clinton about the problem. Clinton, who
signed the sweeping Welfare Reform Act, has promised states with large legal
immigrant populations that he would support legislation restoring their
benefits.

Until passage of the 1996 Welfare Reform Act, legal immigrants were eligible to
receive Supplemental Security Income, food stamps, Medicaid and temporary aid to
needy families. Now, the only way an immigrant can continue to get these
benefits is to become a U.S. citizen.

In the lawsuit filed in federal court in Miami, the state argues that Congress
violated the Fifth and 10th Amendments to the Constitution by denying legal
immigrants equal protection and forcing Florida to assume the burden of caring
for them.

Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas, who joined the state's suit, said the Welfare
Reform Act would have a "devastating effect" on Dade County.

"We simply cannot afford this kind of financial burden."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              94 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 25, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

WELFARE 'REFORM' LAW DUMPS ON FLORIDIANS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 535 words


Florida's lawsuit against the federal government targets the welfare "reform"
law passed last year. But the suit is about immigration, the federal budget and,
in Florida's case, foreign policy. Washington messed up all three and now wants
the states to clean up the mess.

The complaint, filed Wednesday in Gov. Chiles' name, attacks the part of the new
law that ends Supplemental Security Income, Medicaid and food stamps for most
legal immigrants who are not citizens by August. State officials estimate that
Florida will have about 100,000 elderly and disabled people with tiny or no
incomes. Perhaps U.S. Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, who led the fight
for welfare "reform," has ideas on how state officials can deal with that little
problem.

The law under which most of them came to this country required them to have
sponsors to assure that they would not become a public burden. Some naturalized
citizens brought in parents and sent them straight to the welfare office to sign
up. Some sponsors were for-profit operators whose connection ended after the
immigrant paid for the service. Stories like that always arouse House
Republicans. But the cut-off also affects longtime residents who paid taxes
during their working years.

Allowing abuse of sponsorship to continue is one of many ways Washington has
failed to enforce federal immigration laws. For those who came during the Mariel
boatlift in 1980, the sponsorship rule was waived. Since the Castro takeover in
1960, U.S. policy has treated Cubans as refugees. After 30 or more years as
refugees and taxpayers, the Cubans still can't go home.

The goulash of failed anti-Castro policy and the unenforced immigration laws was
spilled on the states in the welfare "reform" to save money. The Congressional
Budget Office estimated that $ 24 billion will be saved over six years. That
means 40 percent of the expected savings from welfare "reform" will come from
immigration. That's almost enough to excuse one of the tax cuts Congress is
talking about.

In Florida, Supplemental Security Income averages $ 410 a month. The program is
administered by Social Security but paid for with general tax money. Florida
might try to enforce the sponsorship law, but a state that can't afford
classrooms for all its students isn't likely to do much better at enforcement
than the feds did.

SSI recipients can apply for citizenship. That's what Rep. Shaw advises.
Naturalization offices in Miami, where half of the state's legal immigrants on
welfare live, have been swamped since the law was passed. But the recipients
are, by definition, old or disabled and poor. They are not likely to jump the
naturalization hurdles en masse.

Besides, if they do, the budget savings won't materialize.

President Clinton says the benefits should be restored for legal immigrants. He
should have thought of that before he signed the law. He asked for $ 15 million
over six years. Rep. Shaw says Mr. Clinton will be lucky to get $ 2 million,
which is how much he is backing to help states such as Florida make the
transition to full responsibility for dealing with the problems. That isn't very
generous, when you remember who caused the problems.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              95 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 4, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION RULE STRIKES SOUR NOTE FOR CUBAN VIRTUOSO

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Since defecting from Cuba in 1990, the jazz trumpeter Arturo Sandoval has built
a stellar career in the United States, winning three Grammy Awards, soloing at
events like the Academy Awards and rubbing shoulders with President Clinton.

On Thursday Sandoval performed for Clinton for the fifth time, at a Democratic
Party fund-raiser in Washington, just weeks after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service denied his application for citizenship.

In doing so, the agency applied a provision of the Immigration and Nationality
Act of 1952 that forbids naturalization to anyone who, within the previous 10
years, "has been a member of or affiliated with the Communist Party or any other
totalitarian party."

Sandoval, 47, said he joined Cuba's Communist Party three months before he
defected so that he could take his wife and 20-year-old son with him on tour in
Europe and the whole family could "escape."

The rejection of Sandoval's citizenship application has brought an uproar from
his colleagues in the arts and from the National Academy of Recording Arts and
Sciences. Artists and their organization have sent a flurry of faxes and letters
to the White House vouching for Sandoval's anti-Castro credentials and his moral
character. Some immigration experts called the immigration rule a relic that had
become obsolete in a post-Cold War world.

"Just what are we trying to protect ourselves against by barring this hapless
individual from citizenship?" asked Arthur Helton, a law professor at New York
University who directs migration programs for the Open Society Institute, a
research and advocacy organization in New York.

Even a spokesman for the immigration service sounded a little embarrassed when
asked about Sandoval's case, saying, "We're honored to have Sandoval as a legal
permanent resident of the United States, and we are considering his appeal."

Sandoval is appealing to the immigration service on the grounds that his
Communist Party affiliation was not voluntary and was based on fear of
persecution for his family.

His wife, Marianela, has been granted citizenship and the application of his son
is pending. Sandoval, who lives in Miami Springs with his family and has taught
music for seven years at Florida International University, came to this country
in July 1990 after he defected in Greece while on tour with Dizzy Gillespie, who
called the State Department on his behalf.

"It's absurd," Sandoval said of the agency's decision. "Why let me in then? Why
let me shake hands with presidents? Why let me teach in universities? It's all
so contradictory."

Sandoval, who said he had been labeled "pro-Yankee" in his own country for his
embrace of jazz, theorizes that a "Castrista" within the federal agency, or "a
frustrated person" envious of his success, is bent on causing him harm.

Indeed, Sandoval, a specialist in jazz and Latin music described by music
critics as a "virtuoso" and "prodigious," has found nothing but opportunity in
his adopted country. Since arriving, his agent said, Sandoval has recorded seven
albums, (his first was titled Flight to Freedom), performed at inaugural balls
and Super Bowls and toured in 50 countries.

At the gala on Thursday night, he shook hands and had his picture taken with the
president but did not have a chance to talk to him. If he had done so, Sandoval
said, he would have told Clinton, "I'm loyal to this country and I feel offended
because I'm convinced I don't deserve this treatment."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), Arturo Sandoval (mug)

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              96 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 May 9, 1997, Friday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SCHOOL OFFICIALS SEEKING GUIDANCE ON NEW VISA LAW

BYLINE: JOE VIDUEIRA

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 589 words


School district and immigration officials are confused about a new law that some
say will force foreigners attending any of the Treasure Coast's public schools
out of class.

St. Lucie and Martin counties' school district administrators, and even
immigration officials, are grappling with the practical implications of the new
law, which denies free education to new visa applicants.

"Since it passed, we've been asking 'How do we interpret this? What are we
supposed to do?' " Assistant Superintendent Hank Salzler said Thursday.

He and others at two districts say they are awaiting further instruction from
the state Department of Education and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service before fully implementing the new law.

The problem is, even officials in those departments don't have all the answers.

At least one provision is clear: Foreigners who plan on sending their kids to
Treasure Coast schools for the first time next year will either have to pay for
the service or send their children to private school.

That, say immigration officials, is the intent of the federal law. Congress
passed the rules last November in an immigration reform package.

"The intent is not to force people out of school, but to control the number of
students coming here to take advantage of our public schools," said Bill
Strassburger, a spokesman for the INS in Washington.

"We're not talking about kicking anybody out of school," added immigration
official Brian Jordan.

According to Jordan, the 38 foreign students already enrolled in Treasure Coast
public schools should be able to stay in class - as long as they don't leave the
country or change schools and thus need to apply for a new visa.

But Strassburger and some school officials aren't sure. Students in St. Lucie
schools need to apply for new visas every year and those in Martin County apply
every two years. According to Strassburg, new visas issued under the new law
will not allow the students to return to class.

Under the new policies, only high school students with new visas will be allowed
to enroll in public schools, but only for one year, and only if they pay the
complete cost of their education.

Most Florida districts estimate that expense to be more than $ 5,000 per student
after textbooks, transportation, teacher salaries and other services are
tallied.

The law does not affect exchange students or children of undocumented
immigrants.

Although officials in St. Lucie and Martin counties said they would accept new
enrollments that meet the law's guidelines, such cases so far have not
materialized. Neither of the districts has set up tuition schedules.

Without clear direction from above, administrators such as Salzler are reluctant
to charge tuition and are frustrated by their inability to get answers to their
questions.

"This is a nightmare," said Linda Higgins, who works with the visa applicants in
Martin County. "After these visas expire, I can't do anything for them," she
said. "How can we charge tuition if we don't have any guidelines?"

Carolyn Wirtz, who handles visa applications in the St. Lucie School District,
said the district is taking new enrollments so long as the new requirements are
met and tuition is paid. But Higgins has taken the more common approach among
school districts in Florida: No new enrollments are being accepted in Martin
County schools until more is known about how the law will be applied.

"I'm telling (new applicants) they need to go to private school," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              97 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 17, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION WOULD SPLIT UP COUPLE;
RETURN TO HAITI WOULD BAR WIFE'S REENTRY FOR 5 YEARS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Lee Haber says he anticipated lots of paperwork when he proposed marriage to a
Haitian refugee in 1995, but nothing like the nightmare that threatens to end
their relationship.

Federal immigration authorities ordered Mona Haber, 27, to report to Miami on
Monday for deportation to Haiti. The so-called "bag and baggage" letter advised
her to arrive with under 44 pounds of luggage and be ready to travel.

If Haber's wife takes the government-paid flight, she would be barred from
reentry into the United States for five years. New immigration rules that took
effect in April didn't change the five-year ban but imposed a $ 500-a-day fine
for those who fail or refuse to depart.

Immigration officials said the agency has not decided whether someone in
deportation proceedings before April would be subject to the fine.

Haber says the deportation is unfair because he has applied for his wife to
become a legal resident as the spouse of an American citizen. Haber and his wife
plan to keep the Monday appointment but only to fight the deportation order.

"We love each other,' said Haber, 43, a flea market jewelry vendor who lives
with his wife in a suburban West Palm Beach condo.

"I would think the federal government would have more important things to do
than to mess with this young lady."

"I don't want to return to Haiti," said Mona Haber, who has learned English and
worked in supermarkets and retail stores since arriving in the United States in
1992, on a flight from her native Port-au-Prince.

"I'm getting used to being here, and I found the man I love," said Haber, who
said she left Haiti "because of all the killing" after the military coup that
deposed former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Without legal immigrant status, Mona Haber is not authorized to work in the
United States and could face detention and immediate deportation if caught by
immigration authorities.

But when the Habers went to the INS office Thursday to file her petition for
legal residency, she was issued a new work authorization card, Haber said. He
said he doesn't understand why the same agency that recognizes her as legally in
the country wants to deport her.

"I feel like I'm in a box with no way out," Haber said.

Mona Haber's predicament stems from her method of arrival. She flew to Miami on
a visitor visa that identified her as the minor daughter of her traveling
companion, who was actually her aunt. When the visa expired after three months,
she stayed in the United States illegally.

To qualify for a permit to work in the United States, she told immigration
authorities she came in a boat to seek political asylum. Her asylum request was
denied two years later and her work permit revoked.

The couple contacted U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, earlier this week
for assistance in convincing U.S. Immigration and Naturalization to recognize
the marriage and allow Mona Haber to stay.

INS officers have promised to review the woman's case when she arrives at her
appointment, said Don Kiselewski, a Foley aide. He said a key consideration is
whether Mona Haber made a reasonable effort to become a legal resident after
being notified in 1995 that she was subject to deportation.

Marriage will not save an undocumented immigrant if deportation proceedings
began prior to the marriage, said Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman in Washington.

Haber's wife said she got a notice of a deportation hearing four days after her
Dec. 1, 1995, marriage. Other documents indicate the INS initiated her removal
months earlier. Mona Haber said she wasn't aware of it.

Haber admits he and his wife should have moved quicker to seek legal residency,
but they were concerned about costs of attorneys and application fees.

"Sometimes people procrastinate," Haber said. "Maybe we should have done things
differently, but I can't change the past."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer, Lee Haber (right) married
Mona Haber in December 1995. She faces deportation because she stayed after her
visa expired.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              98 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 20, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 70 words


WEST PALM BEACH

Immigration authorities granted a three-week reprieve to a Haitian refugee who
was to be deported Monday despite her 18-month marriage to an American citizen.
Mona Haber, 27, said she and her husband, Lee, are working with legal aid
lawyers to stop the deportation. Haber said he is seeking legal residency for
his wife, who left Haiti in 1992 but was denied political asylum in the United
States.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              99 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 29, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

FEDS SHORTCHANGING STATE ON WELFARE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 213 words


In the government's attempt to balance the budget by reforming the welfare
program, an estimated 100,000 legal immigrants will lose their food stamps and
other basic benefits. Many of these immigrants have lived here for many years
and paid taxes. Many legal immigrants who will be affected by these cuts are in
their 70s and 80s, and some of them who have disabilities are certainly unable
to work. These cuts are cruel and inhumane.

Although U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, took the time to discuss
immigration at his recent town hall meeting, I did not hear him mention how he
would address this issue. In the past he has said that he supported the welfare
reform bill.

Because of the change in the law, the burden will fall on states and local
governments. Rep. Foley talked about tightening border controls. There was no
discussion of how he would deal with the people that will fall through the
cracks.

Fortunately for us, Florida has Gov. Chiles and Lt. Gov. MacKay, who realize the
plight of the state and have sued the federal government seeking relief from
costs incurred because of the changes in the law. The suit addresses the cuts
and discrimination as unconstitutional and void. Floridians must support this
effort.

Jeff Ruddy

Stuart

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              100 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 3, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

ROBERTS GLAD SHE'S NOT IN MIAMI

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A National Association of Counties Welfare Reform Forum held here Monday was
something of an eye-opener for Palm Beach County Commissioner Carol Roberts. "I
think we're pretty damn lucky compared to Miami," she said, noting she hadn't
known that Miami is the fourth poorest city in the country. "It does make me
count my blessings." The forum, one of four held around the country this year,
focused on the problems faced in the Miami metropolitan area, where one-quarter
of Florida's welfare recipients are concentrated and where about 40,000 people
stand to lose welfare benefits under federal and state welfare reform laws. Palm
Beach County's welfare population is a fraction of that. Roberts, president of
the Florida Association of Counties, said she believed the county is
well-prepared to help move people from welfare to work. She said she plans to
look into bringing an intriguing Dade County program to Palm Beach County: 20
Dade workers have been dispatched to help overwhelmed U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents wade through a backlog of citizenship applications
for legal immigrants who will lose welfare and disability benefits if they don't
become citizens soon. Dade officials are trying to have the workers deputized as
INS agents. In Palm Beach County, more than 3,200 immigrants are affected.

- Barbara Feder

County drafts waiver for artists

Palm Beach County doesn't want to get stuck with a painting or sculpture
forever. So when an artist sells or donates artwork to display in a county
building, the artist will be asked to sign a waiver that releases ownership and
allows the county to remove it - even if the piece is mutilated in the process.
The county attorney's office decided to draft the waiver after hearing about a
New York case in which a property owner remodeling his building had to fight for
the removal of a sculpture, which consisted of a huge mouth, a neon snake, floor
and wall mosaics and items hanging from the ceiling.

- Dina Nelson

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              101 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 26, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

LEPORE BACKS BILL TIGHTENING VOTER RECORDS

BYLINE: KEVIN ECKSTROM

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Palm Beach County Elections Supervisor Theresa LePore told a congressional panel
Wednesday that adding voters' Social Security numbers to their records would
help cut down on voting by non-citizens.

Testifying before the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, LePore said
the additional voter information would allow jurisdictions to check voter status
on an "as-needed" basis.

"As a county that is considered 'South Florida' where the immigrant population
is on the rise, being able to verify citizenship status would be a tremendous
help," LePore said.

The subcommittee is considering the Voter Eligibility Verification Act, which
would allow local officials to check with the Social Security Administration and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service when a potential voter submits a
voter application.

Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, a cosponsor of the legislation, said "one of
our most prized rights (as U.S. citizens) is our constitutionally granted voice
in who represents us in government. We need to ensure that privilege is reserved
for those who are legal residents of the United States."

LePore warned, however, that the system would not be foolproof. Neither the
Social Security Administration nor the INS maintains comprehensive records of
citizenship, she said.

"I would not want either the elections officials or the public to be lured into
a false sense of security in thinking that this will solve the problems of
fraudulent registrations," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Theresa LePore (mug)

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              102 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 28, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN WIFE CAN STAY IN U.S., OFFICER DECIDES

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The scheduled deportation of a Haitian woman married to a U.S. citizen was
canceled Friday by an immigration officer who said he didn't want to break up a
family.

Mona Haber, 27, of West Palm Beach, came to Miami with her bags packed Friday,
ready to be deported for entering the country without a visa five years ago.

Not knowing what to expect, Haber stayed in a hallway at the Miami Immigration
and Naturalization Service on Friday while her husband, Lee, met alone with a
deportation officer for 25 minutes. Haber emerged smiling and embraced his wife.

Mona Haber said she had been worrying for weeks that she would be separated from
her husband. She said her entire family has left Haiti because of economic and
political turmoil.

"I'm scared to go back," she said. "Here, I have a life, a husband and a home."

Lee Haber said the deportation officer considered the marriage a factor in the
decision.

"He said the INS is not here to break up families," Haber said. He also said the
case was not a priority since his wife has no criminal record, Haber said.

Cancelling the deportation was not out of the ordinary, said Miami INS spokesman
Lemar Wooley. He said officers consider marriages and pending applications to
become a legal resident before acting on a deportation order.

Haber said the deportation officer advised that his wife needs to go to a third
country, such as Canada or the Bahamas, to apply for a visa to enter the United
States.

If Mona Haber had been returned to Haiti, she could not have returned to the
United States for five years. The five-year ban applies because she had been
given an order to depart voluntarily in 1995 and didn't comply. The Habers said
they were not aware she could have challenged the order and filed for legal
residency immediately after their 1995 marriage.

Lee Haber, 43, who sells jewelry at flea markets, appealed to Rep. Mark Foley,
R-Fla., and the White House to stop the deportation.

Fearful that his wife would be placed in handcuffs and taken away, Haber said he
considered skipping Friday's appointment with deportation. Showing up probably
helped, he said.

"He saw that we were cooperating and trying to do the right thing," Haber said.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              103 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 13, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

THIRD CHANGE IN INS PROCEDURES DOUBLES TIME TO BECOME CITIZEN

BYLINE: ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Eight months after vowing to overhaul its troubled citizenship program, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is still struggling to put new procedures
in place to prevent immigrants with criminal records from becoming citizens.

Two highly publicized efforts by the agency failed to fix a system that
naturalized 180,000 immigrants last year without proper criminal-background
checks. At one point, auditors found that only one of 23 field offices under
review was following the new orders.

Exasperated by the debacle, Attorney General Janet Reno two months ago
dispatched one of her top trouble-shooters, Robert Bratt, to straighten out the
mess.

But the widely praised changes Bratt instituted early this month are taking a
toll: They are doubling the wait for immigrants to become citizens to more than
a year as the agency strains to cope with an expected record 1.8 million
applicants this year.

Anxiety over new laws that would deny food stamps and other benefits to most
legal immigrants who are not yet citizens has helped ignite this rush to
citizenship.

Immigration officials say the delays are temporary, and the agency will reduce
the waiting time to six months once employees learn the new procedures. But even
the normally upbeat Bratt concedes that after two embarrassing setbacks the
immigration service's credibility is down to its third strike.

"This is at a crisis stage, and there is no room for slippage," said Bratt, who
has helped train a new police force in Haiti and develop training programs for
new judges in Russia. He has been in the Justice Department for 19 years and is
chief administrator for the department's criminal division.

Under Bratt the agency has established safeguards to ensure no immigrant is
naturalized until the FBI conducts criminal-background checks using the
applicant's fingerprints.

Clerks must follow a 14-point checklist when processing an applicant's form. For
the first time, all offices of the immigration service will be reading from the
same training manual.

Nowhere is the urgency more evident than in the San Francisco Bay area, one of
the United States' busiest immigration portals. The number of immigrants seeking
citizenship has jumped to 16,000 people a month from 5,000 a month three years
ago. Applicants are waiting 12 to 15 months to be sworn in.

Auditors this spring singled out the San Francisco district for some of their
most stinging criticism, citing such failures as the lack of a documented
training program and the mailing of applicants' fingerprints to the wrong FBI
address.

"It was a wake-up call for us," Thomas Schiltgen, director of the San Francisco
district.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              104 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 17, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 265 words


Immigration agents in Orlando on Tuesday arrested Clinton Hanson, the
25-year-old Riviera Beach man who led police on a five-county, 100-mile chase
down Florida's Turnpike on May 16. The agents said Hanson, a Bahamian national,
is an aggravated felon and arrested him as he left Orange County Court Tuesday
after his arraignment, immigration officials said. As a result of the dramatic
chase, Hanson was charged with aggravated assault on a law enforcement officer.
He also has an extensive criminal record, including charges involving the sale
and possession of cocaine. Hanson will remain in the custody of immigration
officials pending removal proceedings and his criminal court trial.

LANTANA

A man fled with $ 5,000 from the drive-through tellers at First United Bank, 200
Hypoluxo Road, around 5 p.m. Wednesday after he handed a note to the teller that
he had just placed a bomb inside the bank, police said. Police did not find a
bomb, but 24 people were evacuated from the bank and adjacent businesses. The
man, who wore no shirt at the time, was driving a white, older model truck,
police said.

NORTH PALM BEACH

Aaron Bradley, 25, 3303 S. Wallen Drive, suburban Palm Beach Gardens, has been
identified as the man who was hit by a southbound Florida East Coast Railway
train at 10:26 p.m. Tuesday just north of Northlake Boulevard. He was seen on
the tracks just before he was struck, Palm Beach County sheriff's investigators
said Wednesday. His mother said he had been depressed lately and had talked of
suicide, investigators said. No foul play is suspected.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              105 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 17, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

FAIRNESS THROWN OUT, FOLLOWED BY REFUGEES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 405 words


'Here's another fine mess you've gotten me into," Attorney General Janet Reno
would say if she were Oliver Hardy and Congress were Stan Laurel. And if the
1996 immigration law were a movie, it would be a comedy. But this is real, and
it a tragedy.

Ms. Reno pulled the emergency cord, but only after U.S. District Judge James
Lawrence King stopped the enforcement of part of the law in Florida, Georgia and
Alabama. Under the law, the government tried to deport 300,000 people to El
Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua by changing the rules and applying the new
rules retroactively.

When they voted, members of Congress thought and said they were only trying to
clean up immigration procedures. That's a good idea. They should try it
sometime. But the 1996 law went at it backward and was bound to fail.

Central Americans came to get away from civil wars of the 1980s in which our
country actively participated. They were encouraged to come under "temporary"
programs but not given residency status. Now the civil wars are over, and it's
somewhat safe to go back. But in the intervening decade, Judge King wrote, "they
found employment, established homes, married, had children and grandchildren,
started businesses, paid taxes, obeyed our laws and contributed to their
community and new country."

Now that they can no longer be shown off as victims of Marxist-Leninism,
Congress wants them out. It allowed 4,000 a year to stay but didn't provide
enough hearing officers. And Congress made it hard for the others to qualify to
stay. To keep them from meeting a residency requirement, the law says that some
of the time they have been here doesn't count as being here, and while they
remain they legally are not here.

Laurel and Hardy might understand that. No one else can. But that's how the
Immigration and Naturalization Service reads the law. Even House Speaker Newt
Gingrich, R-Ga., complains that the law is unfair, if that's what it means.
Other members of Congress say they didn't mean for the law to work that way. Ms.
Reno said she will offer revisions to make the law say what members say they
meant. But don't bet on action. Immigration is always a struggle, and last
year's tussle left lawmakers feeling exhausted.

Washington wants to control the borders. Washington wants to avoid spending
money. It can't do both. When it writes a law to do both, the law does neither.
It gets us into a fine mess.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              106 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 23, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

INS: NO PLAN FOR MASS DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Seeking to allay growing alarm in immigrant communities, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service Monday pledged not to carry out any "mass deportations"
of undocumented foreigners who have been allowed to remain in the United States
while they seek permanent legal status.

In a news conference, INS officials made it clear that thousands of people who
may be affected by the expiration of a controversial provision in the law will
not be forced to leave the country. They also said lists of foreigners in the
legalization pipeline will not be used to target anyone and that, given the
uncertainty surrounding the provision's fate, the INS is not even advising those
who may be affected to leave the country.

"We are not targeting any group, and we don't intend any mass deportations,"
said Paul Virtue, the INS acting executive associate commissioner for programs.
He cautioned, however, that people residing in the United States illegally
"always" risk being deported if they get caught in an INS work site enforcement
raid or come to the agency's attention by committing a crime.

Effectively hostage to the provision are hundreds of thousands of foreigners who
are trying to become legal immigrants, many of them after having lived and
worked in the United States illegally for years, putting down deep roots in
their communities. Currently, these undocumented immigrants are allowed to
remain in the United States while completing their paperwork - provided they pay
a $ 1,000 fine. But unless the provision is extended by Congress, they will face
a difficult choice: either leave the country to wait indefinitely for a U.S.
visa abroad, thus abandoning jobs and families in the United States in many
cases, or stay and risk becoming a perpetual illegal alien.

In fact, immigration lawyers say, their clients mostly are opting to remain in
the United States in hopes of an eventual solution in their favor.

The provision, known as section 245(i), was inserted into immigration law in
1994 and is set to expire Sept. 30. The Senate has passed an
administration-supported amendment to extend it as part of an appropriations
bill, but there is no such provision in the House version. If none is included
when the House takes up the bill this week, it will be up to a House-Senate
conference committee to decide whether to extend the provision or let it lapse.

Meanwhile, the INS is urging eligible foreigners to apply for legal permanent
resident documents, known as "green cards," under the existing regulation before
Sept. 30 and is setting up facilities to handle an expected last-minute rush of
applications. A number of INS district offices will either remain open late next
Tuesday or have "drop-off" boxes available to receive submissions before the
deadline, officials said.

The aim of the law was to avoid imposing a hardship on foreigners who had jobs
and families in the United States and were in line to become legal permanent
residents. It also has served as a needed source of revenue for the INS. In the
1995 and 1996 budget years, about 345,000 people applied for green cards under
section 245(i). Last year, fees from such applications totaled $ 147.5 million
and this year are expected to reached $ 214.5 million.

The scheduled expiration of the provision has especially alarmed immigrant
communities because of a new law intended to stiffen penalties on foreigners who
overstay their visas. The law bars foreigners from receiving a visa from a U.S.
consulate abroad for three years if they remained in the United States illegally
for more than 180 days. For those who stay illegally for more than a year, the
ban rises to 10 years. Since the law took effect April 1, the grace period ends
Sept. 27.

Thus, thousands of people who are trying to legalize their status fear getting
caught in a "double whammy" between the imposition of the new law and the
expiration of the old one. If Section 245(i) lapsed and they did not leave the
country before the new penalties took effect, they might never be able to become
legal immigrants.

In seeking to clarify matters Monday, the INS stressed that everyone who has
applied for a green card under 245(i) before Sept. 30 is considered to be in
lawful status while the application is pending, and thus not subject to the
three-year and 10-year bars. To be eligible to apply for a green card under the
existing provision, officials said, illegal immigrants must pay the $ 1,000
penalty, must have an approved visa petition pending with the INS and must have
an immigrant visa "immediately available in (their) preference category,"
meaning essentially that their number must have come up on their visa waiting
list.

On the other hand, if an illegal alien is the spouse or minor child or a U.S.
citizen, or the parent of a citizen who is at least 21 years old, the person
automatically has an immigrant visa immediately available and can submit the
visa petition and the application for a green card at the same time.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              107 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 30, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

HOUSE OKS EXTENDED INS FILING DEADLINE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


Panicked and confused, immigrants had rushed to immigration offices or slipped
deeper into the shadows to deal with deadlines this month to leave the United
States.

The immigration office for Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast had prepared
for an onslaught of immigrants filing for green cards.

Today's deadline, extended by Congress for three weeks on a 355-57 vote Monday
night, had doubled visitors to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
office at 4360 Northlake Blvd.

Office supervisor Sharon Mallory said about 400 people a day had been rushing to
the office because of the original Sept. 30 deadline for immigrants who have
visas approved but had to apply for legal residency. If they had missed the
deadline, the law required they leave the country and file from abroad.

The House, in a budget matter, voted to extend the deadline to Oct. 23. The
Senate is due to take up similar legislation today.

"It's crazy here," said Catherine Cassidy, an attorney for the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy center in Fort Pierce.

The Sept. 30 deadline was for immigrants who entered the country illegally, but
who through family or occupational ties have been approved for an immigrant
visa. To complete their legal status, they must pay a $ 1,000 fine and apply for
a green card. About 345,000 immigrants have paid the fine in the past two years,
INS officials said.

The deadline does not apply to a large bloc of the area's undocumented
immigrants - Guatemalans and Haitians who are awaiting decisions on their
political asylum claims.

The second law requires anyone who has been in the country illegally for 180
days to leave by Sept. 27. If caught and deported, those immigrants would be
barred from re-entering the country for three years. If in the country for more
than a year, the ban is raised to 10 years.

Many immigrants are responding by doing nothing at all.

"I don't know what's going to happen," said Linda Cahill, an attorney for the
Guatemalan Maya Center in Lake Worth. "If I were you, I wouldn't rush out of the
country. I'd wait and see what happens."

A Boca Raton bookkeeper whose Haitian-born wife entered the United States on a
tourist visa seven years ago said he advised his wife to stay put. Since she's
been in the country illegally for more than a year, she faces a 10-year wait in
Haiti.

"She's just going to stay until they catch up with her," said the bookkeeper,
who asked his name not be published. "Then, we'll take it to the courts."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              108 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              October 1, 1997, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FEDERAL PANEL SEEKS EFFORT TO AID 'AMERICANIZATION' OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Robert Pear

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


 A federal advisory panel called on Tuesday for a major campaign to integrate
new immigrants into American society, and it won support from an influential
Republican congressman for its proposal to dismantle the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.
   In its final report to Congress after five years of work, the panel, the U.S.
Commission on Immigration Reform, also said that some decisions on applications
for visas should be subject to review by a new government agency.
   That would represent a radical change. Under current law, would-be immigrants
and their American sponsors generally cannot appeal decisions of consular
officers who deny applications for visas. The panel would allow such appeals in
some cases.
   Bruce Morrison, a member of the commission, explained the reason for appeal
rights by saying, "Lack of accountability in any decision-making structure is
not tolerable."
   The nine-member commission concluded its work with a ringing endorsement of
the value of legal immigration, saying that migrants contributed to the nation's
economic growth and productivity.
   But it said that federal and state officials must step up their efforts to
incorporate immigrants into the nation's civic and political culture. For
example, it said, newcomers need help in acquiring English-language skills and
should be trained for high-technology jobs, so that they and their children will
move up the economic ladder.
   Susan Martin, executive director of the commission, said that many children
of Hispanic immigrants dropped out of school and that many immigrant teenagers
never enrolled in schools in this country.
   Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights organization, said she saw great merit in the proposal for
a new emphasis on the "Americanization" of immigrants.
   "The United States has relied on immigrant families and on employers to help
immigrants adjust to life in this country - to find jobs and housing, to enroll
in school, to open bank accounts," Ms. Munoz said. "If the government and the
larger society would invest in such services, we could get a huge return, and
immigrants would make a quicker adjustment to American life. Immigrants are
accused of not wanting to learn English, but they are eager to do so. Many
English-language programs have enormous waiting lists."
   The chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee responsible for the
immigration service, Harold Rogers, R-Ky., welcomed many of the panel's
recommendations. He endorsed the proposal, reported in August, to dismantle the
immigration service and distribute its functions among the Departments of
Justice, State and Labor.
   He agreed with the commission's conclusion that the immigration service was
suffering from "mission overload," but not from a lack of money. Indeed, he
said, the budget of the agency, $ 3.1 billion this year, has increased 50
percent in the last two years and has more than tripled in the last decade.
   "At last," Rogers said, "someone is telling it like it is. The INS is
overloaded, and money is no longer an excuse. The agency has too much on its
plate. It cannot control our borders, process immigrants and safeguard U.S.
citizenship. We've seen tens of thousands of criminals granted the most precious
benefit our country has to offer - U.S. citizenship. We have over five million
illegal aliens residing in the United States, the same all-time high of 10 years
ago."
   The House Appropriations Committee recently instructed Attorney General Janet
Reno to devise a plan to "transfer some of the responsibilities of the INS to
other departments and agencies."
   Advocates for immigrants and immigration lawyers were cool to the proposal to
break up the INS.
   Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said she doubted that immigrants would receive better service from
the State Department than from the immigration service, which is now part of the
Justice Department.
   From years of experience dealing with State Department officials, she said,
"we know that they are opposed to review of their decisions, have no mechanisms
in place to assure due process of law and are ill-equipped to deal with the
volume and complexity of cases that INS must adjudicate on a daily basis."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              109 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 2, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

LAW PROPOSED TO LET CENTRAL AMERICAN REFUGEES STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: Christi Harlan

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Central American refugees who are battling deportation got a boost for their
cause Wednesday from two of their former allies in the administration of
President Ronald Reagan.

Former U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese and former Assistant Secretary of State
Elliott Abrams were on Capitol Hill Wednesday to promote legislation that would
allow the Central Americans to delay and possibly avoid deportation under new
immigration laws.

"This is a matter of simple fairness and keeping faith," said Meese, whose
service in the Reagan White House coincided with the administration's activism
against communism in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala.

People who fled civil wars in those countries in the 1980s were admitted legally
to the United States but were never granted permanent status as residents,
refugees or persons in need of asylum. Now, they are in danger of deportation
because of stringent new requirements of U.S. immigration law.

"The problem is that under the legislation as it stands today a Central American
who came here fleeing war, fleeing oppression nearly 10 years ago ... can be
deported without reference to the incredible hardship that that would cause,"
Abrams said. "It is cruel, and it is unnecessary."

Meese and Abrams are advocating a change in the law that would allow about
300,000 Central Americans who arrived here before 1991 to apply for asylum under
immigration rules that were in place when they arrived. The change is sponsored
by Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., and is backed by several others, including Sen.
Mike DeWine, R-Ohio.

Mack's proposal was criticized Wednesday on the Senate floor by Sen. Phil Gramm,
R-Texas, who objected to including the proposal on the legislation setting the
1998 spending levels for the District of Columbia. Gramm said the immigration
issue is too complex to add to unrelated legislation without a hearing by
immigration subcommittees in the House and Senate.

"I think we need to look at each one of these cases, but the war that in each
and every one of these cases that people were fleeing ... is over," Gramm said.
"Now that the conflict is over, they are saying, 'We don't want to go back.' "

The Senate debate on Mack's proposal is scheduled to resume Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              110 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 17, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

UNFAIR TO KEEP THEM

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 56 words


 They should be deported. It is unfair that legal immigrants have to spend a lot
of time to get their citizenship when the illegal ones just come and don't do
anything.
   There are laws about coming to the U.S. and if they are not followed,
immigrants should be dealt with just as with any other law breaker.
 Geoff Banfi, 13

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Students Speak Out

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              111 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 20, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN GROUP PUSHES IMMIGRATION AMNESTY

BYLINE: Bill Douthat; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


A refugee group Wednesday appealed for Haitian President Rene Preval to lobby
the U.S. Congress to grant immigration amnesty to Haitians in the United States.

''I am asking Preval to come here and intervene directly,'' Dominique Saint
Fleur, a Haitian community activist, said at a news conference.

Congress last week passed legislation that grants amnesty to 150,000 Nicaraguans
and makes it easier for 250,000 Salvadorans and Guatemalans to avoid
deportation. No relief was granted to 100,000 Haitian refugees facing
deportation.

The Clinton administration has pledged to suspend deportations of Haitians until
Congress reconvenes next year and reconsiders its omission of Haitian refugees.

Amnesty for Nicaraguans was pushed by members of Congress from Miami, a city
with a large and influential Nicaraguan community. The largest refugee groups in
Palm Beach and Martin counties are Haitian and Guatemalan.

Saint Fleur said he was considering protests, including boycotting commerical
flights to Haiti and keeping Haitian children out of schools for a week, to get
public attention.

''When you have no voice, sometimes it's necessary to create a voice,'' Saint
Fleur said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              112 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 28, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

NEWT RESCUES HIMSELF

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 435 words


Newt Gingrich is acting like the arsonist who became a hero by rescuing a family
from a fire he had set.

The speaker of the U.S. House took a victory lap through Miami's Little Havana
last week to accept praise for his unstinting efforts to stop abrupt
deportations of Cubans and Nicaraguans and to restore Supplemental Security
Income - which is part of the Social Security program - and some health benefits
to legal immigrants.

Mr. Gingrich would not have been able to restore those benefits, nor would he
have had to, if he and other Republicans hadn't set fire to them in the first
place. What he undid this year were parts of the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act and the Personal Responsibility and Work
Opportunity Reconstruction Act, better known as welfare reform.

Congress passed both bills in 1996, and, as their names imply, they were results
of Mr. Gingrich's revolutionary principles applied to anecdotal evidence. Only
two House Republicans voted against the first and nine against the second of the
laws Mr. Gingrich takes credit for reversing.

The immigration law turned refugees from the United States-subsidized civil wars
of Central America in the 1980s into deportable immigrants. Hundreds of
thousands, most of whom had been in this country for more than a decade and had
no home to "go home" to, faced instant eviction. When the law began working, its
unfairness became evident. So, led by Mr. Gingrich, Congress reversed itself and
gave those refugees permanent residency. We also subsidized the dictators who
pillaged Haiti, but Haitians were left out; the only lobby they have is the
conscience of lawmakers.

The welfare reform's whack at people who obeyed the immigration laws drew, for
the first time, "the kind of bright line between legal immigrants and citizens
that was formerly drawn between legal and illegal immigrants," according to
Michael Fix and Karen Tumlin of the foundation-supported Urban Institute. The
blade fell, naturally, on the deserving and the undeserving disabled alike and
generated bad publicity. It was removed as part of this year's budget agreement.

Its removal restored $ 23 billion to the budget. That is almost half of what the
welfare law promised to save taxpayers over six years. Saving money doesn't seem
so vital now that the Bush and Clinton tax increases have kicked in with a
booming economy. Nowadays, Mr. Gingrich is thinking up ways to spend more money
for defense and cut taxes. In that, he's like the arsonist who throws a match
into a burning building and gives himself credit for the fire.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              113 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 3, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

RUSSIAN MILLIONAIRE HELD ON IMMIGRATION CHARGE

BYLINE: Val Ellicott; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Russian citizen who runs a Moscow-based business empire was arrested in Palm
Beach last week on charges of concealing his criminal record from U.S.
immigration authorities.

Alexander Tarantsev, 40, obtained two 3-year U.S. visas - one in May and another
in October, according to court papers. In completing the application forms for
each visa, he said he never had been arrested or convicted of a crime.

In fact, Tarantsev was convicted of crimes in September 1979 and June 1982 in
Russia, Brian Cook, a special agent with the U.S. State Department, said in a
Nov. 4 affidavit.

In the first case, Tarantsev was convicted of criminal conspiracy and fraud and
was sentenced to four years in a detention center. In the 1982 case, he received
a 6-year sentence at a maximum security detention center for ''misappropriation
of another's property by way of deception or breach of trust,'' Cook reported.

State Department agents arrested Tarantsev on Nov. 24. Two days later, U.S.
Magistrate Ann Vitunac agreed to release him on a $ 250,000 cash bond on
condition that he not travel outside the South Florida area, but Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials detained him for being in the United States
illegally.

Tarantsev, who wears an 11-carat diamond pinky ring, is known as one of Russia's
most flamboyant new millionaires. He has been traveling in and out of the United
States and the Caribbean since Oct. 21, Wilfredo Fernandez, spokesman for the
U.S. Attorney's Office, said.

His travels have taken him to New York City; Las Vegas; San Francisco; Mexico
City; Cancun, Mexico; Miami; Montego Bay, Jamaica; the Bahamas; and finally back
to Miami and West Palm Beach.

Tarantsev's attorney, Richard Lubin, said Tarantsev was arrested at The Breakers
hotel, where he was staying while enjoying a working vacation.

''Palm Beach is nice place to be when you're from Moscow and it's 5 degrees,''
he said.

Lubin declined to specify the nature of the business Tarantsev was conducting in
the U.S.

He did say Tarantsev did not sign the visa paperwork that U.S. officials contend
contains the false statements. It is common for business people in Russia to
have other people obtain their visas to avoid standing in long lines at
embassies, Lubin said.

''He vehemently denies that he has committed a crime,'' Lubin said. ''His
intent, once he gets out of custody, is to stay here until the case is over and
to do business from here and then go back to Russia.''

One of the convictions Tarantsev served time for during the Communist regime was
for stealing a coat, Lubin said.

Tarantsev is the founder and owner of Russkoye Zoloto (Russian Gold), a
Moscow-based company with holdings that include a gold-mining concern, retail
space, a travel agency and a fashion firm. Lubin said the company also owns a TV
network in Russia.

He described Tarantsev as a philanthropist who donates millions of dollars to
charities.

Russkoye Zoloto has attracted close attention from organized crime investigators
in Russia over the past year, and prosecutors have filed court papers charging
the company with smuggling, according to the ITAR-Tass news agency.

U.S. officials had sought to have Taratsev held without bond because of his
frequent travels and because he had escaped a construction work site in Russia
where he was serving one of his detentions, Fernandez said.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              114 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 29, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

GREENBACKS: FOREIGNERS' GREEN CARD LINK

BYLINE: William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


For those with a desire to emigrate and cash to spare, the recent ad in the
Times of Oman offered an enticing proposition: "U.S. Green Card for anyone who
can show U.S. $ 500,000."

Green cards for sale? Those coveted credit card-sized documents - which confer
legal U.S. resident status and constitute the first step toward citizenship - on
the block for cold cash in a Persian Gulf sultanate?

What appeared on the face of it to be a dubious offer in fact was based on a
little-known - but quite legal - U.S. government program to encourage
immigration by wealthy foreign investors. The investor visa program, passed by
Congress in 1990 as a way to compete for foreign capital and create U.S. jobs,
reserves up to 10,000 green cards a year for investors and their families.

To qualify, the principals must each create at least 10 full-time U.S. jobs by
investing $ 1 million - or $ 500,000 if the jobs are in certain
high-unemployment areas - in the establishment of a new business, or the rescue
or expansion of an existing one.

So far, the program has not really taken off. In recent years, issuances of
investor visas have numbered only in the hundreds. In 1996, the latest fiscal
year for which figures are available, 936 people received them, including
spouses and children. More than 80 percent of the visas went to Asians - mostly
from Taiwan, South Korea, China and Hong Kong.

The program has spurred an industry of consultants and facilitators who link
investors with business opportunities in the United States, handle the visa
applications and even arrange financing for the required investment money. The
industry leader is a Greenbelt, Md.,-based firm called AIS Inc. (originally
American Immigration Services) that specializes in pooling investors together to
bankroll larger projects. It says it has obtained visa approvals for more than
1,000 investors who have committed more than $ 500 million to U.S. businesses
since 1991.

The firm boasts a high-profile management team led by Diego Asencio, a retired
senior U.S. diplomat, as president. Gene McNary, a former commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, is one of the company's top lawyers. Its
board of directors includes former ambassadors Stephen Bosworth and Jack Matlock
Jr., former assistant secretaries of state William Clark and Richard Murphy,
retired Democratic congressman John Bryant of Texas and Prescott Bush, the
brother of former president George Bush and chairman of the private USA-China
Chamber of Commerce.

An AIS brochure touts the program as less restrictive and expensive than similar
plans in other countries such as Canada, which requires investor immigrants to
stay there at least 183 days of the year. The U.S. program also sets no
requirements on age, prior business training or experience, education or
language skill.

"The only requirement for the investor," it says, "is that he have the required
net worth and initial capital," which must come from a "lawful source" but may
include gifts, inheritances and bank loans.

The AIS program is geared to those who want U.S. resident status without
actually having to run the businesses they invest in or live where they are
located. To that end, it uses a provision in the law allowing the investor to be
a "limited partner" in the business to meet a requirement for an "active"
management role. It also guarantees applicants a return on their investment
after they receive their green cards.

Investors normally must come up with $ 35,000 to cover various fees, plus at
least $ 100,000 of the minimum capital investment. AIS then can arrange a bank
loan for the remaining $ 400,000 investment amount, its literature says.

Many applicants seek green cards not so much for themselves, but for their
families, AIS said.

"They do it so their kids can go to college here and work here," said Andrew
Palmer, one of the firm's vice presidents.

A drawback of permanent resident status is that it subjects the immigrant to
U.S. taxes on worldwide income, even if the person does not live full time in
the United States. However, the law contains a loophole allowing spouses and
children to be the applicants, rather than the family's breadwinner. Many
wealthy heads of families choose to remain in their homelands and run their
businesses without taking the U.S. tax hit.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              115 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 11, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION POLICY IS OUT IN LEFT FIELD

BYLINE: Howard Kleinberg

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 648 words


Probably, you've never heard of ''El Duque,'' or Carla Sanabria, and why should
you have? But they represent the embodiment of everything that is wrong with
U.S. immigration policy.

Within immigration and refugee circles, ''El Duque'' - Orlando Hernandez is his
real name - and Ms. Sanabria are quite well known.

Mr. Hernandez is the half-brother of the last World Series' most valuable
player, Livan Hernandez of the Florida Marlins. As Livan did three years ago,
Orlando fled Cuba just last week.

He and seven others reached a remote Bahamas island by boat and were taken to
Nassau, whereupon the United States government ran - did not walk - to offer
Orlando, his girlfriend and one other man immediate humanitarian parole into the
United States. Five other refugees on the boat received no such invitation.

And why would Mr. Hernandez and the other two be special cases? Well, it's
because ''El Duque'' - like his half-brother - is a baseball pitcher of some
promise; the other man is a catcher, and the woman is . . .  well, she's
Orlando's girlfriend.

INS people will counter that Mr. Hernandez was being persecuted in Cuba and,
indeed, he was. Because of his brother's defection, Orlando was banned from
playing baseball there.

But there are many thousands of others on the island who cannot pursue their
goals as well; ''El Duque'' ain't unique.

As to Carla Sanabria, she resides, against her wishes, in Masaya, Nicaragua,
having been deported by the U.S. to Nicaragua last April because she was an
illegal alien who had not properly filled out the right INS forms, or ignored
some of them.

Ms. Sanabria, at the time of her deportation, lived in the U.S. for a dozen
years, married an American citizen and gave birth to a child, now 7 years old.

No manner of argument by immigration lawyers that Ms. Sanabria was leading a
productive family life mattered to the immigration service. She was ripped away
from her family and put on a plane for Nicaragua.

As recently as Dec. 18, the INS refused to grant her a visa to reenter the U.S.,
based on the grounds that neither she nor her husband have submitted
satisfactory evidence of their marriage. Maybe there's nothing on paper, but how
do you explain 7-year-old Luis Miguel?

Ironically, Mr. Hernandez and his catcher buddy have spurned the U.S. offer and
flown off to Costa Rica - for financial reasons. The girlfriend took Uncle Sam
up on the offer and today is sipping cafe con leche somewhere in Miami.

As followers of baseball are fully aware, there is a shortage of good pitchers
in the major leagues, and perhaps that is what drives U.S. immigration policy
today. ''El Duque'' has the reputation of being better than his MVP
half-brother.

But his decision to go to Costa Rica rather than the U.S. not only makes INS
look callow and stupid, but tells us that Mr. Hernandez, while educated under
the doctrine of Cuban Marxist teaching, somehow learned something about the
capitalist system.

If he had come to the U.S., Mr. Hernandez would have been caught in the annual
baseball draft. He would have been selected by one of the major-league teams and
would have to deal solely with them.

By staying out of the U.S., he avoids that and operates as a free agent, free to
negotiate with any team - an opportunity that adds multiple zeros to the bottom
line of any contract he signs.

I don't blame Mr. Hernandez; get it while you can. But for the U.S. to give him
instant special treatment, while denying it to five others from the boat, or to
the 57 refugees still in detention at the Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba after
more than a year, just shows the enormous flaws in U.S. immigration policy.

If Ms. Sanabria only could have perfected a curve ball, Luis Miguel would still
have his mother today.

Howard Kleinberg, a former editor of the Miami News, is a columnist for Cox
Newspapers.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Cuban baseball players Hernandez
(left) and Alberto Hernandez, in San Jose, Costa Rica, Thursday, hold receipts
allowing them to retire their temporary refugee status cards.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              116 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 1, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

FALSE IDENTITY (CARDS);
EX-BOYNTON PASTOR, LAKE WORTH MAN CHARGED WITH MAKING, SELLING FAKE 'GREENCARDS'

BYLINE: Monika Gonzalez, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 457 words


A former Boynton Beach pastor and a Lake Worth man have been arrested on federal
charges of making and selling as many as 2,000 counterfeit ''green cards,''
Social Security cards and Guatemalan birth certificates.

Antonio Nuez, 62, who had recently moved to suburban Lantana from Boynton Beach,
charged Mexican citizens up to $ 350 for a set of new ID cards, immigration
officials said Thursday. Ramon Migueles, 32, of Lake Worth, provided Nuez with
blank Social Security cards, resident alien cards and other documents, as well
as laminates, officials said.

The arrests last week on charges of mail fraud, wire fraud and conspiracy to
sell fraudulent immigration documents capped two years of investigations by
immigration officials and postal inspectors.

Immigration officials approached Nuez in February 1996, after receiving a tip
about the fake documents from a confidential informant in Texas. An undercover
immigration agent approached Nuez in Miami, seeking two fake sets of IDs,
records said. Nuez referred the agent to Inez Heredia-Salinas in El Paso, Texas,
who would start the paperwork and forward it to Nuez to be completed, Nuez told
the agent.

Heredia-Salinas also was charged with eight counts of conspiracy, mail fraud and
wire fraud.

''She ordered them to give to people she smuggled (into the country) as soon as
they got here,'' Boynton Beach Police Investigator Danny Vargas said.

Nuez was arrested April 20 at 2671 Hypoluxo Road. He then led investigators to
Migueles, who for $ 100 sold 10 sets of blank INS cards, Social Security cards
and laminates to U.S. Postal Inspector Antonio Sifuentes, records show. The sale
took place April 20 at Vidas Grocery Store in Lake Worth, officials said.

The next day, Sifuentes returned and bought five blank Guatemalan Cedulas, which
are identity documents used to get U.S. entry visas, officials said.

Nuez and Heredia-Salinas sold Guatemalan ID records to Mexican citizens, who
hoped the records would help them gain political asylum more easily, immigration
officials said.

It is unknown how many people bought the fake ID sets and whether they were
effective in gaining employment or permanent legal residency, said Robert Gross,
a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''We're investigating the extent of the damage now,'' Gross said.

Migueles, of 208 B St. in Lake Worth, was being held without bail Thursday at
the Palm Beach County Jail. He faces 10 years in federal prison on charges of
selling fraudulent immigration documents, Assistant U.S. Attorney Brandy Gardes
said from El Paso.

Nuez, who has been transferred to a Texas jail, and Heredia-Salinas each face 40
years in prison on the eight counts they face.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), PARTICIPANT: Ramon Migueles (above), 32, of Lake Worth,
provided blank Social Security cards, resident alien cards and other documents,
as well as laminates, officials said.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              117 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SUE TO SPEED CITIZENSHIP APPLICATIONS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 485 words


An advocacy group sued the federal government Thursday, claiming that
citizenship is being denied to thousands of Florida residents because of a
massive backlog of applications.

''Their lives are literally on hold,'' said Cheryl Little, one of the attorneys
suing the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Little said thousands of Floridians have taken the citizenship exam, but have
been waiting a year or more for naturalization ceremonies. She seeks to include
those applicants as plaintiffs in the class-action suit, described by
immigration attorneys as the first major legal challenge to the citizenship
delays.

By withholding citizenship, the government denies residents the right to hold a
U.S. passport and vote in elections, and subjects them to ''fear, despair and
uncertainty,'' said the lawsuit filed in federal court in Miami.

Hundreds stuck in the logjam are Palm Beach County residents. Elsa Gibbons, who
teaches citizenship classes in Riviera Beach, said she has about 200 former
students awaiting naturalization.

''They are anxious and afraid of going out of the country until they get that
telegram,'' said Gibbons, executive director of the Center for Minority Human
Services Providers.

One of her former students, Maria Claudia Marks of Jupiter Farms, said she
passed the exam 15 months ago but had not heard anything - until she opened her
mail Thursday evening.

''That is amazing,'' said the Colombian-born Marks, saying that after months of
worrying, she'll finally be sworn in as a citizen on June 8 along with her
12-year-old son, David.

Others are not so lucky. The lawsuit names 82-year-old Catholic nun Edilma
Trujillo of Miami, who passed the exam in January 1997 but is still waiting to
be sworn in as a citizen.

Another, Angela Barrera, has been applying since 1996 but may not be able to
take the oath because her health is deteriorating due to Alzheimer's disease.

The INS declined to comment on the suit filed by the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center in Miami. But Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for Miami District Director
Robert Wallis, said reducing the backlog is the top priority.

The district, which serves all of Florida, is processing 200,000 applications
and applicants face an average delay of two years, Wooley said.

The suit contends that the INS by law must approve or deny applications within
four months of applicants taking citizenship exams.

The immigration agency is hiring more workers to reduce the backlog, said Karen
Kraushaar, a spokeswoman at INS headquarters in Washington. She said the problem
is that the INS got 1.6 million citizenship applications last year.

''There's no federal agency in this country that wouldn't be backlogged,'' she
said. ''We just don't have the manpower.''

Little said the INS hiring efforts are ''modest at best.'' The lawsuit asks the
court to order the INS to clear the backlog.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Maria Marks (mug)

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              118 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

             November 11, 1998, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLISH NATIONAL WITH TRANSPLANTS MUST LEAVE U.S.

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 282 words


A Polish woman fighting deportation because she underwent two organ transplants
exhausted her appeals to immigration officials and must leave the United States
by Friday, her attorney said Tuesday.

''The law is not evenhanded,'' said Frank Ricci, an attorney for the woman who
came to the United States for her sister's wedding in Stuart and stayed after a
liver and kidney transplant.

''If she was a superstar athlete, the government would have found a way to keep
her here,'' Ricci said.

Danuta Glazewska, 55, pleaded with immigration officials to allow her to stay
with her sister in Stuart, saying Polish hospitals have limited resources for
double transplant patients and the medications they require.

''We are running out of time and grasping for straws,'' said Stephen Schultz,
her brother-in-law. He spent Tuesday calling federal officials to find a way to
halt the deportation of Glazewska and her son, Robert, 29, a senior at the
University of Nebraska.

Soon after Glazewska and her son came to the United States in 1990 for the
wedding, Glazewska fell ill with hepatitis C and moved to Omaha for medical
care. She came to Stuart this summer to live with her sister.

If the pair does not leave voluntarily by Friday, they will be deported at
government expense and barred from returning to the United States for 10 years,
Ricci said.

Shultz said he contacted New York attorney Mark Scher, who said he will file a
final appeal to halt the deportation.

Ricci, a Palm Beach Gardens immigration attorney, filed motions to transfer
Glazewska's case to Miami and delay her deportation date. Those requests were
denied Monday by an immigration judge in Chicago.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              119 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 13, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 307 words


STUART - A Polish woman ordered by immigration officials to leave the country by
today is following the advice of her attorney and is staying, her family said
Thursday. Danuta Glazewska, 55, was told by New York attorney Mark Scher that he
would file an emergency appeal, said Stephen Schultz of Stuart, Glazewska's
brother-in-law. Glazewska entered the country on a visitor's visa in 1990 but
overstayed because she got hepatitis C and later had liver and kidney
transplants.

WEST PALM BEACH - The man who sent John Glenn into space, NASA Administrator
Daniel Goldin, will talk about the future of America's space program when he
addresses the Forum Club of the Palm Beaches Dec. 4. He also will discuss the
effects of some of the research conducted during Discovery's nine-day flight.
Tickets to the noon luncheon at the Helen Wilkes Hotel, 201 N. Flagler Drive,
West Palm Beach, are $ 20. Call 688-2247.

LAKE WORTH - A raccoon killed by two dogs on Yale Drive tested positive for
rabies Thursday, Palm Beach County animal control officials said. The dogs in
the College Park area were not stray and had their current shots. They have been
revaccinated and placed on a 45-day home quarantine, animal control officials
said. No one else was exposed. This is the seventh in Palm Beach County for
1998.

Palm Beach County will receive $ 503,892 to help establish a new after-school
care program as part of a grant package that President Clinton announced
Thursday. In all, $ 60 million in new grants will be given to 183 communities
nationwide. The money can be used to keep schools open longer, so children can
receive tutoring, drug and violence prevention counseling, and opportunities to
participate in supervised recreation, chorus, band and the arts. The U.S.
Department of Education got 2,000 applications for the grants.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              120 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  December 16, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

HONDURAN ASKS TO BE DEPORTED TO AID FAMILY IN MITCH CLEANUP

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 309 words


A former Lake Worth resident is pleading with immigration officials to deport
him to his native Honduras so he can help his family recover from Hurricane
Mitch.

Although Ricardo Reyes is being held for deportation, the U.S. Department of
Immigration and Naturalization Services has temporarily stopped deporting
Central Americans. The agency took the action last month to spare Central
America the burden of absorbing more people.

''I know the United States passed this rule because they are trying to help,''
Reyes, 22, said Tuesday. ''But there is no way I can help my family by sitting
in detention.''

Reyes is one of 12 Central Americans in custody at Krome Detention Center near
Miami who began a hunger strike last week to protest the INS rule. Ten of the
detainees ended their fast Monday, but Reyes and a Nicaraguan, Noel Balladares,
35, were still refusing food Tuesday.

Reyes and Balladares are being monitored by nurses and will be given forced,
intravenous feeding if the strike becomes life-threatening, said Dan Kane, an
INS spokesman at Krome.

Reyes is in detention because he was convicted of the burglary of a Lake Worth
home in 1996 and arson of a home in Miami-Dade County, state records show. He
served 2 years in prison before being sent to Krome three months ago.

Balladares, who spent nine hears in prison for armed robbery, said he won't
start eating again until he is given a promise of release.

''I want to be deported,'' he said. ''My whole family is in Nicaragua, and my
mother is very sick.''

Kane said 12 of the 55 Central Americans at Krome have been freed so they could
find jobs and send money back to their homeland. The others have felony
convictions and are not eligible for release.

''They feel they are living in a state of limbo here,'' Kane said. ''They want
to go back to their country.''

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              121 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 24, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ARE COMING FASTER THAN NEW POLICIES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 485 words


Official Washington hasn't noticed that if Americans lined up and counted off by
tens, every group of 10 would contain one immigrant.

That's not historically high; the percentage of foreign-born residents stood at
around 15 percent from 1860 to 1920. But it reflects great recent change. In
1970, legal immigrants made up 4.8 percent of the population. The total
immigrant population was 26.3 million in 1998, compared with 9.6 million in
1970, according to the not-for-profit Center for Immigration Studies, which
lobbies for limits on immigration. The last official Census Bureau count made
the number 25.8 million as of March 1997.

Several other groups study immigration patterns and debate whether the good
outweighs the bad within this trend. Good or bad, however, Congress and the
White House didn't expect it. Now that it's happening, they can't seem to see
it.

State and local officials don't have time for debates. They are busy dealing
with the phenomenon - looking for classrooms for immigrant children,
English-language classes for immigrants seeking citizenship and procedures to
deal with illegals who appear on their beaches, as 17 Haitians did in St. Lucie
County Wednesday. Estimates of the needs for public services, from schools to
hospitals, got washed away by two waves of Cubans, a wave of Central Americans
displaced by civil war and a steady stream of Haitians. More Central Americans,
whom Hurricane Mitch displaced, are on their way.

That's Florida. California, New York, New Jersey and Texas also register high on
the impact scale. But even inland states pay for gaps between what they planned
for and what, due to immigration, they got. Minneapolis' Laotian Hmong
neighborhood exemplifies how the nation's wars have affected cities' social
services, but only the national government has the power to deal with
immigration before the immigrants arrive.

Congress passed major legislation, billed as reform, in the late 1980s, but the
main effect of that was to legalize what already had happened. Congress
sideswiped immigrants and recently naturalized citizens in major welfare
legislation, billed as reform, in 1996. But Congress has whittled away most of
the worst portions that affect new Americans.

Otherwise, all is silence. Former California Gov. Pete Wilson once hoped to ride
to the White House with an immigration sweep, but polls turned against him.
Immigrant-bashing was a losing issue in last year's California races.

So immigration became an issue that can backfire politically as well as one with
no easy solutions. Those are two reasons for national lawmakers to focus on that
subject rather than Kenneth Starr's report. But the maturity of California
voters in rejecting simplistic approaches suggests that the people, if not the
leaders, are ready for serious discussion of what we should expect from, and do
about, immigration and immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              122 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                February 28, 1999, Sunday, EARLY SUNDAY EDITION

SON'S DEPORTATION ANGERS ADOPTIVE PARENT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Adopted by an American couple 20 years ago, 25-year-old John Gaul III has been
deported to his native Thailand.

Legislation designed to get tough on immigrants who commit crimes, some
forgotten paperwork and a teenage run-in with the law consigned Gaul to an
uncertain future Monday with little prospect of ever returning home.

His mother, Pam Gaul, flew to Bangkok on Wednesday to help her son adjust to his
native, yet foreign, country. She will return after two weeks to her job as a
respiratory therapist to support her son financially through his transition.

She is angry at Congress for passing the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act.

''The purpose of the original legislation was to combat terrorism,'' she told
the St. Petersburg Times. ''It was not to tear families apart.''

The law expanded the list of felonies for which non-citizens could be deported
and made it retroactive. Pam Gaul said it is harsh and should address hard-core
criminals, not people like her son.

At 19, he was convicted in Tampa of writing worthless checks and stealing a car,
both felonies. He served 20 months in prison and planned to apply for
citizenship when he was released Dec. 31, 1996.

Immigration officials, instead, took him to a Bradenton deportation center where
he stayed four months before his mother bailed him out. He was ordered back last
July and remained there until his mother ended an appeals process to save his
flagging spirit.

Because he was adopted by Americans, he could have obtained automatic
citizenship if the Gauls, now divorced, had applied before he became an adult,
but they were unaware of that until he was 17.

They applied at that time, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service turned
them down because the wrong fee had been submitted. He was still 17 before a new
application and the correct fee were submitted, but he turned 18 by the time it
was processed and no longer was eligible for automatic citizenship, Pam Gaul
said.

An immigration judge ruled INS had taken too long to process the application,
but the 1996 law also barred judges from overturning contested deportation
cases.

The Gauls don't have connections to members of Congress such as Rep. Bill
McCollum, R-Orlando, who is sponsoring a bill to bring home the son of the
treasurer of the Orange County Republican Party. Robert Anthony Broley was
deported to Canada after serving four years for theft, burglary, forgery and
trafficking in stolen goods.

''It really saddens me that the law doesn't apply on the same level to all
people,'' Pam Gaul said.

Even if the law is changed, her son cannot seek a return to the United States
for 20 years, and Gaul said she doubts he would be granted approval even then.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W, 1. John Gaul III (mug), 2. BARBARA HERNANDEZ/The St.
Petersburg Times, Pam Gaul of Tampa packs a bag of her adopted son's clothes.
Adopted as a toddler, her son was deported as the result of a law designed to
get tough of immigrants who commit crimes

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              123 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                April 16, 1999, Friday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAW FORCES STATE TO RUN TOPLESS DANCER AD

BYLINE: A. Scharnhorst, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 390 words


Susan Reed has no trouble finding women willing to perform topless in her Stuart
nightclub. Yet, the state labor department is overseeing a competitor's effort
to import foreign exotic dancers.

The competitor - whom Florida Department of Labor officials have not identified
- claims that there is a dearth of exotic dancers in his market. So he asked for
federal and state permission to hire immigrant dancers. Before the approval is
granted, though, the state must prove the shortage exists.

This week, the state has run a help-wanted ad in The Palm Beach Post seeking
exotic dancers to "perform modern and acrobatic dances, coordinating body
movements to musical accompaniment." The ad says the Stuart employer offers
full-time work, 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. at a rate of $ 11 an hour - or $ 22,800
annually - to women with at least four years experience.

Club owners and dancers find that preposterous.

" I don't know why they'd have to import them when there are hundreds of girls
in the United States and Florida" who are experienced exotic dancers, said a
dancer in North Florida who calls herself Gemini. "That doesn't make sense to
me.''

Reed, who owns Silhouettes Nightclub, agrees: "I turn away girls every day . . .
We have no problem.''

The state and federal process, known as the Alien Labor Certification Program,
is designed to ensure that U.S. workers aren't replaced by foreign labor, said
Linda King, of the state labor department. The state did not pay for the ad, she
said.

King did not say whether the state has received applications as a result of the
ad. If no one applies, it can recommend that the U.S. Department of Labor allow
the club owner to hire from outside the country. Labor officials in Atlanta said
they have processed other requests to hire exotic dancers from overseas.

If federal permission is given, immigration officials would issue temporary work
visas for the women. When the visas expire, the women could be deported or apply
for more permanent status, federal documents indicate. Only 66,000 temporary,
non-agricultural employees are allowed to work in the U.S. each year, said
Eyleen Schmidt, a U.S. Labor Department spokeswoman.

The visa is the same type used for workers without college degrees, such as
plumbers, welders and minor league baseball players, Schmidt said.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              124 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 12, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN REFUGEE REGULATIONS SET

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


About 50,000 Haitian refugees eligible to become permanent residents of the
United States can apply to change their status beginning next month, under
regulations being published today by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Eligible refugees - primarily those who filed for asylum prior to December 31,
1995 - have until March 31, 2000 to apply for permanent residency status. About
70 percent of those refugees live in South Florida.

The INS announced the regulations Tuesday at simultaneous news conferences in
Washington and Miami. The regulations are based on the Haitian Refugee
Immigration Fairness Act passed by Congress last year and signed by President
Clinton. Chief sponsors of the act were Florida Sens. Bob Graham, a Democrat,
and Connie Mack, a Republican, and Rep. Carrie Meek, a Democrat from Miami.

In addition to Haitian refugees who applied for asylum or were ''paroled'' into
the United States for emergency or safety reasons before Dec. 31, 1995, the act
applies to any Haitian who was a child - unmarried and under 21 - before that
date and arrived, and remained, without parents after arrival or became orphaned
after arrival. It also would apply to any Haitian child abandoned by parents or
guardians before April 1, 1998.

To be considered eligible, refugees must not have been outside the United States
for more than 180 days since Dec. 31, 1995.

Haitians who had previously applied for asylum and had their applications
denied, and whose deportation orders have been issued, will be granted a stay
for 120 days after today to allow them to apply for the permanent residency
status.

Meek estimated another 50,000 refugees who do not meet the eligibility
requirements also live in South Florida. INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said
they would be treated the same as all other people who do not have legal status
to remain in the United States and are subject to deportation.

INS officials plan this week to begin training workers from community
organizations that deal with Haitians to enable them to assist refugees in
applying for the change in status.

Virtually all of those eligible for a change in status already have a temporary
work permit, which expires in December.

Applications may be obtained at INS offices around the country, but must be
mailed back to the agency's service center in Lincoln, Neb.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              125 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 14, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

OLD CRIMES MEAN JAIL FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1212 words


Two years ago, Ralph Richardson was a small businessman who coached his church
soccer team and dreamed of turning his commercial cleaning firm in suburban
Atlanta into a big success.

An unlucky convergence of a new immigration law, a weekend trip to Haiti and a
7-year-old cocaine-trafficking charge doomed the 33-year-old immigrant's plans.
He's spent the last 20 months at the Krome Detention Center near Miami as a
criminally tainted immigrant, awaiting deportation.

Richardson's luck could be changing. Converging in his favor are a growing
dissent over the 1996 immigration law and a favorable June 1 ruling by the U.S.
Supreme Court in his lawsuit, Richardson vs. the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The ruling - which private immigration lawyers say promises relief for thousands
of detained immigrants - ordered the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Atlanta to consider Richardson's claim that his indefinite detention violates
the U.S. Constitution.

''I'm not out to be a celebrity,'' said Richardson, whose name is now known to
civil rights lawyers and jailed immigrants across the country. ''I just want to
go home to my family. I want to be free.''

Private immigration attorneys say the 1996 law's intent - to deport dangerous
felons as they leave prison - entraps legal residents whose crimes, including
some misdemeanors, were committed years ago. Some longtime legal residents are
caught as they file for U.S. citizenship. Richardson was arrested in 1997 when
he was passing through Miami International Airport after a two-day trip to Haiti
with his mother.

Disenchantment with the law even extends to the immigration service, which has
watched the number of detained immigrants double to 16,400 since the law's
passage.

At Krome, 327 of the detention center's 501 beds are taken up by immigrants
detained because of crimes in their past. The rest are immigrants caught
sneaking into the country or working illegally.

''Frankly, we don't have the space to detain every petty criminal alien who
committed a crime 20 years ago and has since turned his life around,'' said one
high-ranking INS official who asked not to be named. ''We are just following the
law.''

Constitutional issues

U.S. Justice Department attorneys representing the INS seemed to be arguing for
the other side. They sided with Richardson, saying the constitutional issues
raised should be reviewed.

The 1996 law lowered the threshold of crimes prompting deportation. Instead of
the ''aggravated felon'' definition previously used, anyone convicted of a crime
carrying a sentence of one year or more was subject to detention and
deportation. The previous threshold was a five-year sentence.

''In some cases, the immigrant faces a virtual life sentence years after the
commission of an often relatively minor offense,'' said Cheryl Little, director
of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami. The law, which requires
detention until deportation, makes ''lifers'' out of immigrants from Cuba,
Vietnam and other countries that won't accept them back, she said.

The 1996 law also bars immigrants from challenging their detention in court, the
issue raised by Richardson.

That violates their constitutional rights, says attorney Joan Friedland,
Little's colleague at the advocacy center.

''It's a fundamental principle in this country that you have access to the
courts to challenge government decisions,'' Friedland said.

Not a repeat offender

Richardson claims the INS refuses to recognize that he has lived a crime-free
life since his 1990 conviction in Pensacola for possession of 1 pound of crack
cocaine. He pleaded no contest to the felony and served 2 years in prison.

The Supreme Court's ruling in Richardson's case is significant, but it might be
muted because many immigrants cannot afford to hire attorneys to fight their
detentions, Friedland said.

Richardson is being represented at no cost by Ira Kurzban, a Miami attorney
known for his advocacy of immigrant rights.

While waiting for a ruling from the Atlanta appeals court, Kurzban is fighting
in INS administrative courts for his client's right to be free on bond while
challenging his deportation. An immigration judge in Miami last week said
Richardson can petition to cancel his deportation.

''They are still taking a position that he's not eligible for release,'' Kurzban
said. ''Our position is that he should have never been detained in the first
place.''

West Palm Beach attorney Stuart Karden is fighting a similar battle for his
client, Jamaican-born Sanguintti McHugh, 47, who was taken into custody in
September on a 1993 marijuana possession charge.

McHugh, a West Palm Beach carpenter, pleaded guilty and served 42 days in jail
in St. Lucie County. Even though a finding of guilt was withheld, the 1996
immigration law made the plea a deportable offense, Karden said.

While McHugh sits in an immigration jail in Louisiana, Karden is seeking bond
for his client and trying to withdraw the 1993 plea, saying the judge never told
McHugh that he could be deported.

Softening harsh sanctions

The Richardson case might be the legal breakthrough, but the INS and Congress
also are taking steps to soften the harsh sanctions of the 1996 law.

After a 47-day hunger strike by relatives of Krome detainees ended in May, INS
Commissioner Doris Meissner announced that all long-term detainees in the
country would have their cases reviewed to see if any are eligible for release.

Since then, six from Krome have been freed, including five relatives of the
hunger strikers. The sixth was an Ethopian Jew, Lugseged Dhine, who had been
held for nine years.

''There are thousands of nonviolent, first-time offenders who deserve to be
reviewed,'' Dhine said last week from his home in Arizona. ''The law was not
designed for these kind of people.''

Senators jump on bandwagon

Some senators are trying to change the law. Earlier this year, U.S. Sen. Daniel
Moynihan, D-N.Y., proposed restoring court review, providing court-appointed
attorneys for immigrants challenging detention and allowing immigrants with
criminal punishments of less than five years to petition for cancellation of
deportation.

U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., supports those amendments, which are now being
considered by a Senate subcommittee. Graham met last week with INS officials in
Miami to encourage releasing nonviolent detainees. INS officials are considering
an alternative that would place some in halfway houses or other rehabilitative
programs.

Graham, one of three senators to vote against the 1996 act, said the ''one size
fits all'' treatment of ex-offender immigrants is wrong. Those who cannot be
deported to their native countries ''receive the same sentence - life
imprisonment - without regard to the seriousness of their crime,'' Graham
explained.

Richardson says so far his battle is being won in small steps. On Thursday, INS
detention officials allowed him to trade his red jumpsuit - the color worn by
aggravated felons - to orange. Soon, he hopes to be reunited with his wife and
three children in Norcross outside of Atlanta.

''I'm praying that that will happen soon,'' he said. ''But, like everything with
INS, it's unpredictable.''

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (C) & PHOTO (B&W, 1. (C) STAFF GRAPHIC, Immigrants in INS
detention center, 2. (B&W) ALAN DIAZ/The Associated Press, Ralph Richardson has
spent the last 20 months at Krome Detention Center near Miami as a criminally
tainted immigrant, awaiting deportation. He hopes his luck is about to change.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              126 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 1, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

RAILROAD KILLER SPARKS INS PROBE

BYLINE: Bob Dart, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department will investigate why the Border Patrol repeatedly
released a suspected serial killer from Mexico after routinely apprehending him
at checkpoints, Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner Doris
Meissner said Thursday.

The announcement came hours after U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, called the INS
an ''agency in crisis'' whose incompetence is endangering American lives as well
as wasting taxpayer money.

''Rafael Resendez-Ramirez, a career criminal alien, is a 'most wanted' poster
child for what is wrong with federal enforcement of our immigration laws,'' said
Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. ''He is
accused of committing at least eight murders, four of which occurred since his
(latest) release June 2 by the INS.''

In a prepared statement, Meissner conceded that the case has ''raised serious
questions'' about the agency's performance. She said the matter has been
referred to the Justice Department's Office of the Inspector General for
investigation.

Earlier, INS officials explained that Resendez-Ramirez was returned to Mexico
after being caught trying to enter the country illegally because the agency's
computerized identification system did not reveal his extensive criminal
background. Although the INS is a division of the Justice Department, its IDENT
system apparently is not linked to the FBI data base that identifies
Resendez-Ramirez as one of the nation's 10 most wanted fugitives.

''IDENT is not even connected to the INS's own data bases on deported aliens,''
said Smith at a news conference in the Capitol. ''The INS has spent more than $
65 million on a system that does not protect the public.''

A nationwide manhunt is under way for Resendez-Ramirez, a tattooed ex-convict
charged with two murders in Illinois and suspected in five deaths in Texas and
one in Kentucky. All the victims were killed near railroad tracks.

The FBI says the suspect's real name is Angel Leoncio Reyes Recendis.

''Nine times between January 1998 and June of this year, Resendez-Ramirez was
caught entering the U.S. illegally,'' Smith said. ''Each time, the Border Patrol
released him voluntarily.''

Meissner confirmed that Resendez-Ramirez has been formally deported three times
and apprehended and voluntarily returned to Mexico on at least eight other
occasions.


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              127 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 2, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

REJECT SPECIAL STATUS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 301 words


It came as no surprise that immigration officials released the six Cuban rafters
whom the Coast Guard confronted on a Miami-Dade County beach Tuesday afternoon.
Between the Coast Guard's actions and the political pressure from
Cuban-Americans, any other decision would have been a shock.

The bigger question is what will happen next. Predictably, Cuban-American
lawmakers already are calling for an end to any controls on immigration from
that country. Since 1994, the United States has accepted roughly 20,000 Cubans
each year if they apply for visas. Those who try to immigrate illegally and are
stopped at sea are returned to Cuba. Those who reach land can stay.

U.S. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Miami, wants a return to the Cuban Adjustment
Act, which Congress approved 33 years ago during the Cold War. It allowed any
Cuban immigrant to apply for permanent resident status after a year and a day.
It granted to Cuban immigrants a status no other group ever has enjoyed.

It would be a mistake to grant Rep. Diaz-Balart's request, and not just because
of the double standard it would set compared with our policy that calls for
repatriating all immigrants from Haiti. Doing as Rep. Diaz-Balart and others
demand would perpetuate America's failed Cuba policy of 40 years that is based
on the exile groups' obsession with Fidel Castro.

It also would be a mistake to threaten Cuba with a blockade if Castro engineers
another mass exodus, as he did in 1980. First, a blockade would amount to an act
of war. Second, we would have to blockade 1,000 miles of coast on the island's
north shore.

Any modest reform that could prevent incidents like Tuesday's would be helpful.
But renewing a special status simply in response to political intimidation of
U.S. officials would be detrimental.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              128 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 13, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

MIAMI BEACH EVENT PROVES INS WON'T BE EVENHANDED

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 300 words


In response to the July 1 editorial "U.S. immigration policy a license to kill
all logic," I write on behalf of every immigrant who does not rush our shores to
get into the country. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has once again
indiscriminately and irrationally administered its own form of "justice for
all." I call for reinstituting the amnesty legalization program.

We now know that there is at least strong evidence that the six Cubans who came
ashore in Miami Beach on June 29 were brought here as part of a smuggling
operation. This is illegal. The acts of the Coast Guard were just as egregious;
treating any human being with water hoses, pepper spray and Mace is disgraceful.

Since the incident, matters have become worse. After unprecedented media
coverage, the INS again showed that it does not administer justice
even-handedly. Media and public pressure prevailed, and notwithstanding the
evidence of a smuggling operation, the INS agreed to allow the six to remain in
the United States, contradicting its own policy. People of other nationalities
who do not have a strong political voice in the U.S. would not have been so
fortunate.

The INS is so backlogged that there is a four-year delay in approving
applications for people who want to become Americans. This system administered
by the INS is antiquated. So, if you are four years behind in getting your green
card because the INS is so slow, you are branded as an undesirable and not given
a driver license.

The disparities and indiscriminate application of the law must end.

Frank W. Ricci

Palm Beach Gardens

Editor's note: Frank W. Ricci is a member of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association and is affiliated with the American Immigration Law Center, a firm
based in Palm Beach Gardens.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              129 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 15, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CUBAN-AMERICANS SHOULD RESPECT LAW THAT LET THEM IN U.S.

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 204 words


A June 30 photo in The Post showed police officers helping the Coast Guard
apprehend a Cuban refugee who had jumped from a rowboat containing other
refugees and run onto the beach at Miami Beach.

Another photo in the same issue showed a group of beachgoers protesting and
screaming at the officials who were attempting to take the refugees into custody
and turn the boat away from the shore.

The anger the beachgoers directed against the officers was unjustified. The
officers were enforcing the immigration laws. The refugees were committing an
illegal act of entry into the United States.

I wonder whether the beachgoers in the photo would have protested so vehemently
had the refugees been from Haiti, Honduras or countries other than Cuba. Were
the protesters going to provide for these refugees?

The United States has shown its generosity and risked the lives of our
servicemen to help downtrodden and persecuted people in many parts of the world.
We have implemented immigration laws to help those in need to enter our country
legally.

Our laws should be respected by both citizens and immigrants. And our
authorities who enforce the laws should not be vilified.

Frances L. Weissman

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, PATRICK FARRELL/1999 AP File Photo, Cuban-Americans block
traffic June 29 on the MacArthur Causeway across from the Miami Coast Guard
station to protest the handling of six Cuban refugees earlier that day.

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              130 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 16, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT'S CASE WON'T BE REVIEWED, COURT RULES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 180 words


A Haitian-American fighting indefinite detention by U.S. immigration authorities
is not entitled to a court review of his case, a federal appeals court has
ruled.

Ralph Richardson, 33, who came to the United States as an infant, got the U.S.
Supreme Court's attention over his argument that the detention was
unconstitutional.

But the case was returned to the 11th U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta, which
ruled Wednesday that Richardson had no right to habeas corpus, or a review of
his detention.

"I think the court has stood the law of habeas on its head," Richardson's
attorney, Ira Kurzban, said Thursday. "It's unfortunate."

Richardson, formerly of suburban Atlanta, was arrested in 1997, returning from a
brief visit to Haiti and detained for deportation because of a 1990 drug
conviction for which he served two years in prison.

A 1996 immigration law made such convictions a deportable offense. Richardson
has spent the past two years in Krome Detention Center near Miami. He goes
before an immigration judge on Monday in a bid to cancel his deportation.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              131 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 17, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SUE ATTORNEY OVER VISA CLAIM;
DISPUTE INVOLVES U.S. RULES ON FOREIGN INVESTORS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 744 words


The advertisements appearing in overseas editions of U.S. newsmagazines in
Europe and the Middle East were enticing for foreigners looking for a life in
the United States.

Invest $ 100,000 and get a green card, promised Frank W. Ricci, a Palm Beach
Gardens immigration attorney.

The ads carried an asterisk - *if eligible - which for most clients now
punctuates like an exclamation mark.

"I feel totally destroyed at the moment," said Asad Kazmi, an immigrant from
Pakistan who says in a lawsuit that in 1997, Ricci promised him a visa within
three months but never delivered. "I've been taken for a ride."

Kazmi is one of three immigrants who have sued Ricci since late 1998, alleging
he promised investor visas and then refused to return their money when he
couldn't deliver.

Rajnikant Patel, who came here from India, sued this week, claiming he gave
Ricci $ 100,000 to put in trust and another $ 20,000 for legal fees, all
refundable if the visa was denied. The U.S. government rejected Patel's visa in
March, but Patel says Ricci won't return his money.

The third lawsuit, filed by a dual citizen of Russia and Israel, was settled out
of court for undisclosed terms in April.

Ricci says he's done nothing wrong. He said he has repaid Kazmi and is not
refunding Patel's money because he is appealing the denial of Patel's visa.

Patel says Ricci should have known when he took his money in early 1998 that the
federal government had placed a hold on applicants seeking an investor visa with
an investment of only $ 100,000. The law passed by Congress in 1990 says
investors must put up $ 1 million - $ 500,000 if the investment was to start a
business in an area of high unemployment.

Soon after the law was enacted, immigration attorneys sought ways to limit the
initial amount put up by clients by using pooled money, loans and promissory
notes. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service froze such applications
in early 1998, saying it was impossible to calculate how much money the
immigrant was actually investing.

The freeze was lifted in September, but the INS is taking a hard look at
applicants that don't show the money readily available.

Ricci said he no longer promotes the visa in seminars or paid ads, saying it
appeared that the INS was "hell-bent on killing the program." But his office's
Web site continues to claim that investors can get green cards "within months"
and applicants need an investment of only $ 100,000.

No visas are available for that sum, said Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman. He
said some attorneys began marketing packages that appeared to show the applicant
had the required investment but actually did not.

"It's necessary for investors to have $ 500,000 of their own money that they
take out of their personal bank accounts or have financial arrangements where
they can acquire the money to invest," Bergeron said. "If a company is marketing
packages that a person can qualify with only $ 100,000, then that person should
make a decision if that company is reputable enough."

Ricci said the pooled-resource packages were being approved by INS at a high
rate before the 1998 hold on applications. .

Ricci said he's gotten 12 clients approved and has appealed 30 cases of denied
visas, including Patel's.

Patel says he simply wants his money back. His suit accuses Ricci of civil
theft, fraud and malpractice and claims Ricci diverted his $ 120,000 from a
trust account.

Ricci says he's trying to protect Patel's interest: "I've told him the
application is not categorically denied. It was just denied at the first level."

But for now, Ricci says he won't file any more visa applications using pooled
money to reach the $ 500,000 minimum. "We are telling clients we are not
accepting any applications unless they are completely independent investments,"
he said.

How investor visas work

Foreigners can get a visa and a conditional green card if they invest $
1,000,000 in a new enterprise in the United States, or $ 500,000 if the business
is created in an area of high unemployment. Other provisions of the visa
include:

The business must create at least 10 full-time jobs for U.S. residents.

The spouse and children of the investor also get visas but can't be counted as
the required 10 employees.

If conditions of the visa are met within two years, the investor and his family
are granted green cards and all can remain in the United States as legal
residents.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, UNDER FIRE: Frank Ricci is being sued by immigrants who say
he promised them visas.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              132 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 26, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

STORY CLARIFIES FOLLY OF IMMIGRATION LAW

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 151 words


The July 17 Local News article "Bring the whole family - even if it's 22 people"
is a perfect illustration of the calamitous effect of the Immigration Act of
1965 that was promoted by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and signed into law by
President Lyndon Johnson.

This law contains a loophole that allows immigrants, once they have been
established here, to send for relatives, as in the case of the Liberian woman in
the article who managed to get 22 of her family to Florida with the help of
Catholic Charities and Lutheran Services. Now taxpayers have to pay the bills
for these unskilled Africans - everything from food stamps and welfare to
medical care and housing.

We are well on our way to becoming a Third World country because of our idiotic
immigration policy. The State Department even cooperates by reimbursing the
so-called resettlement agencies.

Geoffrey Nelson

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              133 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 31, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

VETERANS

SECTION: SPECIAL, Pg. 43

LENGTH: 224 words


Veterans Affairs: The 265-bed Veteran Affairs Medical Center in Riviera Beach
serves 267,000 veterans in Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Indian River, Glades,
Okeechobee and Hendry counties. Veterans who need information on services can
call 882-8262. The Vet Center, 585-0441, at 2311 10th Ave. N., Suite 13, in Lake
Worth, provides counseling for job placement, benefits, post-traumatic stress
disorders and readjustment.

IMMIGRATION

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service: Enforces laws regulating entry and
stay of immigrants. Office at 4360 Northlake Blvd., Palm Beach Gardens, is open
from 7 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. and serves the area from Sebastian to Boca Raton.
People seeking services from the office must visit in person; they will be given
an appointment for a later date. Phone: (800) 375-5283 for recorded messages on
immigration regulations, or (800) 870-3676 to order forms. Messages are in
English and Spanish.

U.S. Customs: The Customs office inspects international travelers and cargo
shipments at airports, seaports and designated marinas. Address: 4 E. Port Road,
Suite 104, Riviera Beach. For information on importing or exporting goods or on
travel laws, call the Customs port director at the Port of Palm Beach, 844-4393.
To report tips on drug smuggling or other customs violations, call (800)
BE-ALERT.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
DISCOVER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              134 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 22, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

IF ANYTHING, IMMIGRATION LAWS TOO LAX

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 137 words


I read with interest the Nov. 13 article ''Immigration law tearing family apart,
West Palm man says.'' The outrageous part of the scenario is that Annelise
Vidrine, a drug felon who was already deported but returned through Mexico, was
permitted to open a business and live as a legal citizen.

Thanks to the efforts of U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, some of the
ridiculously permissive immigration laws are being reviewed.

Undocumented immigrants are taking jobs and classroom space away from legal
citizens, and they are contributing to the cost of law enforcement and public
health care for all who are here legally, either by birth or legal immigration.
Too bad there isn't a program offering a $ 50 bounty for turning in illegal
aliens; it would save us a fortune.

Ted Guerin

Boynton Beach


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              135 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 25, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CIRCUMSTANCES ASIDE, INS OBEYED LAW

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 162 words


In the case of John Vidrine and his family, described in the Nov. 13 article
"Immigration law tears family apart, West Palm man says," the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service is held to be the bad guy for arresting
Mr. Vidrine's wife. But the INS was obliged to do so because of a law Congress
passed in 1996 to curb drug offenses. Annelise Vidrine's rearrest resulted from
the denial of her asylum application. It was bad enough that her original
offense involved drugs, but that was compounded by her illegal return after
deportation, which created yet another mandatory reason for her deportation.

It is said the Vidrines married in 1989 some years after her drug conviction. It
is hardly likely that Mr. Vidrine was unaware of this at the time of their
marriage.

Mr. Vidrine's 90 letters to members of Congress apparently have not evoked
sufficient sympathy for anyone to sponsor a private bill on her behalf.


John J. Daly

Palm City


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              136 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 28, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

TRACKING ALL FOREIGNERS IS BORDERLINE HYSTERIA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 392 words


A new outbreak of border paranoia will infect Congress after the recent arrests
of suspected terrorists in Washington state and Vermont.

Supporters of a law that requires the government to trackevery foreigner
entering the United States have grown more vocal as fears of Y2K attacks rise.
Passed in 1996 as part of the Immigrant Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act,
the law orders the Immigration and Naturalization Service to develop an
automated system to monitor the entry and exit of all non-U.S. citizens. The INS
has until 2001 to come up with a plan.

The Senate, rightly, has voted three times to repeal the law, but the House has
refused to follow. Canada and Northern states say the law is sure to create long
lines at border crossings and damage tourism and commerce.

Foreigners entering the country might be forced to supply specific details of
their visit - itineraries, lodging plans, phone numbers - that the INS would use
for tracking in a computer database. The system would help identify noncitizens
who stay here too long, proponents say, and deter the entry of terrorists.

Asking the already overburdened and beleaguered INS to assume such a ponderous
task is reason enough to fear this law. Yet more compelling is the ideological
argument that the world's model open society should not restrict its openness.
More than a line of latitude on a map, the U.S.-Canada border has been a
much-envied symbol of cooperation between neighbor nations, producing an
abundance of goodwill that far outweighs the occasional problems.

Working together, U.S. and Canadian authorities arrested the suspected
terrorists this month. Working together, the two nations can find ways to track
those who need tracking without restricting access for millions who don't. House
members should reject the call to paranoia and join the Senate in repealing a
bad law. They should listen to North Dakota Gov. Ed Schafer, a Republican who
understands life on the Canadian border in ways those inside the Washington
Beltway don't.

"In the old West, you shoot the bad guys," Gov. Schafer says. "You don't
handcuff the good guys."

Don't summarily punish all foreign visitors because some isolationist lawmakers
are nervous about terrorists. The most powerful nation in the world is strong
enough to leave its freedom out for all to see.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              137 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 6, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

ELIAN MUST RETURN TO CUBA;
INS DECISION SPARKS MIAMI PROTESTS

BYLINE: Mike Williams and Jenny Staletovich, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1250 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old boy who lost his mother on a perilous voyage from
Cuba and then became the center of an international tug of war, should be
returned to his father in Cuba, federal immigration officials announced
Wednesday.

"This little boy who has been through so much belongs with his father,"
Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said,
announcing her decision in Washington. "It is the right decision legally; it is
the right decision morally."

But the decision immediately touched off fiery protests by hundreds of
Cubans-Americans, some of whom vowed to shut down the city over the next few
days to dramatize their anger.

While angry Cuban exiles gathered outside the Little Havana home where Elian has
been living with relatives here, those same relatives vowed to go to court to
try to halt the boy's return to the Communist island, expected to occur sometime
in the next two weeks.

"All I want is the chance to explain the family's point of view," said a tearful
Marisleysis Gonzalez, Elian's cousin. "His mother risked her life for him to win
his liberty and I hope this country will at least give us the opportunity to
speak for him."

As men from the militant anti-Castro group Alpha 66 wandered about in black
T-shirts, berets and combat boots, police blocked off four square blocks of
Elian's neighborhood in Little Havana. Cars were parked in yards, on sidewalks,
in the middle of streets. Hot dog and peanut vendors set up. People waved
American and Cuban flags and cursed Fidel Castro. A woman handed out hundreds of
postcards addressed to the White House with a photo of Elian and his dead mother
on the front. "This child," the postcards said, "has a right to liberty."

A call had gone out earlier in the day for people to form "a human chain" around
Elian's house. Spanish-language radio stations repeated the call and the crowd
grew, though no "chain" actually formed.

Ramon Sanchez, a leader of the anti-Castro Democracy Movement, said the protests
would only intensify in the days to come. He called for a "human chain" to form
around the county courthouse at noon today to show solidarity with Elian and
said exiles may try to block traffic at the airport and the Port of Miami and
other locations to dramatize their cause.

"What we want is to paralyze the legal process," said Sanchez. "We hope we don't
have to get to the point of paralyzing the city, but we have that ability."

Mayor disappointed


Late in the day, Miami-Dade Mayor Alex Penelas met with the family, then stepped
outside to urge protestors to remain peaceful. "I'm distraught by this," he
said. "Never in my life did I imagine the decision would be made to send Elian
back."

Penelas said he had expressed his disappointment to Vice President Al Gore. "I
told him either the administration washed its hands of this or cut some secret
deal with the Cuban government."

In Cuba, broadcasters broke into regular programming on state television to
announce the decision, warning the Cuban people not to be too optimistic just
yet. There was no immediate reaction from Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
or from Cuban leader Fidel Castro.

In Washington, President Bill Clinton praised what he called a tough decision.

"I told you when we started this that I would do my best to keep this decision
out of politics," Clinton said. "We have done that."

At the center of Wednesday's swirling mix of politics and emotion, Elian
attended a Miami elementary school. Relatives, after being told of the
announcement by INS officials, hustled him in and out of cars and took him to an
undisclosed location.

"To this point, he doesn't know what's going on," his cousin told reporters.

Despite the announcement, the boy's immediate fate was still somewhat uncertain.

While Meissner gave a Jan. 14 deadline for Elian's return to Cuba, she left open
exactly how the transfer will take place. U.S. immigration officials will give
Elian's father a special visa to come to Miami to get him or will allow a third
party, perhaps a religious organization, to take the boy to Cuba, she said.

"It is our hope that with the knowledge of today's decision, the Miami relatives
will agree to cooperate and work together with either Elian's father or a third
party to facilitate Elian's return to his father," she said.

Late Wednesday, there were reports that Elian's father has requested that the
National Council of Churches bring the boy back to Cuba. Representatives of the
group met with him in Cuba this week and offered to do so.

Asylum hearing sought


Immigration officials do not anticipate forcibly removing Elian from his Miami
relatives, Meissner said. It is also an image that Clinton administration
officials desperately want to avoid.

But the family clearly seemed reluctant to give up the fight, and the slow pace
with which the INS was moving gave leaders of Miami's volatile exile community
more time to plan protests and plot strategy.

Lawyers for Elian's Miami relatives said they sent letters following Meissner's
announcement to Clinton and U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno requesting an
asylum hearing for the boy. If there is no favorable response, they will file a
federal lawsuit asking for an injunction to halt Elian's return to Cuba.

"The federal courts have the jurisdiction to mandate that the INS follow its own
rules and regulations," said Linda Osberg-Braun, one of the family's attorneys.
"It's unprecedented to neglect letting someone apply for political asylum."

Several legal scholars, however, said the family has little hope of prevailing
in court.

"There is not the slightest hint of unfitness of the father," said University of
Miami law professor David Abraham, an immigration expert.

Indeed, Elian's father reportedly maintained a close, loving relationship with
the boy, even after he and Elian's mother divorced. Family photos show them in
loving embraces, while neighbors said Juan Miguel Gonzalez has been heartbroken
at his son's ordeal.

The father has said he was unaware that Elian's mother, Elizabeth, was planning
to flee Cuba. She and nine others drowned when their small boat capsized. Elian
was rescued clinging to an inner tube in stormy seas on Thanksgiving Day.

Elian's Miami relatives say the father should come to Miami and present his
facts in a court of law, but Gonzalez has told reporters he is reluctant to make
the trip because he fears he might be attacked.

Case highlights bad relations


The case has been one of the most dramatic examples of the poisonous relations
between Miami's Cuban exiles and the Castro government. While Castro has made
Elian a cause celebre in Cuba, distributing thousands of T-shirts with his
picture and speaking at rallies that have drawn huge crowds, Miami's exiles have
rallied to the boy with equal emotional fervor and political zeal.resume

"Why should he go back to Cuba?" said Alex Ramirez de Arellano, who stood
outside the home of Elian's relatives Wednesday. "If he goes, he'll be eating
dog food with no future."

But another Miami Cuban who lives near the Gonzalez home said she believes blood
is thicker than politics.

"This shouldn't be a political problem," said Tanay Alonso. "I'm Cuban, but I'm
a parent. If something should happen to my husband, I'd want my kids to be with
me."

Cox News Service correspondent Larry Lipman contributed to this story.

jenny_staletovich@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & B&W, 1. MARTA LAVANDIER/Associated Press, Elian Gonzalez
is carried by his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez as he leaves school in Miami on
Wednesday.  2. SHERMAN ZENT/Staff Photographer, Ramon Saul Sanchez addresses
Cubans gathered in front of the INS building in Miami Wednesday to protest
sending Elian Gonzalez back to his father in Cuba.  3. (B&W) DAVID SPENCER/Staff
Photographer, Children and adults join on Wednesday in Miami to protest the
decision to return Elian Gonzalez to his father in Cuba

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              138 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 10, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

EMBARGO MIND-SET SKEWS U.S. POLICY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 126 words


The Palm Beach Post's contention in its Jan. 5 editorial ''Anchor refugee policy
with updated rules'' that our lingering immigration policy is the direct result
of our foreign-embargo policy against Cuba is right on target.

Cuban dictator Fidel Castro would have been gone years ago if there had been
open, capitalistic trade between our two countries. But the State Department and
U.S. politicians have been influenced by voting Cuban-Americans in Miami.

In 1961, the United States reached zero population growth, until Congress
flooded the nation with refugees under the Immigration Act of 1965. A new
president and a new Congress must reject the embargo and revise our immigrant
quotas to a reasonable number.

Paul W. Obey

Delray Beach


LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              139 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 11, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

JUDGE RULES RELATIVES CAN SEEK CUSTODY OF ELIAN

BYLINE: Bill Douthat and Bob Dart, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 847 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A family court judge Monday granted Miami relatives the right to seek temporary
custody of Elian Gonzalez, who faces a Friday deadline to return to Cuba.

Some legal experts called the judge's order meaningless and suggested the
federal government could simply ignore it. But the Miami exile community, which
has turned the 6-year-old boy into an anti-Castro icon and labeled him a miracle
child, greeted it with joyous celebration. As the government scrambled to plot
its next move, politicians from Vice President Al Gore to Sen. Jesse Helms,
R-N.C., turned up the pressure to keep Elian here.

"This is a big victory for the rule of law," attorney Jose Garcia-Pedrosa crowed
after Miami-Dade Circuit Judge Rosa Rodriquez accepted jurisdiction of the
custody lawsuit and ordered Elian to remain in the United States until a March 6
hearing.

Garcia-Pedrosa represents Elian's family members who are fighting a U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service order to return the boy to Cuba by
Friday.

The boy belongs with his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, in Cuba, the INS ruled
last week.

The immigration agency Monday said it was reviewing the family court's ruling.

"We are still hopeful that we can reunite the father and son by Friday, but it's
impossible to predict given these recent developments," said INS spokesman Russ
Bergeron.

How the boy's pick-up would occur "has yet to be determined," Bergeron said. It
appears extremely unlikely that the INS will try to forcibly remove the boy from
his relatives' home in Little Havana, where exiles have talked of erecting a
symbolic "human chain" around the house.

But because of the father's demands that Elian be returned to Cuba, legal
experts doubt his Miami relatives can win a custody battle in court. Elian's
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, is seeking custody, saying Elian would be subject
to physical and psychological suffering in Cuba.

"The father's rights are vastly superior to any of the competing claims being
asserted by the family," said Bernard Perlmutter, director of the University of
Miami's Children and Youth Law Clinic.

Unless it's proved the father abused, neglected or abandoned Elian, custody
cannot be granted to another family member, he said.

"It's going to be very hard for the great-uncle to satisfy that burden of
proof," Perlmutter said.

If custody is granted, the family members would seek political asylum for Elian,
another remedy fraught with pitfalls. Asylum is granted when an immigrant shows
he would be persecuted if returned to his native country.

"Frankly, I'm wondering what kind of asylum claim he could have," said Miami
immigration attorney Michael D. Ray. "He's already a hero . . . in Cuba."

The custody lawsuit is one of several legal and political maneuvers by the Miami
relatives to stall Friday's deadline.

Attorney General Janet Reno, who oversees the INS, is reviewing the decision to
return Elian to Cuba. The implications of Monday's court ruling will be
considered, Reno spokeswoman Carole Florman said.

President Clinton is standing by the INS but said anyone who disagrees has the
right to challenge the decision in court.

"I think the INS tried to do what was right by the child, and I think that they
did the best they could with a difficult and controversial situation," Clinton
told reporters Monday.

On the campaign trail, Al Gore broke ranks with President Clinton.

"I'd like to see the dispute adjudicated in our courts, where traditionally
questions like 'what is best for this child' are decided," the vice president
said.

He said he doubted that the INS had "the experience and the expertise" to make a
custody decision.

Congress was moving on various fronts to keep Elian in Miami. A subpoena issued
to Elian Friday by Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind. - ordering the boy to testify before
a House committee in February - was being reviewed Monday by government lawyers.
Rep. Henry Waxman, D-California, said the subpoena "is unenforceable and
shouldn't have any effect on the proceedings."

Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., is seeking to make the boy a U.S. citizen, embracing a
bill proposed in late December by Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla.

In Little Havana, Cuban exiles cheered the family court ruling outside the
modest home where Elian has been staying since he was discovered Thanksgiving
Day on an inner tube off Fort Lauderdale. His mother, stepfather and nine others
perished during a boat trip from Cuba.

A West Palm Beach immigration attorney who has successfully placed abandoned
Guatemalan children under court supervision said custody is the least
politicized solution for Elian but could spell trouble.

"It could be a double-edged sword," said the attorney, Aileen Naja Josephs. "It
could clearly show that the father had never abused, neglected or abandoned the
child and that it would be in the best interests of the child to be with the
father."

Cuban exile leaders in Miami, who organized protests for three days last week,
said they will accept the judgment of the court.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, C.M. GUERERRO/The Associated Press, Six-year-old Elian
Gonzalez is escorted from school Monday. His relatives hope to stall an order
sending him back to Cuba by Friday

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              140 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 15, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS CELEBRATE IMMIGRATION WIN, BUT SAY INS POLICIES RACIST, UNFAIR

BYLINE: Mike Williams, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


He's on the cover of Time magazine. Presidential candidates have weighed in on
his case. Television cameras have tracked his every move for the past two weeks.

But 6-year-old Cuban rafter Elian Gonzalez isn't the only heart-rending
immigration story in Miami sparking protests and controversy.

Thousands of angry Haitians marched on the Immigration and Naturalization
Service regional office in Miami this week, protesting what they charged was the
unfair treatment of a pregnant Haitian woman separated from her children when a
rickety boat carrying 400 people from the impoverished island was intercepted
off Miami on New Year's Day.

The children were sent back to Haiti with most of the other people on the boat,
while the mother, Yvena Rhinvil, 33, was taken to Miami because she was ill.

Immigration officials announced late Thursday they will allow the children to
join their mother in the U.S. while she awaits an asylum hearing she hopes will
allow her to stay permanently in this country. The children had been staying
with an aunt in Haiti.

"This is great news," Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center, told reporters. "These children should have been with their mother all
along."

Haitians celebrated the news, but the case points out the touchy relations among
South Florida's diverse population of immigrants and refugees.

For years, many Haitians here have charged that Cubans receive preferential
treatment when they reach this country and that the disparity is racially
motivated. Immigration officials firmly deny the charge.

The Haitian protest came just as the national furor over little Elian Gonzalez
reached a peak.

While the case of the Cuban boy, who survived a boat trip from Cuba that left
his mother and nine others dead, sparked a national debate over whether he
should be sent back to his father in Cuba, the episode involving the Haitians
drew little attention outside South Florida.

On Wednesday, thousands of Haitians marched peacefully through Miami's Little
Haiti district. Many held signs saying "Stop Racism," while others carried black
coffins to represent people who have died on the seas or in Haiti after they
were sent back there by U.S. officials.

Rhinvil and two of her children were on a packed, 60-foot boat run by smugglers
who reportedly charged thousands of dollars per person. They tried to reach U.S.
shores during the New Year's holiday, hoping that the celebrations would divert
attention from their attempted landing.

Passengers later told reporters they spent three days at sea under appalling
conditions. Several people died, they said.

U.S. Coast Guard officials stopped the boat and four women who were ill -
including Rhinvil - were brought ashore. The rest were taken back to Haiti,
including Rhinvil's children, Marc Dieubon, 10, and Germanie Dieubon, 8

Coast Guard officials said they didn't realize they had separated Rhinvil from
her children.

While granting Rhinvil's children temporary parole so they can join their
mother, INS officials insisted their policies are not discriminatory and are
based on laws passed by Congress.

"There is no difference whatsoever in INS policies and practices," said INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron. "If there is any disparity at all, it's a product of an
act of Congress called the Cuban Adjustment Act."

That 1966 law, a product of the Cold War, allows Cubans to apply for permanent
immigrant status if their asylum claim is not acted upon within a year and a
day.

Many Haitians in Miami feel Cubans have an easier time getting asylum because
their country is controlled by a communist dictator, while most Haitians are
sent back home because U.S. officials determine they are fleeing the extreme
poverty of a democratic country, not political persecution.

For now, though, Haitians are celebrating what they feel is an all-too-rare
victory in the immigration arena.

"This decision ends a frightening episode and addresses a major wrong that was
done to this mother and her young children," said U.S. Rep. Carrie Meek, D-Fla.,
who led efforts to reunite Rhinvil and her children.


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              141 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 17, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

HYPOCRITES IGNORE HAITIANS' UNFAIR PLIGHT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 191 words


Dan Burton has made Congress an accessory to kidnapping in denying a Cuban
father's right to the leitimate son whom he genuinely wants to have returned.
Ironically, Rep. Burton, R-Ind., is also one of the Republican supporters of the
Draconian 1996 law that gives the Immigration and Naturalization Service sole
jurisdiction over cases such as Elian Gonzalez's, a law he now wants to
circumvent.

It's telling that Rep. Burton and his cronies did not lift a finger to stop the
deportation of the 29 black children whom the INS this month sent back to Haiti,
to conditions far worse than anything in Castro's Cuba. Nor have they intervened
to stop the INS from arresting and deporting thousands of legal immigrants for
minor offenses committed and paid for years before the law was passed.

The one group of immigrants that seems immune from this vicious law are Cuban
exiles in South Florida. We have now watched as they illegally brought a major
American city to a standstill with their anti-Castro vendetta, while
hypocritical lawmakers such as Rep. Burton and Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., looked
on.

George English

Boynton Beach


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, ANDREW PETER BOSCH/2000 AP File Photo, U.S. Coast Guard
personnel remove passengers from a wooden boat packed with 393 Haitians and 18
others that ran aground Jan. 1 in Biscayne Bay. Most of the Haitians, including
29 children, later were returned to Haiti

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              142 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 20, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

ELIAN'S RELATIVES ASK U.S. JUDGE TO BLOCK RETURN

BYLINE: Mike Williams, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 407 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


As expected, the Miami relatives of 6-year-old Cuban rafter Elian Gonzalez took
their fight to keep the boy in this country to federal court Wednesday, asking a
judge to overrule federal immigration officials who want to send him back to his
father in Cuba.

"The purpose of this lawsuit is to attempt to compel the U.S. government to give
Elian Gonzalez his constitutional rights," said Spencer Eig, one of the lawyers
for the boy's Miami relatives.

The lawsuit was filed against U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and top officials
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. No date for a hearing has been
set.

Late Wednesday, Justice Department officials issued a statement saying they will
ask the federal court in Miami to move quickly on the case.

The lawsuit is seen as part of a two-prong strategy by Elian's relatives to keep
the boy from returning to communist Cuba. The other major effort is to win
passage of a resolution in Congress that would give him U.S. citizenship or
permanent residence, which would change his immigration status.

Any such bill, however, would have to be signed by President Clinton, who backs
the INS decision to send the boy back to his father.

The battle over Elian began shortly after he was found clinging to an inner tube
off Fort Lauderdale on Thanksgiving Day. His mother and nine other people
drowned when the small boat they were using to flee Cuba capsized.

The federal lawsuit comes two weeks after INS Commissioner Doris Meissner ruled
Elian must go back to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. That announcement
touched off protests in Miami, as Cuban exiles tangled traffic and sparred with
police, who arrested more than 100 people.

The case was assigned to U.S. District Judge James L. King. In one other
high-profile case related to Cuba, King ruled that the families of several men
shot down when they flew near the island several years ago to drop anti-Castro
leaflets were entitled to damages from the Cuban government.

King got word that he had been assigned the boy's case as he presided over the
criminal trial of Palm Beach County jeweler Jack Hasson in Miami.

An assistant walked up to the judge and quietly handed him a note. King quickly
scanned it, then threw his hands up. "How could I be so lucky," he exclaimed.

Attorneys and spectators had no idea what he was talking about until he turned
to the jury and apologized for the interruption.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Elian Gonzalez (mug

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              143 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 24, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION POLICY A TICKING TIME BOMB

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 177 words


The Haitian community is correct: The United States' immigration policy is
flawed and even unjust. t is based on assumptions and realities that have long
since changed.

The U.S. is no longer the manpower-deficient country it once was. According to
recent projections, America's population will double by the end of the century.
Unrestrained population growth will lead to environmental degradation and urban
congestion.

The embargo against Cuba and the automatic acceptance of Cubans who reach our
shores have combined to encourage a stream of economic refugees as well as those
feeling Fidel Castro's persecution. This policy has also led to the appearance
of racism in U.S. immigration procedures.

It is time to adjust our immigration policy, assess the country's need and
capacity to absorb newcomers and give the Immigration and Naturalization Service
enough resources to protect our borders. We have a responsibility to share our
wealth and promote human rights but not at the expense of our own welfare.

Nason Goldstein

Royal Palm Beach


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              144 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 26, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

ELIAN, GRANDMAS TO REUNITE IN MIAMI

BYLINE: Mike Williams, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1100 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The on-again, off-again reunion of 6-year-old Cuban rafter Elian Gonzalez and
his grandmothers is expected to come about today, as federal immigration
officials ordered the boy's Miami relatives to make him available for a private
meeting at a neutral site.

Late Tuesday, lawyers for the boy's Miami family notified federal officials that
they would bring the boy to a 4 p.m. meeting at the Miami Beach home of Sister
Jeanne O'Laughlin, president of Miami's Barry University and a noted South
Florida advocate for children and immigrants.

"We very much want a meeting with Elian and his grandmothers," said Spencer Eig,
one of the Miami family's attorneys.

Immigration officials insisted the meeting was "only a visit," and the boy would
not be turned over to the grandmothers to take back to Cuba.

The reunion could be the first step toward ending what has become a nasty family
squabble - and growing international issue - over where the boy should live. It
would come two days after an attempted reunion in Miami fell apart in a swirl of
rancor and accusations.

The brittle relations between Elian's Cuban and American families showed again
Tuesday, as his grandmothers - Raquel Rodriguez and Mariela Quintana - spent the
day making tearful appeals to several lawmakers sympathetic to their pleas to
let the boy return to his home in Cuba.

"We have been very humiliated and very offended by that (Miami) family,"
Rodriguez, Elian's maternal grandmother, told reporters. "If they have taken the
boy so many places since he came here - including Disneyland . . . how is it
possible that they couldn't bring the child a few blocks away to see us."

Tears streaming down her face, Rodriguez showed Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee,
D-Texas, a family photo that included every member of her Cuban family, except
Elian.

Elian's Miami relatives sent two family members jetting to Washington late
Tuesday for a news conference and meetings with their congressional supporters.

President Clinton also weighed in on the case Tuesday, asking Congress to think
about "what is right for the child" before acting on several bills that have
been introduced to give Elian U.S. citizenship.

Asked whether he would veto such a bill, Clinton said, "I have not decided what
to do and I would not rule that out."

Focus on Miami again


But the main focus in the topsy-turvy case today will likely again be Miami, as
the grandmothers are expected to finally have their long-awaited reunion with
their grandson.

The letter ordering the meeting came from Executive Associate Immigration and
Naturalization Commissioner Michael Pearson, who said the Miami family must make
the boy available as a condition of Elian's current immigration status.

While he has lived with his Miami relatives since November, Elian is legally
under the custody of federal officials, who have granted him a status called
"temporary parole."

"He is legally under the control of the attorney general, who chose to lodge him
with the family instead of with Catholic Relief Services or some other group,"
said University of Miami law Professor David Abraham, an expert on immigration
issues. "They have no legal custody. It's as if they were the keepers of a hotel
where he is being lodged, only now the hotel keepers are trying to say what can
and can't be done with the boy."

O'Laughlin was asked by U.S. Attorney Janet Reno to provide a neutral location
for the reunion. Her gated home on Miami Beach will allow police to keep the
media and any demonstrators at a distance.

O'Laughlin, 70, whose Barry University owns public radio and TV stations
WXEL-Channel 42 and WXEL-FM 90.7 in Boynton Beach, has intervened in several
past immigration cases, helping to find housing for groups of immigrants with no
place to go.

She also has no known ties to the National Council of Churches, a Protestant
umbrella group that brought the grandmothers from Cuba and has attempted to act
as a go-between for the boy's return to Cuba.

Will healing begin?


Cuban exiles have been highly critical of the group, saying they have ignored
past pleas to help in immigration cases.

Exiles turned out en masse Monday night when the grandmothers flew to Miami and
were expected to meet with Elian at the Little Havana home of his Miami
relatives. Exile leaders handed out flowers and exhorted the crowd to be on its
best behavior, but televised images of the scene frightened the grandmothers,
who remained at the Tamiami Airport and refused to visit the house.

Elian's relatives - who insisted the meeting could take place only at their home
- were on their way to the airport to negotiate further when the women departed
for Washington.

Exile leaders told the media they believed they saw an official from the Cuban
government boarding the plane with the women, and cited that as further proof
that the grandmothers are being controlled by Cuban President Fidel Castro.

The grandmothers have said the Miami family is controlled by the "Miami Mafia"
of exile extremists.

It remained to be seen whether the reunion would help heal the family's sharp
divisions.

The grandmothers have said they want the boy to go back with them to Cuba, but
the Miami family insists they won't give him up until a judge has ruled in a
federal lawsuit they have filed to block an INS decision to send Elian back to
Cuba.

That lawsuit may move forward this week, as federal officials are expected to
file a response that might clear the way for a hearing.

Senate to debate next week


Observers say the Miami family has been stalling, hoping that Congress would
grant the boy citizenship, moving the case into the realm of family court, where
custody issues are decided.

The grandmothers gave a letter to President Clinton to Rep. Jackson Lee Tuesday,
asking her to deliver it for them.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., a supporter of the Senate bill, told
reporters Tuesday the Senate will probably debate the bill early next week,
rather than today as he earlier predicted.

"What we're trying to do is find the best way to have an impartial, nonpolitical
decision made for the young boy," Lott said, blaming the delay on the snowstorm
and the large number of senators still out of town.

Still, it seemed clear the congressional debate over the issue will be heated.

"We must not place the burdens of the adversity between the United States and
Cuba on the shoulders of Elian Gonzalez," Jackson Lee said.

* Eunice Moscoso of The Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau contributed to this
story.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, Jeanne O'Laughlin (mug

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              145 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 11, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECRET EVIDENCE AGAINST IMMIGRANTS QUESTIONED

BYLINE: Sue Schultz, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department has used secret evidence against at least 12 immigrants,
including five who are being held without knowledge of their crimes, an FBI
official told Congress on Thursday.

"The ability to use classified information in this manner is vitally important
to the protection of our national security," Larry Parkinson, general counsel
for the FBI, told the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigrations and claims.

The Justice Department often does not inform immigrants of the charges filed
against them or the sources of the charges in order to protect national security
and the investigations, Parkinson said.

Use of classified information is rare, but it has been used about 30 times in
300,000 immigration cases in the past two years, he said.

In these cases the FBI, or another law enforcement agency, shares the
information with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. It is then subject
to review by senior Justice Department officials to evaluate whether it should
be classified. If the information is considered classified, the INS then
presents it to an immigration judge to determine the importance of the case.

Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Calif., brandishing a bound volume of the U.S.
Constitution, testified that the use of secret evidence was unconstitutional.
Campbell read aloud the Fifth Amendment, which states that no person shall be
deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law.

"It says no person, not no citizen," Campbell said. "The fight against terrorism
need not involve compromise of our most cherished constitutional rights."

House Minority Whip David Bonior, D-Mich., joined Campbell in urging the panel
to consider a bill that would repeal the use of secret evidence as grounds for
removal from the United States.

It would prohibit the government from using classified evidence against illegal
immigrants trying to avoid deportation and prohibit the government from using
secret evidence to deny immigration benefits, including asylum, permanent
residence and United States citizenship.

Law enforcement agencies have used secret evidence to detain immigrants for more
than a dozen years, but in 1996 the law was expanded to give the INS the right
to arrest, detain and deport noncitizens on the basis of secret evidence.

In the past eight years, three federal judges have ruled that the use of secret
evidence violates the right to due process.

Hany Kiareldeen, a Palestinian immigrant living in New Jersey who was once
considered a serious threat to national security by the INS, sat in the audience
observing the panel.

Kiareldeen was detained by the INS for 19 months before a New Jersey federal
court ordered his release last October. He was not told why he was held, or
given any information on who had accused him.

Later he was given an unclassified summary of the secret evidence accusing him
of associating with the terrorist conspirators who bombed the World Trade Center
in 1993. The accusations were brought by his ex-wife during a custody battle
over their daughter.

"I am not very optimistic that this (repeal) law will pass," Kiareldeen said.

Campbell said he was considering offering a narrower bill that would allow the
INS to detain an immigrant for only 30 days on the basis of secret evidence.


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              146 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 18, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS IS URGED TO DEPORT TORTURERS

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States should deport people responsible for committing torture in
their home countries, a congressional panel was told Thursday.

Currently, only aliens suspected of participating in genocide may be excluded or
deported.

Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, urged the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration to adopt his bill adding torture as a reason for excluding or
deporting aliens. A similar bill passed the Senate last fall.

"Brutal criminals who have gone on violent rampages in Haiti, Yugoslavia and
Rwanda have been able to gain entry to the United States through the same doors
that we have opened to deserving refugees," Foley said. "We need to slam the
door shut on these thugs and rid our country of those who have already managed
to make their way here."

An estimated 7,000 human rights abusers may live in the United States, Foley
said.

He became interested in the problem after learning that Carl Dorelien, a former
Haitian paramilitary leader, lives in Port St. Lucie and won a $ 3.2 million
lottery prize in 1997.

Foley's bill also would shift responsibility for investigating human rights
abusers within the Justice Department from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to the Office of Special Investigations, an agency that hunts down
former Nazis living in the United States.

The Justice Department supports broadening the reasons for which human rights
abusers may be deported, but opposes shifting the job to the Office of Special
Investigations.

James Costello, an associate deputy attorney general, told the panel that INS
has extensive experience in monitoring modern human rights abuses.

But Richard Krieger, president of International Educational Missions Inc., based
in Boynton Beach, told the panel that INS has done a poor job of removing human
rights abusers.

"What of Rwandan war criminals, Cambodian, Sudanese, Somalian, Congolese,
Indonesian or Ethiopian?" Krieger asked. "What of Haitian, Chilean, or
Argentinean perpetrators of torture and crimes against humanity? Why have any of
them been allowed to enter the United States and why have they been allowed to
stay?"

* larryl@coxnews.com


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              147 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 23, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

JUDGES MADE ELIAN, 6, THE ADULT THAT HE IS NOT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 488 words


Until last week, no one thought Elian Gonzalez could make grown-up choices.
Crowds gathered at his great-uncle's house to keep the boy out of Fidel Castro's
claws, not because a 6-year-old decided he prefers Little Havana to Cardenas,
Cuba.

Even 6-year-old kings need regents to make decisions for them. Three judges of
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta think otherwise. They
respectfully call Elian "Plaintiff" (with a capital P) in "his" asylum case, "by
and through Lazaro Gonzalez, as next friend, or, alternatively, as temporary
legal guardian." Elian's great-uncle Lazaro filed the case Dec. 10. A
6-year-old, who can't go anywhere alone, has sued to live where he wants to
live. His father is not a party to the case. For the judges, dad is a nonperson.

The three judges know the picture is absurd, so they explain: "To some people,
the idea that a 6-year-old child may file for asylum in the United States,
contrary to the express wishes of his parents, may seem a strange or even
foolish policy. But this Court does not make immigration policy, and we cannot
review the wisdom of statutes duly enacted by Congress."

The judges - appointees of Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Bill Clinton - perform
that hand-washing act in a footnote. In the text, they say that, by not
specifically excluding asylum claims by 6-year-olds, Congress intended that they
be taken seriously. A Russian 12-year-old won such a claim in 1985 and has been
campaigning for the Miami relatives. In that case, however, the court said 12
was "near the lower end" of the age range for making that claim over parental
objections.

The appeals court judges complain that the government never asked Elian what he
wants. They want to know. It plainly has been hard for immigration officials to
talk freely with the boy. Unless they trust a homemade videotape of Elian,
finding out what he wants takes a bit of mind-reading. That may work for Sister
Jeanne O'Laughlin, but it is not recommended for government employees who may
have to testify in court.

As a 6-year-old, Elian Gonzalez has a right to life, food, clothing and care.
Period. There's competent evidence that his father, Juan Miguel, can provide
that. A child has no other rights. Before ignoring the father, courts should
demand proof that the parent somehow endangers the boy and, only then, accept a
"next friend" to speak for him.

Elian's threat is not his father. It's Castro. If the boy gets asylum on that
basis, what must America do for the Chinese children? Asylum is not a right; it
can be granted or withheld. The claimant must have reason to expect persecution.

With Attorney General Janet Reno, Vice President Gore and Texas Gov. George W.
Bush having helped to make Elian a world figure, Castro will make the boy a
major general if he goes home. Dictators can be as goofy as a legal theory that
treats a 6-year-old as captain of his fate.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              148 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 16, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

INS SPEEDS RESIDENCY FOR DYING WOMAN

BYLINE: Noah Bierman, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


A dying Haitian woman's desperate wish to see her children before she dies may
be granted through the extraordinary measures of an unexpected source: the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The INS bypassed its own bureaucracy Monday to grant Marie Mercius permanent
residency and agreed to temporarily admit the three children she left behind
seven years ago when she fled Haiti on a boat. Mercius, in Bethesda Memorial
Hospital with liver cancer, says doctors have told her she will die soon.

Haitian community activist Daniella Henry, who helped Mercius navigate the
system, is scrambling to raise money and coordinate plans to bring the children
here this weekend or early next week. And she's urging Mercius to fight the pain
and keep living.

"Before I die, I will see them," Mercius, of West Palm Beach, said through an
interpreter Monday.

As she struggled through an interview from her hospital bed, the 46-year-old
woman clenched her teeth in pain. She lifted her teal hospital gown to show a
softball size tumor that emerged from a bloated stomach.

INS official Michael Shaul said the agency was happy to help, but emphasized
that officials acted within the law when they bumped up her application.
Haitians and other immigrant groups claim INS acts inconsistently, especially in
contrast with its treatment of Cuban immigrants.

Michael Bander, a prominent immigration attorney in Miami, called it "damn
unusual" when told about INS' action.

"I think they're much more sensitive than they have been in the past," Bander
said.

Mercius left the town of Arcahaie, in Haiti, seven years ago. She said she was a
cook for former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's children and was under attack
from the Tonton Macoutes, the Haitian militia.

She left four children to be raised by their grandparents: Jacques Sully, now
19; Yvelor Sully, 15; Rock Michel Sully, 13 and Pierre Sully 11. The children's
father died in a car accident in 1992.

Rock made it to the United States four years ago and obtained residency Monday
along with his mother. Mercius talks to the others regularly, she says. She
cried as she explained that Jacques told her that he wants to be a doctor.

Mercius has felt pain in her liver since arriving in Florida. More than two
years ago, doctors prescribed chemotherapy, she said.

Henry, executive director of the Haitian American Community Center, said
Mercius' initial asylum application was never reviewed by INS. That left her
eligible for the 1998 Haitian Refuge Immigration Fairness Act. The act grants
residency to thousands of Haitians who arrived in the U.S. before 1996 and fit
certain categories.

But since the INS began taking applications in June, more than 31,000 Haitians
have applied. The backlog could mean many will wait six to 18 months or longer
to be reviewed, Shaul said.

That's where Henry came in. She had helped Mercius, a former Sizzler restaurant
cook, fill out the forms in November.

Last Monday, Mercius came to Henry swollen and sick. Henry called her INS
contacts. "I don't do that often, but when a case comes like this you have to
have some heart," she said.

The INS faxed new paperwork to Henry by Wednesday so Mercius could answer
questions. Officials set up a fingerprinting appointment necessary for criminal
clearance - which normally takes months - the same day.

Monday, after granting her and Rock residency, INS officials sent papers for the
other children to Haiti by overnight mail.

"Hang in there. Hang in there. You're getting the papers," Henry told Mercius
Monday.

If the children make it before Mercius dies, they'll apply for permanent
residency, Henry said, noting they would not be eligible unless their mother is
alive. Henry, meanwhile, is raising money for plane tickets and application
fees.

Henry can be reached at 272-2520.

Staff writer Christine Evans contributed to this story.

noah_bierman@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, DAVID SPENCER/Staff Photographer, Marie Mercius is battling
liver cancer at Bethesda Memorial Hospital. With prodding from local activists,
immigration officials have rushed Mercius' application for permanent residency
and that of one of her sons. The INS also is allowing her other children to
visit from Haiti.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              149 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 13, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAW TEARS FAMILY APART, WEST PALM MAN SAYS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


When Annelise Vidrine, a native of Colombia, sought political asylum in the
United States, immigration officials called her in for "a conference," then
handcuffed her.

Now, the mother of a 6-year-old daughter born in the United States is
celebrating her 10th wedding anniversary at the Krome Detention Center, awaiting
deportation.

Her crime? She served 27 months in federal prison in the 1980s after crossing
state lines to pick up drug money.

Her husband, John Vidrine, is writing letters to overturn a 1996 law that allows
the government to detain and deport anyone convicted of a crime - even if they
have lived crime-free for years.

"Only you have the power to unite us," Vidrine wrote to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service in September, three days after his wife was taken into
custody. "I beg you to use that power."

The INS turned down his request last month, saying the "sympathetic factors"
were outweighed by Annelise Vidrine's 1987 guilty plea for conspiracy to possess
and distribute cocaine.

Vidrine said his wife could be deported any day, splitting the family and
breaking their daughter's heart.

"What they are doing is just mean," said Vidrine, 41, who said he's a
ninth-generation American.

But the INS said his wife's deportation is warranted because she entered the
country illegally and because she was convicted of a law that the INS considers
an aggravated felony.

Vidrine said his wife made a stupid, but serious, mistake as a 19-year-old when
she agreed to accompany a girlfriend to Tennessee to pick up money from a drug
deal.

She served 27 months. Soon after the Vidrines married in 1989, she was ordered
deported because of the drug conviction. She left voluntarily and the couple
lived in Colombia for three years.

Colombia proved too violent, so they decided to return to the United States,
John Vidrine said.

Denied a visa, Annelise sneaked into the United States at the Mexican border.
Once in West Palm Beach, she applied for political asylum because of the dangers
in Colombia but was denied.

While waiting, Annelise, 33, opened a nail salon in West Palm Beach and was a
different person from the "stupid, 19-year-old kid," her husband said.

John Vidrine said INS officials told Annelise they were investigating her asylum
claim and asked her to come to the INS district office in Miami. She went on
Sept. 10, was handcuffed and taken to Krome, west of Miami.

John Vidrine said he has written to 90 members of Congress, appealing to
overturn the 1996 law.

"This law has destroyed my family," Vidrine said.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Special to The Palm Beach Post, John Vidrine with his wife,
Annelise, and daughter, Nicole, have fun with Minnie at Disney World.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              150 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 5, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

INS: POLITICAL SCAPEGOAT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 420 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service never will be warmly regarded on
either side of the U.S. border. The INS is the gatekeeper to freedom, and with
that assignment often comes the unpopular and unpleasant work of turning away
desperate people.

As an enforcement agency, the INS must carry out the laws Congress makes. At the
same time, the INS is part of the Justice Department and must carry out the
orders of the attorney general, who is appointed by the president and sits on
his Cabinet. The president sets foreign policy, which is closely bound to
immigration policy. The INS routinely finds itself torn between all three
branches of government. It is an agency with many masters and even more critics.
The extraordinary Elian Gonzalez case increased the numbers of both.

Some members of Congress have accused the INS of abusing its power in snatching
Elian from his relatives' Miami home and then denying him an asylum hearing. But
the laws that Congress wrote are clear: The INS had legal custody of the boy
from the day he set foot on American soil and lost it only for a brief period in
April when the family obtained a temporary order in federal appeals court that
he remain here. At all other times, Elian was entirely subject to the
jurisdiction of the immigration agency.

Each year, the INS sends back to their homelands about 5,000 unaccompanied
minors who arrived illegally. It would have done so with Elian had not political
forces intervened. Zealots and demagogues rallied to inflame the United States'
41-year cold war with Cuba and use a 6-year-old as their battle cry. It was left
to the INS to do the thankless dirty work.

A panel of federal judges ultimately upheld the agency's right to determine
Elian's fate, and the Supreme Court refused to intervene. Suggestions that the
case should have been decided in family court ignore the legal reality that no
state court can nullify the decision of any federal agency. The INS had the
power to do what it did from the first day.

Attorney General Janet Reno said last week she will review the Elian case to
determine whether new procedures should be enacted for dealing with
unaccompanied minors. Whatever changes are made, the INS will be assigned to
enforce them. People who don't like the policy will continue to criticize those
who are dispatched to the front lines to try to enforce it. Overwhelmed by the
rising tide of immigrants and beleaguered by politics, the INS will continue to
be the opportunists' easiest mark.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              151 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 28, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

DEMOCRATS URGE EASING IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With an eye on the potentially crucial Hispanic vote in this fall's elections,
Democratic leaders Thursday called for passage of a bill to ease immigration
restrictions.

At a Capitol news conference, the Democrats said they expect the legislation to
be a partisan issue, criticizing Republican lawmakers and presidential candidate
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas for opposing the measure they say is a top priority
in the Latino community.

The bill would make three key changes to the 1997 immigration law by:

- Changing the cutoff date for undocumented immigrants to qualify for permanent
residency status. The current cutoff is for those who arrived before 1972; the
bill would change that to 1986.

- Allowing refugees from Haiti, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras the same
rights as Cuban and Nicaraguan refugees to apply for permanent residency status.

- Restoring a provision to allow immigrants living with their families in the
United States to remain in the country while awaiting a decision on their
residency status.

Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., said he would try to attach his proposal to a variety
of bills moving through the Senate this fall.

President Clinton urged passage of the bill as part of pending legislation to
expand the H-1B temporary worker program. Vice President Al Gore also sent a
letter supporting the bill.

"People who have been living for many years in the United States and have
developed strong ties to their communities deserve the opportunity to normalize
their immigration status," Clinton said.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, has criticized efforts to expand the immigration law.
Smith called the bill an amnesty measure that would allow 2 million illegal
immigrants to remain in the United States.

"Amnesty sends a cruel message: Get to the U.S. at any cost and sooner or later
your actions will be rewarded - a slap in the face to all those who waited their
turn to enter legally," Smith said.

Reid said Bush has tried to appeal to Hispanic voters, even speaking Spanish on
the campaign trail, but Republican congressional leaders have blocked efforts to
bring the bill to a floor vote.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., tried to cool the partisan rhetoric, saying he was
confident the bill would receive bipartisan support because "it's a simple
matter or economic and social justice."

larryl@coxnews.com


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              152 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 10, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

TIME FOR THE EVIDENCE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 388 words


A former University of South Florida professor who has been jailed more than
three years based on secret evidence finally may get to face his government
accusers today, and the rest of us finally may get to find out whether those
accusers are more of a national security threat than they claim he is.

Not even Mazen Najjar's attorney has seen the evidence against the 43-year-old
Palestinian. At today's hearing, ordered by U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard
in Miami, investigators should have to reveal why they want to keep Mr. Najjar
behind bars. He was labeled a terrorist based on evidence investigators claim
they can't release. As a result, he has been jailed since an immigration judge,
R. Kevin McHugh, who saw the evidence in 1997, ordered him held without bail.
Judge McHugh also will preside over today's hearing.

By that sorry standard of due process, the father of three daughters who are
U.S. citizens could be a grandfather before he gets justice. Mr. Najjar came to
the United States in 1981 as a student, but he exceeded his student permit. He
was to be deported in May 1997 before he was jailed. Then the Board of
Immigration Appeals ruled in September 1998 that secret evidence is allowed in
national security cases.

This case shows why that must change. The public has been shown no proof that
Mr. Najjar was anything other than a researcher for an Islamic think tank
affiliated with USF. If investigators have a beef with Mr. Najjar, where is it?

"The federal court made it very clear that the evidence has to show more than a
mere 'association,' (with terrorists)," said Martin Stewart, one of Mr. Najjar's
attorneys. Judge Lenard agreed, ruling last month that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had violated Mr. Najjar's constitutional rights and
ordered the detention review. That development is due in part to Amnesty
International, which has urged the Justice Department to review such cases and
to fix policies that allow secret evidence to be used in immigration matters.

Immigration rules, however, do not supersede the Constitution. If not his
freedom, Mr. Najjar at least should get a bond hearing that doesn't violate the
basic right to due process. If anything less happens, Americans would have
reason to wonder how the government defines "national security."


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              153 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

JAMAICAN STOWAWAYS APPREHENDED

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT and EDIE GROSS

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Five Jamaican stowaways at sea for four days jumped from a barge passing through
the Lake Worth Inlet Sunday.

The five, who carried plastic garbage bags filled with clothing, began swimming
in the swift current to the north bank of the inlet when they were spotted by a
harbor pilot helping to guide the tugboat pulling the barge, said Coast Guard
Petty Officer Jose Perez.

Two stowaways were plucked from the water by Coast Guard and Florida Marine
Patrol boats and three others were apprehended on shore, Perez said.

The stowaways were turned over to U.S. Border Patrol agents at the Port of Palm
Beach and were scheduled to be transported to a detention center in Miami
operated by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The tugboat and barge - the T.J. Sheridan and the Mary J. Sheridan - left
Kingston, Jamaica on July 10 headed for the Port of Palm Beach, said the tugboat
captain, who would not give his name. The Jamaican Coast Guard had inspected the
barge for stowaways before it left and escorted the ship 5 miles out to sea, the
captain said. But just after the escort pulled away, crew members saw a
motorboat nearby. They returned to port to have the barge inspected again.

Six stowaways were removed and the barge was escorted 15 miles offshore, the
captain said.

"Somewhere through the evening, in the dark, another boat must have come
alongside the barge out at sea and put more stowaways on," the captain said.

Crew members did not notice the five new stowaways until they started jumping
overboard as the 300-foot barge came into port, the captain said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer, Three Jamaican men wait in
custody at the Port of Palm Beach Border Patrol offices Sunday.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              154 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 19, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 191 words


WEST PALM BEACH - Circuit Judge Edward Garrison on Friday set bail at $ 10,000
for Jose Santos, a 19-year-old illegal immigrant charged with sale of cocaine.
The 4th District Court of Appeal ordered an immediate review of Santos' case
this week after Garrison revoked Santos' $ 1,000 bond April 11 after learning he
was in the country illegally. Usual bail for a non-resident of Palm Beach County
charged with a similar crime is $ 3,000-$ 5,000 but Garrison said he set a
higher bail for Santos because he was concerned that Santos, a native of
Guatemala, might be a flight risk. Santos, a migrant farm worker, has no prior
felony convictions and had been out of jail on the $ 1,000 bond since March 9
when he returned to court for an arraignment April 11, only to have Garrison
order him back to jail.

WASHINGTON - The Senate Judiciary Committee has unanimously recommended the
confirmation of Palm Beach County lawyer Donald M. Middlebrooks to be U.S.
District Court judge for the Southern District of Florida. The committee's
action came late Thursday after two earlier attempts were postponed because the
committee lacked a quorum.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              155 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 23, 1997, Friday, WEST EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 166 words


WEST PALM BEACH - U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested 15 illegal aliens Thursday
morning at a house where they were staying until they could find work. The
aliens, 12 Mexicans and three Guatemalans, paid $ 500 each to a smuggler known
as "Mora" to bring them to a "safe house," at 706 46th St., said agent-in-charge
Art Bullock. The men came from Chandler Heights in Arizona, which is near the
U.S. border, Bullock said. The aliens were sent Thursday afternoon to a
detention center in Dade County and will be deported by Saturday, Bullock said.
Border Patrol agents are searching for the smuggler.

Raymond Soria, of 4823 23rd Road, West Palm Beach, was charged Thursday with
kidnapping, aggravated assault and sexual battery, a Palm Beach County sheriff's
report showed. Soria, 31, is charged with attacking a 33-year-old woman behind
The Lagoon, a bar at 1661 Congress Ave., West Palm Beach, in April, the report
said. Soria was being held without bail at the Palm Beach County Jail.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              156 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 5, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

THREE STOWAWAYS FOUND DEAD

BYLINE: David Abel and Joe Brogan

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Three of 10 stowaways crammed inside a sealed freight container were found dead
Tuesday afternoon at the Port of Palm Beach on a cargo ship from the Dominican
Republic, U.S. Border Patrol officials said.

The three likely died from heat exposure and the other seven were in serious to
fair condition, said Riviera Beach police Detective Pat Galligan. All the
victims are male between the ages of 20 and 35 years. One was Cuban and the rest
Dominican, he said.

The ship's captain heard the 10 stowaways banging the container's walls at 2
p.m., about an hour before the 65-foot Pampero docked at the port, Galligan
said.

The ship, owned by Tropical Shipping and Construction Company Ltd. and based at
the Port of Palm Beach, left Puerto Plata, on the northern coast of the
Dominican Republic, at 8:48 p.m. on Sunday.

The men entered a steel container 20 feet long and 10 feet high, filled with
blazers and jackets, by cutting a small hole on the bottom, Galligan said. But
their air passage and escape was blocked when the container was placed atop
another.

The men were found packed together in a 64-square-foot area, said Darrel
Donatto, a division chief of Riviera Beach Fire-Rescue.

Meat, bread, water jugs and cutting tools were found with the men. But officials
said there was no apparent attempt to escape.

In 1991, six Dominicans died in a ship's clothing container after enduring days
of 100-degree heat.

The seven surviving stowaways Tuesday were taken to Columbia Hospital, Good
Samaritan Medical Center and St. Mary's Medical Center in West Palm Beach.

They will be interviewed by immigration officials and will be returned to the
Dominican Republic when fit to travel, Galligan said.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              157 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 17, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

ILLEGALS HAVE JOBS, HOMES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 44 words


 Illegal immigrants who have been here for a long time should be allowed to
become U.S. citizens. Many of these people have jobs and homes, and I don't
think it's right to just kick them out. So let them stay and become U.S.
citizens.
   Angela Fontenez, 13

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Students Speak Out

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              158 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 14, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

INTERNATIONAL TREATY MAY DELAY TRIAL

BYLINE: Christine Stapleton, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The trial of Sergio Soto, a 21-year-old illegal alien from Mexico charged with
the 1995 murder of a missionary, should be delayed because detectives violated
Soto's rights under a 1963 international treaty, Mexican officials argued on
Friday.

Circuit Judge John Phillips refused to delay the trial, scheduled for Monday.

Soto could face the electric chair for his role in the 1995 murder of Rafael
Costa.

But Luis Ortiz-Monasterio, the Consul General of Mexico in Florida, and a team
of attorneys who argued for the delay said Soto's case could set the legal
precedent that requires police to tell any arrested foreigner of their right to
contact their consulate.

''Every criminal defense attorney representing noncitizens needs to be concerned
about this,'' said Al Zucaro, West Palm Beach city commissioner and immigration
attorney.

Zucaro said he had never heard of the provisions of the Vienna Convention of
1963 before Soto's case.

However, the rights provided in the treaty could be especially crucial in South
Florida, home to illegal aliens from many of the nations that signed the treaty,
Zucaro said.

''They're never informed,'' Zucaro said. ''It's just not a practice of police.''

Soto was one of four men who prosecutors say attacked Costa, a 21-year-old Bible
student and missionary, stealing Costa's car and shooting him four times before
dumping his body along U.S. 441, according to court records.

Officials at the Mexican consulate learned of Soto's case shortly after his
arrest on Nov. 10, 1995. But they said they had been told that Soto would
probably accept a plea bargain.

Last week Soto's mother called the consulate and told them that her son's trial
was scheduled to begin on Monday and prosecutors were seeking the death penalty.

In court papers filed Thursday, Monasterio argued that Soto's rights had been
violated because ''Soto was never informed immediately after his arrest that he
had a right to speak to consular officers.''

The consulate advises any Mexican national who has been arrested ''not to talk''
without first talking to a lawyer, Monasterio wrote. Soto gave a taped statement
to detectives about his involvement in the murder shortly after his arrest.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              159 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 28, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

MACK BILL WRONG ANSWER TO ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 156 words


I wonder how many Floridians know that our own Republican Sen. Connie Mack last
year attached an illegal-alien amnesty bill as an amendment to the District of
Columbia appropriations bill.

In 1990, Congress had approved "temporary protected status" for undocumented
immigrants from Central America because of the civil wars taking place in the
region.

Now, in spite of the fact that the wars are long over and democracy is breaking
out all over Central America, advocates for cheap labor want a permanent
amnesty. Temporary obviously means something entirely different to the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce than it does in the rest of the English-speaking world.

And Floridians also know the definition of a lie - which is what the Mack
amnesty would do to the promise Congress made when it said that Central American
illegal aliens would be required to return home when conditions improved there.

Tom Tomlinson

Palm City


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Connie Mack (mug)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              160 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  May 30, 1998, Saturday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 216 words


WEST PALM BEACH - A fifth person has been arrested in connection with a
smuggling operation that brought 14 illegal aliens to Palm Beach from Ecuador on
May 12, court records show. Richard Mulligan, 41, of Yonkers, N.Y., was charged
Thursday with alien smuggling. According to a U.S. Border Patrol report,
Mulligan helped guide the Ecuadorians to the Dominican Republic, where they
waited for passage to the Bahamas before taking a boat to Palm Beach. Some of
the immigrants also said they paid Mulligan a fee of $ 5,000 to $ 7,500 to come
to the United States, the report says. Mulligan's wife, Yvonne, and three Miami
men have been indicted of 42 smuggling counts.

DELRAY BEACH - Three Delray Beach men were arrested Friday in connection with an
armed robbery of the Little Caesar's Restaurant at 14530 S. Military Trail,
police said. Charged with armed robbery and grand theft were Jean Cadestin, 21,
and Jean Denis, 20, both of 13 S.W. 14th Ave., and Gregory Johnson of 138 N.W.
Fifth Ave. Johnson entered the restaurant around 10 a.m. with an automatic
handgun and robbed the manager of $ 300, with Denis acting as lookout, police
said. They fled in a car driven by Cadestin, police said. Officers found the men
with help from witnesses and recovered most of the money, police said.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              161 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 30, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 397 words


WEST PALM BEACH - An attorney for Mayor Nancy Graham told Circuit Judge Edward
Fine on Friday that he should throw out a lawsuit challenging her veto power
because it is ''identical'' to a suit decided last month by another circuit
judge. In that case, now pending in the 4th District Court of Appeal, Judge
Frederick Hazouri ruled that the mayor can veto a contract under the city
charter. But attorneys for the city commission, which sued the mayor, argued the
suits are different and have asked Fine to define the scope of the mayor's veto
power.

WEST PALM BEACH - A fifth person has been arrested in connection with a
smuggling operation that brought 14 illegal aliens to Palm Beach from Ecuador on
May 12, court records show. Richard Mulligan, 41, of Yonkers, N.Y., was charged
Thursday with alien smuggling. According to a U.S. Border Patrol report,
Mulligan helped guide the Ecuadorians to the Dominican Republic, where they
waited for passage to the Bahamas before taking a boat to Palm Beach. Some of
the immigrants also said they paid Mulligan a fee of $ 5,000 to $ 7,500 to come
to the United States, the report says. Mulligan's wife, Yvonne, and three Miami
men have been indicted of 42 smuggling counts.

WEST PALM BEACH - Circuit Judge Fred Hazouri has recused himself from the legal
battle of Stephen Fagan's Bentley and Honda. Florida Highway Patrol
investigators investigating Fagan for possible driver license and automobile
title fraud seized the cars this month. Fagan, the Palm Beach socialite facing
kidnapping charges in Massachusetts and a variety of fraud questions at home,
had been trying to sell his 1997 Bentley. Hazouri removed himself from the case
citing work he had done with Fagan's attorney, David Roth. A new judge has not
been assigned to the case.

WEST PALM BEACH - City Commissioner Jeff Koons lost his waterfront home through
foreclosure Thursday. The 5,900-square-foot house, at 6601 S. Flagler Drive, was
sold to First Union National Bank for $ 675,100, according to the Palm Beach
County clerk's office. Koons also owes the Palm Beach County Tax Collector $
22,208 for 1997 property taxes that were due April 1 and had not been paid by
Friday. Koons and his ex-wife, Mary Louise, paid $ 475,000 for the house in
1982, but owed First Union $ 885,021 - more than its $ 811,035 assessed value.
The Koons divorced last November.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              162 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 16, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN BOAT SURVIVOR JAILED AS AGENTS SEEK SMUGGLER'S ID

BYLINE: Mary Lou Pickel, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 382 words


A former Haitian soldier who survived the March 6 Haitian boat disaster off the
coast of Palm Beach has been jailed on charges of being in the country
illegally, a Border Patrol spokesman said Monday.

Yvon Pierre-Louis, a former sergeant in the Haitian Army, is being held at the
Palm Beach County Jail on the charge, a misdemeanor for first-time offenders
punishable by up to six months in jail. Border Patrol officials conducted a
nationwide fingerprint check on Pierre-Louis and have no record of him ever
being in the United States, Border Patrol spokesman Art Bullock said.

Louis was treated at Good Samaritan Medical Center before going to jail
Thursday.

Louis' cousin, Monique Louis of Lake Worth, went to the Haitian American
Community Council on Monday to seek help in getting Louis released.

But Bullock said the agency plans to keep him there for questioning and has
started proceedings to have Pierre-Louis deported.

''I think he knows who they are (the smugglers) and a lot more than he wants to
tell us right now,'' Bullock said. If Louis is uncooperative, ultimately ''he'll
have to go before a grand jury and tell what he knows.''

Senior patrol agent Brian Ball of the Border Patrol said his office had faxed
information, including pictures, to officials in the Bahamas who are trying to
identify the smugglers: ''The Bahamians may be trying to identify someone
today.''

The other survivors, who gave their names as Carmel Auguste and Peter Pierre,
are being held at Krome Detention Center.

Peter Pierre's real name is Wilner Casseus, and he made up the story about the
two boats, his brother said last week.

Meanwhile, a relative of 33-year-old Immacula Fleurantin identified her body as
one of two recovered from the same March 6 tragedy.

Fleurantin, of Jacmel, Haiti, was among those presumed dead after at least one
boat ferrying Haitian immigrants from the Bahamas capsized about 26 miles east
of Palm Beach. Despite conflicting accounts, U.S. Coast Guard officials said
they believe two boats run by smugglers sank, possibly after a fire.

Also Monday, Edner Doirin, whose wife Michaelle Diejuste was another of the
drowning victims, said he tried - and failed - to get a refund of the $ 2,500
his wife paid to be smuggled into this country.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Pierre-Louis (mug

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              163 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 15, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

DEADLY BORDER CROSSING

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 249 words


On June 2, agents of the U.S. Border Patrol picked up a drifter named Angel
Maturino Resendez and returned him to Mexico. That failure to control the
country's borders may have led to the murders of two Texas women.

By that time, the FBI considered Resendez a suspect in other murders. But the
Border Patrol apparently didn't know that. So Resendez, who went back and forth
between Mexico and the U.S. for more than two decades - always returning here
not long after he was returned to his home country - was free to roam.

Between June 2 and his arrest Tuesday, law-enforcement officials believe,
Resendez killed the two women. He is suspected in the deaths of at least seven
other people, from Texas to Kentucky. Authorities think the real total is much
higher.

Almost everyone who deals with the issue knows that the U.S. could control
illegal immigration to a much greater degree by spending more money. For various
reasons, including pressure from employers who would rather hire cheap, illegal
labor than American workers, it doesn't happen. It is one aspect of a haphazard,
politically motivated immigration policy that too often rewards those who break
the rules.

Resendez broke the rules, repeatedly. Though residents of several states can
rest easier, every American ought to wonder how many other dangerous people the
Border Patrol encounters and releases in all parts of the country because there
wasn't enough money to get some vital information to the right people.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              164 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 23, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 112 words


RIVIERA BEACH - Nine men and three women from Haiti were discovered Monday
morning as stowaways aboard a freighter at the Port of Palm Beach. They were
under two lifeboats stored upside down on an upper deck, said Arthur Bullock,
head of the U.S. Border Patrol office in Riviera Beach. The ship was the
110-foot Mia Dean from Nassau, the Bahamas. They were taken to Krome Detention
Center in Miami for hearings, Bullock said. Also Monday, Jupiter Island Sgt.
Bill Mason said 20 adults - 18 men and two women from Haiti - were caught
shortly after they landed on Jupiter Island. Bullock said the voyagers, who came
from the Bahamas, also were taken to Krome.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              165 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 4, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

FOES CRITICIZE IDEA OF DOOR-TO-DOOR IMMIGRATION HUNT

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Farm worker advocates on Tuesday denounced a city commissioner's request that
the U.S. Border Patrol join housing code enforcement sweeps in a neighborhood
populated by Guatemalans.

"This area has become our little Guatemala and we need to take the appropriate
actions now," Commissioner Howard Warshauer wrote in a memo to City
Administrator Mike Wright.

Warshauer said neighborhood deterioration will be discussed in a meeting at 5:30
p.m. Wednesday in his office at 418 Northwood Road. Overcrowded housing,
narcotics sales and trash on the streets are concerns, he said.

City code inspectors often make unannounced visits to homes to inspect for
overcrowding, electrical wiring and plumbing violations, and abandoned cars.

Some of the poorest neighborhoods in the city are in Warshauer's district. An
exception is Old Northwood, an affluent neighborhood east of Broadway.

Targeting a national group and making door-to-door immigration checks is wrong,
responded farm worker organizations.

About 1,500 Guatemalans live in the north end of the city from 25th to 45th
streets, said Jaime Zapata, executive director of the Guatemalan-Maya Center in
Lake Worth. About a third of the Guatemalans who visit his office do not have
legal status as immigrants, he said.

"To suggest that being a Guatemalan makes them an illegal immigrant is a
violation of the civil rights of these individuals," said Ruben Chavez,
executive director of the Farmworkers Coordinating Council. "There are problems
in that neighborhood, but this isn't the way to address them."

Spokesmen for the city's code enforcement office and the federal Border Patrol
disputed Warshauer's belief that they had worked jointly in the past.

"As a general rule, we work specific information. We don't do sweeps," said Mike
Sheehan, a spokesman for the Border Patrol's district office.

Warshauer said he did not intend to target Guatemalans as a group.

"I've been one of the few leaders in this neighborhood that have worked with
them," he said. "They are good neighbors and good people."

But those in the country illegally should not be allowed to live in the
neighborhood, Warshauer said.

Zapata said immigration controls should be applied at the nation's borders, not
in neighborhoods. "It should be more organized, not a surprise like you're going
hunting," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              166 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 28, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

CLINTON CALLS UPON HISPANIC SUPPORTERS

BYLINE: ANNE L. BOLES

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 212 words


 President Clinton on Saturday urged a group of local Hispanics to be wary of
the forces that divide Americans, be it a terrorist's bomb or proposals to
isolate the children of illegal immigrants.
   Speaking in a conference call to Hispanic supporters in nearly 50 cities,
including suburban West Palm Beach, Clinton criticized Republican-led efforts to
end bilingual education or deny schooling to undocumented immigrants and their
children.
 "These things that tend to divide people, I think weaken our country, when what
we ought to be doing is pulling our country together under our shared values to
meet the challenges of the 21st century," Clinton said.
   Through affordable housing initiatives, medical leave and other programs, his
administration has tried "to give people the tools they need to build better
lives for themselves," Clinton said.
   The president made the conference call as part of a campaign effort targeting
Hispanic voters.
   His candor drew sympathy from the gathering of 30 local Democrats, many of
Puerto Rican, Mexican or Cuban lineage. They listened by speakerphone in the
living room of Mike and Iris Rios off Summit Boulevard in West Palm Beach. Mike
Rios heads the Palm Beach County Democratic Hispanic club.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              167 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 9, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

DIVERSITY, NOT LANGUAGE, UNITES NATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 159 words


In response to the letter "If immigrants learn English, they help to unify
America": How can learning to speak English "unify America" when out of 50
states, only a few have adopted English as the "official language"?

Spanish is a widely spoken language, but Spanish is not the only language
printed on public notices in the United States. Wherever a "majority" of
immigrants from a certain nation settle, they are provided with public notices
in their language. In such places as Chinatown and Little Italy in New York
City, they have their own newspapers and public notices available in their
language; same thing with Haitians living in Hialeah.

The U.S. is a "united nation" because of the foreign diversity we have. We will
never be "segregated" as Quebec is. Therefore, leave Spanish-speaking citizens
alone, and let's concentrate on important subjects such as education budget
cuts.

Solange Marques

Lake Worth

NEXT TWO TOGETHER

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              168 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 15, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

KEMP REVERSES HIS IDEAS FOR DOLE BUT 'NOT IDEALS'

BYLINE: B. DRUMMOND AYRES JR.

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


After spending most of his political career as a fiscal conservative but social
moderate, Jack Kemp has publicly reversed himself on the issues of immigration
and affirmative action.

The former New York congressman is now caught up in an ideological wrestling
match with himself to mesh his brand of Republicanism with Bob Dole's more
right-leaning brand.

Kemp acknowledged Wednesday that the tug-and-pull was under way - leaving him
lurching back and forth between his old speech-making self and his new
running-mate self.

Until this week, Kemp had supported affirmative action and had opposed
Proposition 187, the 1994 California measure that aimed to limit services
provided to illegal immigrants.

But in an upbeat 35-minute speech to the California delegation Wednesday, Kemp
unabashedly came out for California Proposition 209 on the Nov. 5 ballot, which
would undo all affirmative action programs operated by California government.

"I might abandon an idea, but not an ideal," Kemp said. "I can change
politically without changing my principles."

Later, in an interview at the GOP convention's headquarters, he said: "You're
watching a metamorphosis. I would be a fool to put my feet down in a position
where I can't accommodate metamorphoses."

Dole favors elimination of affirmative action programs and the withholding of
most government services and aid from illegal immigrants.

Kemp, at least before he became Dole's vice presidential choice, was a strong
supporter of affirmative action and staunchly opposed withholding government
services such as schooling and medical assistance from illegal immigrants.

But over the course of the past six days, Kemp has reversed himself on
affirmative action and, in an interview published Wednesday by the Los Angeles
Times, on immigration. Then, after a few hours of publicity on those shifts,
Kemp seemed to shift again.

In the interview, he neither fully embraced the Dole view nor fully gave up his
own view. Rather, he came at the two issues elliptically, saying illegal
immigration had to be stopped, somehow, and that racial parity had to be found,
somehow.

"Obviously, I just can't do the laissez-faire approach I have in the past," he
said. But he insisted that the Dole-Kemp views were "reconcilable."

Anyway, he added, Dole had moved toward him on the issue of tax cuts to improve
the economy, something Kemp has long favored and Dole, until a few days ago, had
long opposed.

The political challenge Kemp faces is that he must not come across as being at
ideological odds with Dole, yet he must seem to give the Republican ticket a
balancing measure of ideological moderation. That balance was a prime reason
Dole reached out to him.

Kemp insisted there was absolute unity on the Dole-Kemp ticket.

"But unity does not require uniformity," he said.

But what about withholding services from illegal immigrants and eliminating
affirmative action?

Kemp considered the question once again, and this time chose to come at it from
the side, saying that the best way to solve the illegal immigration problem was
to "close the door of illegal immigration so that we can keep the door of legal
immigration open."

In some earlier statements this week, Kemp indicated that he favored withholding
government services, such as schooling, from illegal immigrants. But he pulled
up short of that Wednesday, saying instead that he believed illegal immigration
could be slowed by increased checking of credentials and birth records and that
the slowing could be accomplished without turning "California or the country
into a police state."

"My life is not about 187," he said, referring to Proposition 187, the 1994
California ballot initiative that called for withholding such services and
prompted calls for federal legislation that would do the same.

As for affirmative action, Kemp in recent days has indicated support for the
California ballot initiative that would eliminate all affirmative action
programs based on race or sex, an initiative Dole has endorsed and one, like
Proposition 187, that also has prompted calls for similar federal legislation.

But Wednesday, Kemp, while supporting the initiative, preferred instead to cite
his close ties to the nation's blacks and to call racial and ethnic
reconciliation "one of the single greatest goals of this country on the eve of
the 21st century."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION / ELECTION '96 / Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              169 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 19, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

RECORD NUMBERS CLAMOR FOR CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The 3,000 people who filled a convention hall Sunday morning seemed like an
unprecedented number for a citizenship ceremony. But it was only the first
sitting.

The matinee brought 3,000 more.

In record numbers, immigrants are clamoring to become citizens as federal law
and public opinion moves toward citizens-only benefits and services. Since
accelerated citizenship began four months ago, more than 77,000 South Floridians
have switched from green card to citizen.

The new Americans attending Sunday's ceremony at the downtown James L. Knight
Convention Center represented 84 countries. The countries with the biggest
turnouts were Cuba, Colombia, Jamaica, Nicaragua and Haiti.

"Everyone wants to be an American. Isn't that the dream?" said Elie Merhi, 23,
of Boca Raton. Merhi, who was born in Lebanon but grew up in Florida, was among
those sworn in Sunday morning. His parents and sister have all taken the
citizenship oath in recent weeks.

"Who knows? I could be deported any day for whatever reason if I'm not a
citizen," said Merhi, a bodybuilder and owner of Gerfalcon Art Galleries in
Delray Beach. He said he wants to be a citizen to vote and to make foreign
travel easier, not for government assistance.

"I've never looked at it that way," he said.

Others say they feel they will be treated better as citizens.

"Being a legal resident in the United States is the same as being undocumented,"
said Bolivian-born Juan Condori, 25, of Lake Worth, who took his citizenship
exam Saturday.

"If you have a problem at your work or at a store, you have no rights," said
Condori, a construction worker. "As a citizen I have a right to speak up."

Condori and six others are studying for the citizenship exam at the Latin
American Network, a social service agency in Riviera Beach. Although the tests
are in English, the study guides and classes are in Spanish and English.

The number of immigrants seeking citizenship has tripled in three years, said
Jack Bulger, chief of the Citizenship USA program in Miami. More than 160 people
were hired by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service district office in
Miami to clear a backlog of citizenship applications and process new
applications faster.

About 1.2 million citizenships will be granted this year, and the number should
level to 500,000 next year, he said.

That projection does not consider a possible response by immigrants to a bill
passed by Congress this month.

The bill would deny food stamps, welfare, Medicaid and Social Security
supplemental income to noncitizens, Bulger said.

"We will find out in the next two months what impact welfare reform will have,"
Bulger said.

But celebration was on the minds of most immigrants Sunday as they stood for the
National Anthem, swore to uphold the Constitution and listened to Lee Greenwood
recordings.

While some of the new Americans wore turbans or shawls, most looked comfortably
Americanized.

"I'm very happy. I'm going to live here forever," said Venezuelan-born Aida
Rosenbloom of Fort Lauderdale.

During the oath, she held her 3-month-old daughter in her left arm while her
husband, Martin, videotaped.

During a keynote address, Bulger welcomed new Americans to "the greatest country
the civilized world has known."

He said that while they no longer have political ties to their homelands, their
cultural traditions are welcome.

A red-haired American teenager hawking tiny American flags outside the
convention center recognized that his potential customers had adopted a new
country but not a new language.

"Banderas americanas (American flags)," he yelled.

GAINING CITIZENSHIP

Who can become a citizen?

Anyone who has lived in the United States as a lawful, permanent resident for
five years. A resident married to a U.S. citizen can apply for citizenship after
three years.

Steps to citizenship

Application: Order form N-400 by calling 1-800-870-3676. Form must be returned
with two photographs, fingerprint chart, copy of your permanent residency card
and a $ 95 processing fee.

Interview: Applicant is interviewed by immigration examiners and tested on
knowledge of United States government and history, and the English language.

Oath: Applicant attends a ceremony and swears allegiance to the United States.
Applicant receives Certificate of Naturalization and becomes a citizen.

SOURCE: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text. Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), SWEARING IN, GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, About 3,000
immigrants are sworn in as U.S. citizens Sunday morning at the James L. Knight
Convention Center in Miami.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              170 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 23, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

MOST IMMIGRANTS WILL STILL GET WELFARE IN FLA.

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Although the welfare reform bill President Clinton signed Thursday denies
benefits to noncitizens, most immigrants in Florida will continue to receive
cash assistance and Medicaid coverage.

A preliminary report prepared by the Florida Washington Office concludes that 97
percent of the nearly 31,000 immigrants in Florida receiving payments through
Aid to Families with Dependent Children will continue receiving benefits because
of the welfare reform act passed by the legislature in May.

Similarly, 95 percent of the nearly 72,000 noncitizens in Florida receiving
Medicaid will continue to be covered by the health care program for the poor.

Immigrants are expected to be hardest hit by the cutoff of food stamps.

About 83 percent of the 155,000 noncitizens in Florida who are eligible for food
stamps will be ineligible when they appear for their next annual review. That
means some could become ineligible next month and others not until August 1997.

Those who would remain eligible for food stamps would be "specifically
designated qualified aliens" - primarily those who entered the United States as
refugees or asylum seekers. They would remain eligible for five years.

While Florida's law, the Work and Gain Economic Self-Sufficiency Act, is more
lenient toward immigrants than the federal law, it is harsher in its limitation
of welfare benefits toward the poor.

Florida's law limits lifetime benefits to four years - rather than five in the
federal law - and temporary assistance to 24 months out of 60 months.

In Tallahassee, Gov. Lawton Chiles praised Clinton for signing the bill. He said
Florida will seek federal permission to run the time limits starting in October,
before the federal law takes effect.

Chiles signed the state's version of welfare reform three months ago, backing a
plan based on 2-year-old experimental welfare-to-work programs running in
Alachua and Escambia counties.

Florida welfare reform director Don Winstead said about 160,000 adults among the
200,000 families on welfare will have to get into jobs and training programs.
But, he said they will be phased in over about six months.

Florida's law also caps benefits so a welfare family that has an additional
child will receive only half the allotment for another child. The state will not
pay higher benefits for any additional children.

The bill earmarks about $ 60 million more to Florida for cash assistance to
welfare families and about $ 30 million for child care than previous spending
formulas, according to the Florida Washington Office.

Post Capitol Bureau Chief Larry Kaplow contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              171 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 28, 1996, Wednesday, WEST EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 471 words


BELLE GLADE - A 33-year-old woman and her boyfriend were hospitalized Tuesday
night after her ex-boyfriend attacked them with a tire iron, Belle Glade police
said. Maquesta Harold and William Grier, 50, called police about 8:30 p.m. to
say that Harold's ex-boyfriend, Troy Spears, was chasing them through downtown
with a tire iron, said Detective Kevin Kuschel. The couple got away and gave a
statement to police before returning to Harold's apartment at 417 S.W. Ave. E
about 9:30 p.m., Kuschel said. However, Spears, 38, was waiting for them there,
and he attacked them as they got out of her car, Kuschel said. Harold was flown
to St. Mary's Medical Center where she was in critical condition with head
injuries and compound fractures to each leg. Grier was in good condition at
Glades General Hospital with head injuries. Police were continuing late Tuesday
to search for Spears, who lives at 51 Roosevelt St. in Belle Glade.

U.S. Border Patrol officers followed a tip Tuesday and arrested 27 undocumented
immigrants at a construction site at Boynton Beach Boulevard and Florida's
Turnpike about 7:30 a.m., station supervisor Art Bullock said. The 23 Mexican
men were taken to the Martin County Jail and will be flown back to Mexico today,
Bullock said. The other four, from Nicaragua and El Salvador, will receive
hearings from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, he said. Border Patrol
officers are trying to find out which contractor hired the men. Anyone with
information on illegal immigrants can call the Border Patrol office at 848-6161.

These 33 people were charged with unlicensed contracting, a misdemeanor, during
a sting operation in Boca Raton.

JOE ADIKA, Metro Electric

WAYNE ASMAN, AM/PM Complete Remodeling

HAIM BASSAN, Haim the Handyman

JEFFREY BERG, Low Cost Electrical Repairs

MICHAEL CALDERONE, CSSI Alarms

WAYNE COE

JOSEPH COLLINS, Old Man Roofer

WILLIAM COURNOYER, Atlantic Roofer

CHARLES CUOZZO

MICHAEL DELUCA, The Home Doctor

JOAO FILHO, 5 0/50 Roofing Consulting Services

CARLOS FRANCO, Reliable Home Improvement

ANTHONY GALANTO

MORDEHAY GENOUNE, Full Home Repairs

ANTHONY GRILLO, Action Air

MICHAEL GRUGAN, Ace Carpentry

MICHAEL GUZZO, All Repairs and Odd Jobs

HOWARD KEMP

BARRY KERR, Premier Services or Premier Home and Commercial Services Inc.

JOSEPH LANCRY, Full Home Repairs

EUGENE MCCABE, Beautiful Home Repairs

JEREMIAH NICASTRO

GERRY NOWLING

MARVIN NUSSBAUM, Marvco Plumbing

BENJAMIN POLLARD, Handyman Ben

HARRY ROBIN, Access Security Inc.

ELISEO RODRIGUEZ, Cousin's Handyman

HECTOR RODRIGUEZ, Cousin's Handyman

DEAN SMITTLE, Dean's Home Repair

ALEX STEFANOWITZ, Alex's Plumbing Service

BARRY SWENSON, Able Co. Home Repairs

RICK VILLANO, Good as New Home Repair

VICTOR WINK, Nikki Leigh Home Service

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              172 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 8, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA'S COSTS FOR IMMIGRANTS' EDUCATION HIGH

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 164 words


The number of immigrant students, either documented or illegal, is not known in
Florida. A 1990 consent decree signed by the state and immigrant advocacy groups
prohibits education officials from asking about the residency status of
students' families.

However, Gov. Lawton Chiles' Office of Planning and Budgeting issued a report in
March 1994 that attempted to show "the staggering costs that Florida's citizens
must pay as a direct result of federal immigration policy."

The report estimated that total educational costs for immigrant students to the
state and local school districts between 1988 and 1993 was more than $ 818
million. Federal reimbursements for those costs was less than $ 41 million.

The costs include ESOL classes (English for Speakers of Other Languages), school
lunch programs, adult education and other school services.

However, the report cautions, costs may be overestimated because many students
who receive the services are U.S. citizens.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              173 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 12, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER AGENTS GET WRONG HOUSE

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Jose Ortiz says he sang the Guatemalan national anthem at gunpoint.

But the immigration agents who made the request were not convinced he wasn't one
of the Mexicans with guns and drugs they were looking for.

Not until U.S. Border Patrol agents searched his home Tuesday did they discover
they were at the wrong house. Still, Ortiz and four other Guatemalans were taken
to the Border Patrol station in Riviera Beach for questioning.

While Border Patrol agents admit it was the wrong house, they say Ortiz, 31, may
be suspected in Texas of smuggling undocumented workers into the country and
that some of the others had suspicious immigration documents.

Border Patrol station chief Art Bullock said they went to Ortiz's home at 2817
Georgia Ave. looking for two armed Mexicans and a red Camaro. The tipster gave
an address: 707 1/2 Talledaga St., a garage apartment next door. A red Pontiac
Firebird was parked at Ortiz's home.

"It was totally an accident," said Bullock, who said street numbers were not
visible.

After discovering their mistake, agents found the two Mexicans next door and
confiscated a .32-caliber pistol and ammo for an AK-47 rifle, Bullock said. He
said the two Mexicans were deported Wednesday for having fake documents.

Ortiz said the agents entered his home with guns drawn and broke closet and
cabinet doors and turned beds upside down looking for guns and drugs. Bullock
said agents found three out-of-state license tags which he said smugglers
sometimes use as they transport undocumented workers across the country. He
denied that agents broke any doors.

Ortiz said he was charged with smuggling in El Paso, Texas in 1991, but the
charges were dismissed.

Bullock said some of the other Guatemalans are in limbo status in the United
States because their political asylum claims have not been approved.

"We all have work permits," Ortiz said. "But they told us we have two days to
voluntarily leave the country."

Carlos Cisneros, executive director of the Guatemalan Maya-Quetzal advocacy
group, said he has asked the Guatemalan Consulate in Miami to investigate the
Border Patrol's actions.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              174 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 13, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SHOW ON IMMIGRATION ISN'T FIT FOR CHILDREN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 553 words


Immigration is the federal government's job. Yet the Republican Congress, whose
leaders say they want to ease Washington's burden on states, may vote next week
on an immigration "reform" bill that would place a heavier burden on states such
as Florida for a problem the feds won't fix.

The House and Senate have passed separate bills. The main disagreement between
the two houses is over the amendment by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., allowing
states to deny free education to children in the United States illegally. The
amendment was not offered in the Senate, and more than 40 senators have said
they oppose it. (Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., was one of three senators voting
against the bill. Florida's Republican senator, Connie Mack, voted for it.)

Keeping the children of illegals out of school makes no sense. First, the
children aren't responsible for their status. Second, since they're here,
wouldn't we be better off letting them get an education, not just hang out?
Finally, the amendment would turn school officials - who have so little to do -
into immigration officials.

Work on resolving the bills is behind schedule because House members of the
conference committee - including Reps. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, and Bill
McCollum, R-Altamonte Springs - weren't chosen until Wednesday. Here's how
muddled the thinking has been so far:

One compromise would divide illegal immigrant children into two groups -
kindergarten through sixth grade and seventh through 12th grades. Children
already enrolled could complete the grades in their "group." But all others
would have to pay tuition.

So illegal immigrants, with low-wage jobs, would pay "tuition" to public
schools? Interesting logic, or lack of.

Florida already expects to be hurt by the welfare "reform" bill signed last
month by President Clinton. It also limits benefits for immigrants. In an Aug.
21 letter to the president, Gov. Chiles pointed out that the U.S.-Cuba
agreements alone will allow more than 15,000 legal immigrants a year into
Florida, some elderly or disabled.

"The restriction of federal benefits to these legal immigrants will have a
devastating effect on our state, particularly in South Florida," he wrote. "Our
preliminary analysis of the bill indicates that more than 80 percent of
non-citizens now receiving food stamps in Florida no longer will be eligible as
of their next certification review."

That's not Florida's only worry. Gov. Chiles is "gravely concerned" about the
administrative burden of determining immigration status. "It appears state
governments will not only have to establish an applicant's status but determine
when a resident comes to this country," he said. That money would be diverted
from Florida's own welfare reform plan.

No one knows the number of immigrant children in Florida. By law, state
officials can't ask about resident status. But an estimate in 1994 by the
governor's Office of Planning and Budget figured educational costs to the state
and local school districts at $ 818 million between 1988 and 1993.

Cost is one reason Americans want to be tougher on immigration. But denying
education to children is inhumane and stupid. The toughness should come from the
agency charged with keeping illegal immigrants out of the country - the federal
government.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              175 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              September 23, 1996, Monday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

INDIANTOWN NUN DRIVEN TO HELP AREA IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: ALISON FITZGERALD

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


If Sister Theresa Auad were in it for the money, she'd be the head of an
international conglomerate by now.

Sitting in the back office of the bustling InDios Cooperative in Indiantown on a
recent morning, she was researching college scholarships for Maria, the
19-year-old daughter of a grove worker who wants to go to Indian River Community
College next year. Earlier that day, a local man came in looking for help to buy
a house.

The Dominican nun with long black hair and vast eyeglasses has become the
ombudsman for the poor and the immigrants of Indiantown.

Whatever the question, whatever the request, Sister Theresa knows where to look,
who to call.

"I have a lot of friends," she said, with a mischievous smile.

Some of those friends will honor Sister Theresa this week in Orlando with the
National Catholic Development Conference's Good Samaritan Award.

When she came to Indiantown in 1983 after running weaving co-ops in Bolivia,
Sister Theresa knew she wanted to help migrant farm workers become more stable
but she didn't know what kind of help the workers wanted.

"She came and really wanted to know how she could help these people. So she went
out in the groves," said Sister Marie Celeste Gatti, superintendent of the Hope
Rural School in Indiantown.

What Sister Theresa learned was that the women in the fields wanted to learn a
skill they could use. They wanted to learn to sew.

And InDios Cooperative Inc. was born.

InDios is a mail-order business, with 14 former farm workers making vestments
for Catholic priests all over the country and the world.

In the cluttered office at the back of InDios, Sister Theresa sat at a computer.
Her aqua and indigo shirt practically glowed in contrast to the gray cinder
block walls and giant rolls of black priestly cloth. Outside the door, a dozen
women were busy at sewing machines, and boxes labeled "manga larga" and "manga
corta" were stacked high on the walls.

The women run the business on their own these days.

"I don't have that much to do with them anymore," Sister Teresa said. "They are
organized and have their own system."

But that doesn't mean she isn't busy.

Not only did she bring women into InDios, but she has served as a clearinghouse
for laborers throughout the county.

"Construction, landscaping, golf courses. We do all the labor force in Martin
County. We do all the yards and landscaping and make it attractive for the
tourists," she said.

As Indiantown's migrant farm workers became stable farm workers, they began
looking to buy their own homes and went to Sister Theresa for help.

She found the answers. She organized home buying seminars with local banks, and
helped families locate affordable homes.

Linda Creech of Barnett Bank in Stuart said several immigrants have been granted
mortgages with her help. "I don't know if facilitator is the right word," Creech
said. "But a lot of the people are migrant workers and some of them aren't that
sophisticated in borrowing money."

Sister Theresa explains the process:"We go through the whole spiel to tell them
what it takes to have a house. Then I go and bargain with the bank. Whoever is
going to be nice in that case, I go for it. I show them everything. How do you
paint? How do you fix the roof? How do you clean the cucurrachas in that house?"

In the last year, The Industry That Is Sister Theresa has diversified again, to
helping immigrants become American citizens. The new initiative, like everything
else she's done, sprang from a need in the community.

"The migrants wanted it," she said. Their reasons: "So I can vote. So I cannot
be afraid of injustices. When you are a resident, you still have to be careful,"
she said.

Now Indiantown's immigrants go to the tiny office behind InDios where Sister
Theresa prepares their paperwork. She has arranged with Martin County Sheriff
Robert Crowder to have her clients fingerprinted for free, and has enlisted the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to give citizenship tests right in town.
A local lawyer comes by to periodically to help people practice for the oral
exam.

Sister Catherine Cassidy, a Fort Pierce attorney with the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center, said that before Sister Theresa stepped in, lawyers would
charge $ 700 just to prepare the immigration forms.

"She's someone that doesn't wait for solutions to come to her; she just goes out
and finds the solution," said Brian Powers, general manager of Indiantown Gas
Co. "(The migrant workers) want to have an impact in the community. Sister
Theresa is a conduit and guides them on how to do it."

In the 13 years since she arrived in Indiantown, Sister Theresa has changed the
face of the largely Guatamalan farm worker community. She encourages all those
she helps to join the neighborhood association, which has a monthly community
cleanup. The immigrant community has become a driving force in Indiantown, and
from her little office next to Radio Shack, Sister Theresa has been behind it
all.

"It's just unbelievable how she moves from one to another while still getting
the shirts out," marveled Sister Marie Celeste.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run SOUTH.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), JASON NUTTLE/Staff Photographer, Sister Theresa Auad stands
by a sewing machine at the InDios Cooperative in Indiantown.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              176 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

            September 25, 1996, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FORMER DEA INFORMANT FACES IMMIGRATION CHARGE

BYLINE: PAT MOORE

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: STUART


A former Drug Enforcement Administration informant on the verge of avoiding
prosecution because of a paperwork snafu will face federal charges of entering
the United States illegally in 1993 by using a false passport, officials said
Tuesday.

Marwan Abouraad, 34, was released Monday from the Martin County Jail into the
custody of federal marshals, who are expected to take him to Detroit for
prosecution. Abouraad had served nearly four years of a sentence for extorting
nearly $ 60,000 from a Port St. Lucie physician before Circuit Judge John
Fennelly reduced his sentence Friday to time served.

Assistant State Attorney Richard Seymour said federal officials confirmed
Tuesday they will prosecute Abouraad on a charge that he entered the country
illegally in 1993.

Last week, Seymour said he feared Abouraad would be released without facing the
federal charge because officials with the U.S. Attorney's Office and U.S.
Marshal's Office could not locate the paperwork charging Abouraad with the
illegal entry.

The documents were located this week and federal prosecutors will pursue the
charge, Seymour said.

If Abouraad is convicted of the federal charge, he could serve up to five years
in prison and face deportation to his native Lebanon, immigration officials
said.

Abouraad was first deported from the United States in 1985 after entering the
country on a fake passport, but the DEA helped him return so he could work
undercover for the agency.

He was deported again in 1992 after pleading no contest to cocaine and firearm
possession charges in Stuart.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              177 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 29, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

GOP LOSING HISPANIC SUPPORT, POLLS SHOW

BYLINE: EUNICE MOSCOSO

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


These days, some Cuban-Americans such as Aurelio Rodriguez are feeling betrayed
by the Republican Party.

"Republicans can be two-faced," Rodriguez said. "They come here campaigning,
talking tough against Fidel Castro. But after they leave they stab us in the
back with anti-immigrant measures that affect our relatives."

Rodriguez, who has an elderly mother who is a noncitizen and depends on monthly
benefits checks, is wavering on voting for Dole, despite a longtime allegiance
to the GOP.

While some of his concerns were eased by Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles' recent
announcement that Florida will not eliminate welfare benefits for legal
noncitizens, a backlash persists against the GOP in what has long been
considered one of its strongholds.

And worse, political analysts say Cuban-Americans such as Rodriguez - upset with
Republicans' "anti-immigrant" image - could give President Clinton enough
Hispanic votes to win the electoral vote-rich Sunshine State come election day.

Fueling this "anti-immigrant" image among Hispanics are among other things,
Republican stands on welfare reform that eliminates benefits for legal
noncitizens, tough new immigration reform and the English-only movement,
analysts said.

For their part, Republicans say Hispanic voters are more concerned with economic
and "family values" issues and deny the party is "anti-Latino."

"It's just not true," said Rep. Henry Bonilla, R-Texas, of his party's portrayal
as anti-minority - a label he said has been propagated by "political scientists
sitting behind their desks" and "self-appointed Latino leaders" who are not out
in the community.

Many Hispanics, concerned about their children and their paychecks, are
"shifting" toward the Republican Party, Bonilla added.

But in California and New York, states with large Hispanic populations - and a
large amount of electoral votes - President Clinton leads by more than 20 points
in most polls. While in Texas and Florida, where a Democrat has not won a
presidential election since Jimmy Carter in 1976, the races are close and the
Hispanic vote will likely be a determining factor.

Although many polls still favor Dole in Texas, state Democratic Party leaders
readily quote a recent poll of 1,200 Texans conducted by the Mellman Group which
shows the president's support at 44 percent of the Hispanic vote and Republican
presidential nominee Bob Dole with 41 percent.

"There is no question that Texas is definitely reachable," boasts Jorge Ramirez,
executive director of the Texas Democratic Party.

It is Florida, however, where elderly retirees worry over the Republican-led
Congress' bid to squeeze savings from the Medicare program to balance the
budget, that has Republicans most worried.

The chances of a Democratic victory seem to improve weekly, with the most recent
polls showing the presidential candidates neck-and-neck.

In such a tight race, the state's influential Cuban-American population could
play a critical role. Despite their traditional loyalty to the Republican Party,
polls show Cuban-American support for the GOP is slowly eroding.

"We might be looking at a 20-percent shift" which could be as much as 60,000
votes, said Dario Moreno, a political science professor at Florida International
University in Miami. Clinton lost Florida by about 100,000 votes in 1992.

For more than 30 years, Florida's mostly conservative Cuban-Americans have been
largely Republican. Their strong support for the GOP began as a reaction to the
Kennedy administration's inability to topple Fidel Castro.

But since 1984, when 88 percent helped put Ronald Reagan in office, their
overwhelming support for the GOP at the voting booth has steadily declined. In
1988, 85 percent voted for Bush. That number plummeted to 71 percent for the
Republican candidate in 1992.

And recent polls put Dole's support among Cuban-Americans in Florida at around
57 percent, with 14-15 percent undecided.

In Congress, Cuban-American Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen,
both Republicans from Dade County, opposed their party's efforts to tighten
immigration, declare English the official language of the United States and
withhold benefits from legal immigrants. They were also the only two Republicans
who refused to sign the House GOP's "Contract with America."

The other Hispanic Republican in the House, Bonilla, voted against the
English-only legislation, and supported the welfare and immigration reform
legislation saying, "most Latinos are in favor of cutting down on illegal and
legal immigration."

LATINO/HISPANIC VOTING TRENDS

Cuban-American voters are more likely to vote Republican than Hispanics overall.

On the issues:

- Clinton: Opposes official English; as Arkansas governor, however, signed
official-English law for state. Backs "moderate" cut in legal immigration.
Opposes most social services for illegal immigrants, but would let their
children attend schools.< - Bob Dole: Advocate official English. Backs "modest,
temporary" cut in legal immigration. Would deny most social services to illegal
immigrants. Pushed for legislation giving more money to states struggling with
costs of jailing illegal immigrants.

- Ross Perot: Would give priority in schools to teaching English, but would
teach other languages beginning in elementary grades to improve competitiveness
in global economy. Favors emphasizing job skills and education among criteria
for admitting immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text. Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (2 B&W), STEVE MADDEN/Staff Artist, 1. Cuban-American vote in
presidential elections (1980-92), SOURCE: Florida International University,
Miami, 2. The 1992 presidential race (Nationwide figures)

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              178 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 1, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

CLINTON SIGNS IMMIGRATION, MONEY BILLS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal spending and immigration measures shaped under the threat of a
preelection government shutdown got final approval from the Senate Monday
evening, and the package was quickly signed by a pleased President Clinton.

In the end, the package contained a little something for everyone to hate.
Republicans felt railroaded by Clinton's hard bargaining, while pro-immigrant
groups worried that the lightened reforms are still too tough on legal
immigrants.

While the Republican majority got its way on the overall size of the budget, the
Clinton administration was able to force congressional leaders to retreat on
some immigration issues that were also a part of the bill, and on cuts to some
of the president's favorite programs.

The White House wasted little time on Monday in trying to build political
capital on the legislation.

"It's clearly a victory for the president and the priorities that he has been
fighting for four years," Leon Panetta, the White House chief of staff, told
reporters.

In a signing statement, Clinton called the omnibus bill "good for America,"
because it ensures substantial amounts of money for education and training,
environmental protection and law enforcement.

"It moves us further toward our goal of a balanced budget while protecting our
values and priorities - educating our children, providing a clean environment,
fighting crime, protecting our families from drugs, and combating terrorism," he
said.

The package was approved by a 84-15 vote a few hours before the spending
authority for most federal agencies expired and just five weeks before the Nov.
5 elections.

"We were under pressure to complete our work so we could get out for the
election," said Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss. "Every House member
is up (for election); 34 senators' seats are up. That tends to rivet one's
attention to getting the job done and causing concessions that you wouldn't have
made earlier."

Clinton, too, was thinking of reelection when he used the threat of a government
shutdown to force Republicans to rewrite the immigration reforms. He removed
proposals to deport legal immigrants who accept public assistance for more than
a year and lowered the required income level for families who sponsor new
immigrants.

The bill still contains measures aimed at curbing illegal immigration by
increasing the U.S. Border Patrol by 5,000 agents over the next five years;
barring the legal re-entry for five years of anyone once caught illegally
entering the United States; and raising the prison terms and fines for smuggling
illegal immigrants into the United States.

Clinton insisted on changes in the parts of the bill dealing with legal
immigrants, hoping to help fulfill his promise to constituents in the Hispanic
and Asian communities. He had promised them he would soften the impact of the
previously enacted welfare reform that denies much public assistance to
immigrants.

"We really have to credit the White House for sticking to the promise the
president made," said Cecilia Munoz, lobbyist for the National Council of La
Raza, an umbrella group of Hispanic-advocacy organizations. "It is still an
awful, awful piece of work."

Among the provisions still of concern to La Raza and other pro-immigrant groups
is one that will limit courts' power to review decisions by the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service to exclude immigrants.

Despite those concerns, "the final fixes pleased us," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, whose members include
several groups that work with immigrants. "I think the bill could have been a
lot worse."

Indeed, the bill pending in Congress a week ago was much worse by the standards
of the advocacy groups, Clinton and many members of Congress. At that time the
House was preparing to vote on an immigration-reform package that included a
measure to allow states to deny public education to children living illegally in
the United States.

Under pressure from the White House and criticism from some Republican
lawmakers, the school measure was removed from the version of immigration reform
that the House approved last Wednesday. The House approved a separate bill
containing the schools measure alone, but that bill faces certain defeat in the
Senate if it ever reaches a vote there.

After the House vote, Clinton raised the hackles of lawmakers by insisting on
further changes to the immigration reforms. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchinson, R-Texas,
was among those speaking out against the White House pressure, but she voted in
favor of the immigration and spending package Monday.

"I thought long and hard about supporting this package," she said. "It was not
perfect but I had worked hard on several parts of the bill that were important
for the nation, and, in the end, the good outweighed the bad."

The legislative package bundles the last six of 13 spending bills for 1997,
providing $ 244 billion for defense and about $ 138 billion for nonmilitary
spending.

The total appropriations for 1997 for discretionary and mandatory programs is $
600 billion - the $ 244 billion for defense and $ 356 billion spread among the
13 appropriations bills.

Clinton had earlier signed into law five spending bills covering military
construction, agriculture, the District of Columbia, the congressional budget
and housing and veterans programs.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              179 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 14, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

GOOD REASON FOR IMMIGRATION WORRIES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 198 words


Our greatest social, economic and environmental problem is being overlooked:
burgeoning U.S. population growth fueled by excessively high levels of
immigration. The United States is the third-most populated country in the world,
after only China and India. And at our present growth rate of nearly 3 million
people a year, our nation's population of nearly 265 million is projected to
increase to 400 million by 2050.

What will this mean? Doubling our food production if we hope to continue to
provide for those in the U.S. and still supply humanitarian aid as well. Legal
immigration is projected to increase by 41 percent this year alone. How will
this influx of predominantly low-skilled people affect opportunities for those
to be released from the welfare system? Services will be harder to provide to
growing numbers. Crowded classrooms, overwhelmed emergency services and
increased pollution and traffic congestion will be the norm.

By enacting comprehensive immigration legislation now - for a five-year
moratorium of 100,000 a year followed by a 200,000 annual cap - the U.S. will be
halfway to achieving a stabilized population.

Bromwell Ault

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              180 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               October 18, 1996, Friday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

GINGRICH TOOK RESIDENT ALIENS' DONATIONS, TOO

BYLINE: JEANNE CUMMINGS

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has blasted the Democrats for taking donations
from "green card holders," accepted money for his reelection campaign from
resident aliens at a 1995 fund-raiser in California hosted by a leader of the
American Sikh community.

In addition, Gingrich used two 1990 receptions at foreign embassies, including
the Russian Embassy, to loosen the purse strings of the wealthy Americans who
backed his former political action committee, GOPAC.

The issue of foreign involvement in campaign fund raising exploded Sunday when
Gingrich attacked the Democrats for accepting a $ 425,000 donation from an
Indonesian couple legally living in the United States. The couple has since
returned to their homeland. More than half of the money was donated after the
couple returned to Indonesia, Gingrich said.

Resident aliens, though not allowed to vote, may make campaign contributions.

In an appearance on Face the Nation, Gingrich questioned whether the Indonesian
couple, who appeared to live modestly here, could afford the donation and
suggested they may have been a conduit for illegal contributors from foreign
interests.

"How many green-card holders have been solicited by the Clinton administration
and are funneling Asian money from China, from Korea, from Indonesia into the
Democratic Party to try to buy an election?" Gingrich asked, citing a Los
Angeles Times story as his source for the charge.

The Dole campaign seized on the topic, but turning campaign finance into an
election issue can be a double-edged sword.

The day after Gingrich's assault, the speaker stood beside Republican National
Committee Chairman Haley Barbour at a Denver fund-raiser as they vowed that
their party had never taken money from legal immigrants.

As they spoke, Pat Bowlen, the Canadian owner of the Denver Broncos, was
standing in the audience, the Denver Post reported. Bowlen, a noncitizen, has
contributed $ 3,500 to two Republicans and two Democrats this year.

In addition, RNC spokesman Ed Gillespie this week acknowledged that his party
has accepted other donations from resident aliens.

In Gingrich's case, it appears that the speaker has both accepted money from
legal immigrants and used the exotic allure of foreign embassies to raise money
from Americans.

Gingrich said Thursday that the contributions he accepted were different from
the Democratic donations because his contributions were more modest and the
legal immigrants are still in the country. "Can't you see the distinction?" he
asked.

As for the embassy receptions, Gingrich emphasized that the contributors were
citizens.

Gingrich used GOPAC to organize Republican efforts to win control of the House.
The committee was financed primarily by the anonymous "charter members," who
each donated at least $ 10,000 a year. GOPAC did not begin identifying its
contributors until 1994.

The receptions at the Russian and Saudi Arabian embassies were held in November
1990.

In a letter written after the event, Roger Milliken, a South Carolina textile
millionaire and charter member, pledged to donate or raise $ 100,000 for GOPAC
and went on to call the meeting at the Saudi Embassy an "extraordinary occasion
and (I) was impressed with ... Prince Bandar," the Saudi ambassador to the
United States.

Of the Soviet reception, Milliken wrote: "I never thought I would be in the
Russian Embassy, and although I missed the caviar, I found it to be a historic
occasion."

It was not the first time Gingrich tapped the foreign ranks in Washington to
dazzle wealthy donors.

Just six months before, Gingrich invited German Ambassador Juergen Ruhfus and
Yugoslavian Ambassador Dzedvad Mujezinovic to address the GOPAC charter members.

In nearly identical thank you letters, Gingrich wrote: "Several GOPAC members
have recently, or are in the process of, expanding their businesses into the
Federal Republic of German. Having the opportunity to hear from you was of great
importance to them."

In the letter to Mujezinovic, Gingrich inserted Yugoslavia to replace the
reference to Germany.

The California fund-raiser for Gingrich's campaign was held at the home of Didar
Singh Bains, president of the World Sikh Organization.

Bains, who is a U.S. citizen, acknowledged that he did not ask whether his
guests were also citizens and that some of them may not have been.

Nearly $ 50,000 was raised at the $ 1,000-per-person event, according to
Gingrich's Federal Election Commission records.

Federal records do not reveal a person's citizenship. But a review by the
Atlanta Journal-Constitution of the paying guests showed that about a third of
them are not registered to vote in California.

Most of the unregistered contributors who could be contacted by telephone
refused to comment. Some did not speak English.

Through an interpreter, Joginder Nijjar, who Gingrich's FEC reports note donated
$ 1,000, said he is not a citizen but hopes to become one soon.

Sohan Mann, another contributor at the event, said his family has held green
cards for nearly 20 years. Mann said he went to the event because friends asked
him to. "He came to our city and we heard about him. Then we go there and we pay
him. He's a nice man," said Mann.

According to a report in The Ethnic NewsWatch news service, Bains urged Gingrich
to support Sikh efforts to carve out a homeland in India.

The speaker pledged to work against alleged human rights violations in India,
but frustrated some guests when he said the issue of independence "has to be
worked out inside India."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Newt Gingrich (mug)

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              181 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 21, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

BOCA TEEN CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING RUSSIAN MAIDS

BYLINE: LYDA LONGA

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 614 words


Nina Yasnis is a Russian immigrant and Boca Raton teenager whose ambition,
family members say, is to attend law school.

But the chubby-faced, 19-year-old Yasnis, who arrived in New York with her
family seeking opportunity, now faces federal charges for allegedly capitalizing
on the dreams of her fellow countrymen.

Authorities say Yasnis was part of a New York-based smuggling ring that lured
middle-aged Russian women to the United States to work as domestic servants in
private homes in the New York area.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials in Brooklyn say the ring
brought more than 300 Russian women - all illegal aliens - to this country
between September 1995 and April 1996.

Yasnis, who lives with her mother in a Boca Raton apartment on Palmetto Park
Road, was arrested in Boca Raton by the U.S. Border Patrol in early September.
She is out on bond while she awaits a federal hearing, said Assistant U.S.
Attorney Hui Chen.

In a five-page arrest warrant issued by the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn, INS
Special Agent John Morris outlined the ring's "pipeline" operation:

Yasnis was responsible for meeting the women at John F. Kennedy International
Airport in New York and seizing their passports and return tickets to Russia.
The women had been recruited by other members who placed ads in local newspapers
throughout Russia. Once they were assured the women would travel, the smugglers
obtained fake documents to forge visitor visas.

An accomplice and allegedly one of the ringleaders, Boris Zilberov, then
purchased airline tickets to New York, Morris wrote.

The smugglers would keep the passports and return tickets until the women paid a
predetermined amount of money, Morris said.

"Between the time of the women's arrival in New York and their actual job
placement, Nina, or 'Yana' as she is also known, would then take the women and
keep them in a safe house in Brooklyn," Morris wrote.

Last March, INS agents armed with federal search warrants entered the warehouse
where the women were allegedly being held by Yasnis and Zilberov. Agents came
away with several ledger books detailing everything about the women's jobs,
including their salary and the number of children in their employers' families,
Morris said. Many of the ledger entries had the name "Nina" written across them,
he said.

Zilberov and Valeriy Fulman, a third accomplice who allegedly worked closely
with Yasnis, have already been convicted of smuggling charges and are awaiting
sentencing, Chen said.

This kind of "pipeline" operation is not uncommon, INS and Border Patrol
officials say.

Groups of different nationalities typically set up pipeline-type rings designed
to smuggle people from their own countries into the United States, said Herb
Jefferson, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Miami.

"A lot of people come into New York or Miami through the Bahamas or Canada, and
they either stay in the South Florida area or they spread out to different parts
of the country, depending on where most of the people from their country live,"
Jefferson said. "We know that most of the Eastern Europeans are in the New York
area, for example."

Yasnis, whose family left New York for Boca Raton three months ago, could face
up to five years in prison if convicted of the alien smuggling charge, Chen
said.

And that's something her mother, Dora Yasnis, says she can't accept.

"This girl is only 19. She has her whole life in front of her," Dora Yasnis said
recently. "I took my children from Brooklyn because there were a lot of problems
there. Nina wants to be a lawyer more than anything. No one will ever hire her
now if this gets out."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) , Nina Yasnis, 19, faces up to five years in federal prison
if convicted.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              182 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 22, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

BROKEN PROMISES ON IMMIGRATION BREAK THE LAW

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 179 words


The recent article, "Clinton, Dole Sidestepping on Immigration" was very
revealing. Let me see if I have this straight:

The estimated number of illegal immigrants in California, New York, Texas,
Florida and Illinois is about 2,445,000. The figure for Florida in the article
is 357,000 and the cost of supporting immigrants in our state has risen to $ 3
billion over the past several years.

Now, if we know that these people are here illegally, then we know they are
breaking the law. In that case, why must taxpayers support these people with
free education, free medical care, housing subsidies, food stamps, welfare,
etc.?

Immigration reform might seem heartless and unfair, but if we don't enforce the
law, we are no better than some of the Third World countries whose policies we
criticize.

But, not to worry - President Clinton will reverse the unfair law he already
signed. Is this what he meant by building a bridge to the future? If it is,
there should be a warning sign saying, "Cross at your own risk."

Ronald C. Pilenzio

Palm Beach Gardens

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              183 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 3, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

'IF I AM ELECTED...'

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1398 words


 Here are the campaign stands taken by three presidential candidates: President
Clinton, the Democrat; former Sen. Bob Dole, the Republican, and Ross Perot, the
Reform Party candidate.


 PERSONAL

BILL CLINTON

Age: 50

Professional: Lawyer, law school professor

Politics: Arkansas attorney general 1977-79; governor 1979-81 and

1983-92; president 1993 - present

TAX CUTS $ 124 billion. Biggest cuts would be a tax credit for parents of

children 12 or under, and others would reward savings, homeselling,

and pursuit of higher education.To pay for it, eliminate tax breaks

for businesses and auction off the right to use the airwaves.

BALANCED Says constitutional amendment to balance the budget unnecessary

BUDGET because both parties are working toward balanced budget by 2002,

using the regular budget process. Waged a protracted fight with

congressional Republicans that shut down parts of the government

twice.

MEDICARE Reduce spending by $ 124 billion over six years. Support creation

of a Medicare reform commission. Would raise Medicare premiums

on wealthy seniors.

MEDICAID Restrain spending for nursing-home patients and the poor by $ 54

billion, but keep a federal guarantee.

ABORTION Keep most abortions legal. Any ban on late term "partial birth"

abortions needs exceptions to protect the mother's health or life.

LEGAL Pass a "moderate, temporary" cut, limit public benefits to legal

IMMIGRATION immigrants, but make public schools educate undocumented

immigrant children.

NATO, AND Ease Russian fears by delaying the entry of Eastern European

THE U.N.  nations into NATO until at least 1999.

CAMPAIGN Supports an existing bipartisan bill, Says "Our goal is to take

FINANCING the reins of our democracy away from big special interests, from

big money, and to put them back into the hands of ordinary Americans

where they belong."

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION Reduce preferences but expand efforts to encourage women and

minorities to seek government contracts and higher education.

GUN Disarm domestic violence offenders, ban cop-killer bullets,

CONTROL toughen federal penalties for drug traffickers who possess

or criminals who use firearms, restore gun-free safety zones around schools,

and require computerized, instant background checks for would-be

handgun purchasers.

SOCIAL Form a bipartisan commission to save Social Security. Would be

SECURITY willing to consider privatizing the system, but has

reservations. Raised the percentage of Social Security benefits subject

to tax to 85 percent.

TERM No. Says "I share with supporters of congressional term limits

LIMITS their goals to reform our political system and renew our

democracy. I do not, however, believe that term limits are the appropriate

means to achieve this desirable end."

EDUCATION Supports tax credits and deductions for college students, and

permission for states or localities to give vouchers that would

help parents transfer their children from one public school to

another.

PERSONAL

ROBERT J. DOLE

Age 73

Professional: Lawyer

Politics: Kansas House of Representatives 1951-53; Russell County

Attorney 1953-61; U.S.House 1961-68; U.S. Senate 1969-1996; GOP vice

presidential candidate 1976; ran for GOP presidential nomination in

1980 and 1988

TAX CUTS $ 458 billion. Biggest cuts would be rate cuts of 15 percent on

earnings and 50 percent on profits from sale of investments,

and a tax credit for parents of children 18 or under. To pay for it,

auction off the right to use the airwaves, approve spending

restraints that Republicans in Congress endorsed this year, add

new restraints in domestic spending.

BALANCED Favors an amendment, has said his first presidential act would be

BUDGET to call for such an amendment. Was a major figure in budget

stand off with Clinton causing two partial government shutdowns. Amendment

fell one vote short in Senate last year.

MEDICARE Reduce spending by $ 168 billion over six years. Supports

creation of a Medicare reform commission. Would raise Medicare premiums

on wealthy seniors.

MEDICAID Restrain spending by $ 72 billion, and turn it over to the

states.

ABORTION Amend Constitution to ban all abortions except those necessary

to save the mother's life, or in cases of rape or incest.

LEGAL

IMMIGRATION

Pass a "moderate" cut, end public benefits to legal immigrants,

let public schools exclude undocumented immigrant children.

NATO

AND THE U.N.

Despite Russian objections, let Poland, Hungary and the Czech

Republic join NATO in 1998.

CAMPAIGN Favors reforms to be developed by a bipartisan commission. Says

FINANCING foreign money and influence should not outweigh influence of any

American. Would eliminate "soft money" and donations from

corporations or labor unions to federal candidates or parties.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION Prohibit most preferences and encourage the Justice Department

to prosecute public or private discrimination.

GUN Punish criminals who use guns, and require computerized, instant

CONTROL background checks for would-be purchaser of any kind of firearm.

SOCIAL Form a bipartisan commission. Wants to lower the percentage of

SECURITY benefits taxed to 50 percent. Would be willing to consider

privatizing the system, but has reservations.

TERM Would push for a Constitutional amendment that establishes a

LIMITS two-term limit for senators and a six-term limit for House

members.

EDUCATION Supports lower tax burdens that will free up family money for

education, and by helping states provide vouchers to transfer

children from a public school to another public or private

school.

PERSONAL

H. Ross Perot Jr.

Age 65

Professional: Computer, real estate and oil businessman

Politics: Got 19 percent of vote in 1992

TAX CUTS No tax cut until the budget is balanced. Any tax changes should

be recommended by a commission of leading tax authorities, with

a goal of eliminating the IRS and the tax code.

BALANCED Says a constitutional amendment will be needed. Once considered

BUDGET a dodge for politicians and "an excuse not to do anything."

MEDICARE No cuts in spending until the program is reformed. Supports

creation of a Medicare reform commission, but would exclude lawmakers and

pilot-test its recommendations before adoption. Would raise

Medicare premiums on wealthy seniors.

MEDICAID Don't restrain spending until tests of experts' recommendations

show it can be done without harming people.

ABORTIONS Keep most abortions legal.

LEGAL

IMMIGRATION

No reductions in legal immigration if applicants have job skills

or education the country needs.

NATO

AND THE U.N.

Charge allies such as Germany and Japan $ 100 billion a year

for U.S. protection.

CAMPAIGN

FINANCING Would ban all contributions from PACs,corporations, unions or

givers outside a candidate's district. Shorten the campaign season.

Require all candidates to return or donate unspent campaign

money. Give the Federal Election Commission more enforcement

power.

AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION Prohibit most preferences and encourage the Justice Department

to prosecute public or private discrimination.

GUN CONTROL

Impose severe penalties on anyone who uses guns in crimes or

brings them to school, but something more than background checks

should be used to make sure nobody with a criminal record can

purchase any kind of firearm.

SOCIAL

SECURITY Says the wealthy should forgo their benefits so that the

millions of needy Americans who rely on Social Security for their

retirement can survive. Supports investments in the private and

public sectors. Says the percentage of benefits subject to tax

should be decided by a task force.

TERM

LIMITS Yes. Says "74 percent of the American people support term

limits. It is time we passed a constitutional amendment limiting

congressional terms."

EDUCATION Restore control over schools to localities, which should create

more small neighborhood schools, especially in the primary grades,

and should honor teachers and involve parents.


Compiled by Andrew Mollison of the Cox Newspapers Washington Bureau from
information supplied by the Clinton, Dole and Perot campaigns, Project Vote
Smart and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C), 1. Bill Clinton (mug), 2. Robert J. Dole (mug), 3. H. Ross
Perot Jr. (mug)

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              184 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 21, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

GUATEMALA REFUGEES FACING LOSS OF ASYLUM

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1512 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


This is the year that Guatemalan refugees fear will bring an end to their years
of sanctuary in the United States.

A peace accord in their Central American homeland could mean denial of thousands
of political asylum cases before U.S. immigration examiners.

At the same time, a tough law taking effect in April limits appeal rights to
deportation orders and adds hundreds of immigration agents to apprehend
undocumented immigrants and return them to their native country.

"This is causing a lot of worry among our people," said Miguel Angel Chiquil, a
leader of the Organization of Mayan People in Exile. "It's as if we were back in
Guatemala. Our people are fearful of leaving their houses."

The panic showed on the faces of about 250 Guatemalans who gathered in a Lake
Worth church hall last weekend as Chiquil read an open letter to President
Clinton asking for compassion.

"The situation is getting very hot," said Maynor Silvestre, 25, explaining why
he came to the meeting at Sacred Heart Catholic Church. Silvestre left Guatemala
in 1989 and filed for political asylum two years later. The asylum application
gives him a temporary work permit, which he must renew each March.

"I can't make plans for the future," said Silvestre, who lives in Jupiter. "That
depends on what the government decides to do with me."

Silvestre has a credit card, a paid-for used car and an $ 18,000-a-year job
working in carpentry. He says he's accustomed to Pizza Hut and McDonalds and
would find it hard to readapt to his native Guatemala.

He's among the estimated 13,000 to 15,000 Guatemalans who have settled in Palm
Beach and Martin counties in the past 15 years. Nearly all entered this country
over the Mexican border without visas and filed asylum applications to get work
permits.

The round-up of 125 Guatemalan farm workers last month and rumors of more sweeps
to come is giving deportation jitters to refugees such as Chiquil - who's been
waiting for six years for a decision on his political asylum application.

The immigrants also face an April 1 law that limits the legal rights of
undocumented immigrants and makes detentions and deportations easier.

"It will be a very different world on April 1," said Elissa McGovern, an
attorney for the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington, D.C.,
which represents private immigration attorneys.

"There are more hurdles to jump through and there is virtually no judicial
review of a decision made by an INS officer or an immigration judge," McGovern
said.

For the tens of thousands of refugees in South Florida who have political asylum
cases pending, the most threatening change is the loss of their rights to delay
deportation if their asylum pleas are rejected.

For years, undocumented immigrants - including Guatemalans, Haitians and
Nicaraguans - were able to file for suspension of deportation and sit back and
wait for years while the appeal was heard. Under the new law, they can appeal
only if they have lived in the United States for 10 years and can prove that
removal would create an "exceptional and extremely unusual" hardship to a family
member who is a legal resident of the United States.

The change is important because denials of asylum claims are expected to
increase due to the reduction of guerrilla warfare and civil disturbances in
Central America and Haiti. The great majority of the 60,000 asylum cases pending
before the Miami Asylum Office come from those regions.

"Obviously, any time you have an improvement in human rights conditions in a
country, it makes it more difficult for an applicant to qualify for asylum,"
said Erich Cauller, director of the asylum office that reviews cases filed in
Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.

"By and large, it's becoming increasingly difficult to qualify," Cauller said.

Only about one in four asylum claims filed in Cauller's office is approved. At
that rate, 46,200 of the 60,000 immigrants seeking asylum can reasonably expect
deportation orders.

Last week, the U.S. Department of Immigration and Naturalization Service
announced that the asylum cases for tens of thousands of Guatemalans and El
Salvadorans will be reviewed beginning in April - the same time the new
immigration law takes effect. The applicants had been in a class of refugees
protected from deportation since 1990.

"It's going to have hard consequences," said Carol Wolchok, director of the
American Bar Association's Center for Immigration Law and Representation. "A lot
of people here for many years who have had families grow up in this country are
probably going to see their cases denied."

The lifting of the temporary protected status affects 152,000 El Salvadorans and
84,000 Guatemalans who entered the country before October 1990, said INS
spokesman Brian Jordan. Improvement in hostile conditions in those countries is
part of the reason for the INS decision to proceed with the cases, he said.

For Haitian refugees in the United States, their country's return to democracy
more than two years ago brought mixed blessings.  Haiti's continued economic
problems persuaded virtually all of its refugees to stay put.

Community leaders say an estimated 5,000 to 7,000 Haitians without legal
residency are in Palm Beach County, unwilling to return.

Some Guatemalans concede that even if it's safe to return home, there are other
reasons to justify staying in the United States. Chiquil, a bus driver for a
nonprofit social service agency, says Guatemala's chances for stability are
better if the refugees stay in the United States. If refugees return, he
reasons, they will contribute to unemployment there and no longer be able to
send money from the outside to boost the economy.

To get their arguments across to politicians and the public, the Guatemalans of
Palm Beach County are taking a first-ever step. They are organizing a campaign
they hope will put a face on the plight of the Guatemalan refugee.

One goal of the campaign is to refute the argument heard in Congress and
elsewhere that refugees in the United States take jobs from citizens or live off
welfare.

"Our people rise at 4 a.m. to work in the fields until 7 p.m. at night, working
in the sun and the rain," said Jose Luis Perez, who sits on the board of the
Organization of Mayan People in Exile. The jobs filled by refugees are not
wanted by Americans, he said.

"It's a slap at our dignity to say we're here to collect welfare," said Perez, a
legal resident who came to the United States in 1984 and graduated from Brandeis
University. "For this reason, our people feel strongly that we should organize
and resist."

PULLING THE WELCOME MAT

The Illegal Immigration Reform Act of 1996

Signed by President Clinton on Sept. 30, the law is one of the toughest in
decades on undocumented immigrants. It doubles the number of U.S. Border Patrol
agents to 10,000 in five years and adds 300 investigators to combat smuggling
illegal immigrants and the hiring of undocumented workers. The law gives $ 150
million for detention and removal of deportable aliens and $ 12 million to build
fences along the Mexican border.

Among the changes for immigrants seeking political asylum:

Immigrants who claim political asylum must make application within one year of
their arrival in the United States. Previously, immigrants had 20 years to
apply.

Immigrants denied political asylum will be deported unless they can show
"exceptional and extremely unusual" hardship upon a member of their family who
is a legal resident. Previously, the hardship test was easier and could apply to
the applicant.

Immigrants entering the country and claiming political asylum must convince an
immigration officer on the spot of their asylum claim or be refused entry. If
convincing, the immigrant will be detained pending a hearing. Previously,
immigrants were routinely admitted if they claimed political asylum and released
without detention.

Immigrants living in the United States without documents for a year or more will
not be allowed to re-enter the United States with any type of visa for at least
10 years. Previously, deported immigrants could apply at any time for re-entry.

Political Asylum

The cessation of civil unrest in Guatemala, Haiti and Nicaragua makes it more
difficult for asylum applicants to argue a fear of persecution if they return
home. Although each asylum case is heard on its own merits, the stability of a
country is a major factor in rulings. The Miami Asylum Office is reviewing
60,000 claims and is granting asylum in about 25 percent of the cases.
Ninety-five percent of the applicants are from Haiti, Guatemala, Cuba,
Nicaragua, Peru, Colombia or El Salvador.

Immigration Round-ups

The Border Patrol's apprehension of 125 farm workers in a roadside stop last
month raised speculation that mass round-ups of undocumented immigrants are on
the way. Border Patrol officials say they are getting tougher on smuggling rings
and criminal aliens, but do not see a major increase in immigration sweeps this
year.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text. Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W), 1. (C) Maynor Silvestre (mug), 2. (B&W) E.A. KENNEDY
III/Staff Photographer, Miguel Angel Chiquil (center), a leader of the
Organization of Mayan People in Exile, opens a Guatemalan community gathering
with a moment of silence for their countrymen who have died in the Central
American nation's civil war. About 250 immigrants attended.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              185 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  February 12, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SHAW: CONGRESS MAY EXTEND WELFARE HELP TO REFUGEES

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 250 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr., chairman of the House panel that drafted the welfare
reform law, said Tuesday that Congress might be willing to meet President
Clinton halfway on providing cash payments to refugees applying for citizenship.

Under the welfare law Clinton signed last summer, refugees lose Supplemental
Security Income (SSI) benefits after five years. But because it takes at least
five years for refugees to become citizens, the Clinton administration last week
urged Congress to extend the cutoff to seven years to cover those in the process
of becoming citizens.

Addressing a leadership conference here of the American Jewish Committee, Shaw,
a Republican from Fort Lauderdale, said Congress might be willing to extend the
time limit to six years to take care of those refugees in the final stages of
becoming American citizens. A House Ways and Means Committee staff member
estimated the change would cost less than $ 1 billion.

But Shaw held out little hope that Congress would restore more than $ 13 billion
in benefits to elderly or disabled immigrants receiving SSI payments. He said a
new report by the Social Security Administration indicated that 51 percent of
the elderly receiving SSI benefits are noncitizens.

The principal reason so many elderly SSI beneficiaries are not citizens, Shaw
said, is because many naturalized citizens bring their elderly parents into the
United States under family reunification visas and then fail to provide for
their financial care.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              186 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 19, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

COUNTY SIERRA CLUB TO TACKLE IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The county's Sierra Club is getting into the immigration debate on the premise
that America's environment may be better off with fewer people tramping on it.

Hoping to draw attention to the issue, the Sierra Club invited Roy Beck, author
of The Case Against Immigration, to speak at its monthly meeting Tuesday night.

"There is a lot of undercurrent that we need to address this issue," said David
Caulkett, program coordinator for the Loxahatchee Sierra Club that represents
members from Boca Raton to Jupiter.

Club Chairman Gary Lehnertz of Boynton Beach said he hopes the group will be at
the forefront to convince its national leaders to speak out about immigration.

Sierra Club rules prohibit anyone speaking for the club to take a position on
immigration levels or immigration policy, said Karen Kalla, the Sierra Club's
director of population programs in Washington, D.C.

"Very often people look at easy solutions, such as shutting the border," Kalla
said. Instead, the club should look at how it can help immigrants "improve their
lives and make their environment a safer place," she said.

Kalla acknowledged a "wide range of views" on immigration among the membership.

The Sierra Club's non-position on immigration could change next year. The club's
600,000 members will have a chance to vote on population policies, including
immigration, in national balloting on club issues.

Caulkett, former chairman of the Broward Sierra Club, said he became interested
in immigration after returning to South Florida after a 10-year absence.

"I was pretty much shocked at the increase in population down here, particularly
foreign born," said Caulkett, who lives in Delray Beach.

Carolyn Zimmerman, a Sierra Club member and president of the Haitian-American
Community Council of Delray Beach, said she sees nothing wrong with Sierra Club
jumping into the immigration debate.

"When you overcrowd a country, that certainly affects the environment," she
said.

Beck, who lives in Washington, D.C., said Tuesday's appearance was his first
before a national environmental group. He said the organization should
acknowledge the consequences of 1 million immigrants ballooning the country's
population each each year.

"When an organization of that caliber refuses to react to the biggest threat to
the environment, it discredits the entire environmental movement," Beck said.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              187 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 23, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS LEGALLY IN U.S. FACING DEPORTATION

BYLINE: EVAN PEREZ

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A one-month journey, punctuated by frightening rides in packed rickety buses and
sleepless nights in motels in strange cities, brought Maria to the United
States.

She paid $ 2,000 in 1988 so she could be smuggled across the Rio Grande at
Brownsville, Texas, and then took a Greyhound bus to Miami. Thousands of
Nicaraguans fleeing the Contra Wars of the 1980s that ravaged their country have
settled in Miami.

Maria, like countless others, was seeking a new life in what she considered a
paradise. Four years later, she paid the same sum so her 8-year-old daughter
could join her.

State news

Now, the two are in hiding - afraid to leave their small two-bedroom apartment
in suburban Miami. The 39-year-old domestic worker has received notice she will
be deported.

Her daughter, now 13, doesn't remember much of Nicaragua, but her status is tied
to her mother's.

"I feel hunted, like there's always someone who can snatch us and handcuff us
and take us to jail," said Maria, who asked that her real name and that of her
daughter and husband not be used.

She has her mail delivered at a friend's house. Believing she would one day be
like any American, she dreamed of owning a home and getting a better job once
she learned English. Now, fear dominates her life.

It's a fate awaiting more than 40,000 Nicaraguans in the Miami area, says
immigration attorney Anna Navarro, who represents Maria and her daughter.

"We're going to have an entire society underground," she says.

She took advantage of a Reagan administration-era program to receive work
permits.

Like tens-of-thousands of Nicaraguans who fled the U.S.-sponsored war in their
homeland, Maria enjoyed a special status successive U.S. governments granted -
not quite legal residents but not quite illegal.

And after years of living in immigration limbo, she also took advantage of a
program established in 1995 for people who had lived in the United States for
seven years, in an attempt to gain permanent resident status.

But the rules were changed seven years after democracy returned to Central
America's largest country, and now she faces deportation.

Congress has toughened eligibility, requiring 10 years of residence instead of
seven and making hardship cases harder to prove.

Navarro, who represents about two dozen Nicaraguans facing deportation, says the
U.S. government betrayed people like Maria, allowing them to establish roots in
this country - some have U.S.-born children and own homes - and now trying to
force them out.

"There was always this recognition that the Nicaraguan case was unique," Navarro
says. "The Contra Wars were directly financed by the U.S. government. Now
halfway through the process the rules change, leaving the majority of people
ineligible."

She said the American government should keep its word.

INS officials say they are only following the rules established by Congress and
by the Department of Justice.

"I empathize with their dilemma," said Brian Jordan, an INS spokesman in
Washington. "There is no longer an air of persecution in Nicaragua. We're not
trying to be unkind. We have to enforce the law."

Jordan says an estimated 200,000 Nicaraguans live in South Florida but he didn't
know how many have been served with deportation papers. The agency has no plans
for mass deportations or roundups, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
State news

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Maria, a 39-year-old domestic
worker, sits with her daughter during a meeting with her lawyer. The Nicaraguan
was sent a notice she will be deported.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              188 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 5, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

TEACHERS UNLOCK IMMIGRANTS' DREAMS

BYLINE: Ellie Lingner

SECTION: LIVING, Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 513 words


They're from Haiti and Honduras, Colombia, Thailand and Jamaica. Their names
sound exotic: Luz, Javier, Pavinee.

They are men and women with dreams and drive, seated this night in a semicircle
on children's chairs at tiny tables in a schoolroom filled with simple letters
and numbers and brightly colored pictures.

They worked all day landscaping golf courses or cleaning kitchens. Then they
clean up, dress up and come to learn English.

Every night of the week at schools throughout Palm Beach County, immigrants
wanting to fit in and get ahead are painstakingly stretching their minds in
classes called ESOL, English for Speakers of Other Languages.

"These people have a tremendous respect for education and for teachers," says
Marrilee Highfield, assistant principal for community education at Congress
Community Middle School in Boynton Beach. "A lot of value is placed on education
in their cultures."

Teachers who conduct the most basic ESOL classes speak only in English and must
rely on lots of movement and acting, says Pierre Rock of Boynton Beach, who by
day works as a psychologist's translator for the school system and by night
teaches English at Poinciana Elementary School.

Rock left Haiti for America 25 years ago. Teaching how to address an envelope,
count money and fill out a job application is his way of giving something back
to the community, Highfield says.

Some hear about the ESOL classes from friends and neighbors at church or the
local grocery store. Some have no literacy skills. Others have skills and
education that must be translated into English and adapted to their new
homeland.

It takes a high level of understanding to deal with things such as taxes and
social services. Without a command of the language, they are easily taken
advantage of, Highfield says.

Initially, Highfield offered the ESOL classes at Congress Middle School, but she
quickly realized that she needed to take the program closer to the people. For
many of them, transportation is a problem and they are not comfortable leaving
their neighborhoods, she says.

Recently, Forest Park Elementary School officials asked Highfield to start an
ESOL class for the parents of their students.

Young children learn English quickly and easily in school, she says. That gives
them tremendous power in the family.

Parents depend on the students as translators, and often the students learn to
manipulate adults. Children may tell their parents that "F" is a good grade in
America or that a regular school day is a school holiday. It becomes absolutely
essential for the parents to learn English.

And so Luz and Pavinee and Javier struggle to express themselves when teacher
Carol Bowling asks about their dreams. To be a doctor, lawyer, pastor,
architect, bank president car dealer, family therapist, they say.

But first they know they must learn English.

"This problem is not going away," Highfield says. "It's getting bigger and
bigger."

If you know someone who might be interested in ESOL, call 369-7077 for the
location of the nearest class.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, Marrilee Highfield leads
the program to teach English to immigrants.

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              189 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 16, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

NO OTHER NATION SO LIBERAL IN BENEFITS FOR IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 284 words


The recent letter "Resident aliens pay their way" lumps Social Security together
with unemployment insurance and welfare. They are different programs.

The writer's husband will be eligible for a Social Security pension at age 62 if
he works at least 10 years under the system. If he returns to England, he will
still get his pension. While working, he is also building up protection for
himself and his family in the event of disability or death, much like private
insurance. If he were to lose his job, he should be eligible for unemployment
insurance while looking for other work.

My spouse is also from England. Her elderly father worked here for years and has
received a U.S. Social Security check while living in Rio de Janeiro, as has his
wife, who never worked a day in the United States. So, in some ways the program
is quite liberal, perhaps too much so.

Supplemental Security Income, by contrast, is a massive federal welfare program
that since its inception in 1974 has been subject to many abuses by both
citizens and noncitizens, prompting recent legislation to tighten loopholes.
While the program has many merits, it is a system under which thousands of new
immigrants were able to get on SSI and receive monthly checks and full
socialized medicine (Medicaid) while 35 million Americans, many of them
children, were without health insurance.

While recognizing that most of our noncitizens are productive and an asset to
this country, I can't help but wonder how many of our citizens could go to some
foreign country and go on their dole.

Donald M. Flynn

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: Donald M. Flynn worked for the Social Security Administration
from 1966 to 1987.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              190 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 26, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CLOSE DOOR TO IMMIGRANTS FOR A WHILE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 131 words


According to a recent Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, a majority of Americans
support a five-year ban on all legal immigration. Why doesn't the federal
government act?

Most immigrants are good people, and the United States wants to be hospitable,
but Americans also want balanced budgets, lower taxes and less poverty. Should
immigrants get jobs when so many of our citizens are unemployed? Low wages paid
to immigrants drove down the wages of competing workers and resulted in losses
of $ 133 billion to U.S. workers in 1996, according to the Federation for
American Immigration Reform. The cost to taxpayers for our hospitality is
estimated at $ 65 billion a year.

Even the White House may have to limit its hospitality. So must the nation.

Elvira Brigg

Palm City

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              191 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 8, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW FORCES FOREIGNERS OUT OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Foreigners attending public schools on student visas are being forced out of
classes because of a new federal law that denies free education to the visa
holders.

No new enrollments are being accepted by the Palm Beach County School District,
school officials said. The estimated 500 students already in classes will
remain, at least until the end of the current school year.

Congress passed the new rules last November in an immigration reform package.
The major change for student-visa holders is a requirement that they enroll in
private schools.

The law does not affect exchange students, students on visitor visas or children
of undocumented immigrants.

Under the federal regulations on student visas, high school students already
enrolled can stay through the current year, but will be limited to only one
additional year in a public school. For that extra year they must pay tuition,
estimated at about $ 5,000 for Florida schools.

The law prevents school boards from waiving the tuition.

Students in elementary and middle school can stay through the eighth grade, but
their visas would be voided if they leave the country, even for vacations.

Students attending adult education classes operated by public schools must leave
at the end of the current year.

About 40 students at the school board's Adult Education Center at Okeechobee
Boulevard and Military Trail are affected by the law, school officials said.

The federal government no longer issues student visas for elementary or adult
education applicants unless they plan to enroll in private schools.

"What's going to happen is that those students who used to come to the United
States to go to kindergarten to eighth grade in public schools will not be able
to get visas," said Bill Strassburger, a spokesman for the Justice Department's
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.

"That would not preclude them from going to a private school."

Students who enter with the intent of enrolling in a private school and switch
to public schools will lose their visas and be barred from returning to the
United States for five years, he said.

The Palm Beach County school district is no longer taking applications for
student visas until more is known about how the law will be applied, said Delia
Pinto, who works with foreign students in the district's Department of
International Student Support and Multicultural Awareness.

Pinto said enforcement of the law is the federal government's responsibility,
not the school district's.

"We do not police them. We do not report them. That's not our job," Pinto said.

"We are not denying anyone an entrance into our system."

Last year, the school district had 263 students with visas enrolled in
kindergarten through 12th grade and another 238 in adult education classes, she
said.

Pinto said that at this time, the school district will allow student-visa
holders enrolled in elementary school to remain through the fifth grade because
their visas were approved for that period of time.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              192 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 11, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 224 words


PALM BEACH GARDENS - A man arriving home was shot in the face and leg Friday
night after two men ordered him to turn over money he didn't have, police said.
Edward Lohman, 40, arrived home just before midnight when two men approached him
in front of his house at 4413 Dawn Ridge St. After the shooting, the men fled.
Police had no suspects Saturday. Lohman was in critical condition Saturday night
at St. Mary's Medical Center.

PALM BEACH - Thirteen illegal immigrants who traveled from China to Florida by
boat were arrested and sent to a Miami detainment camp Saturday after they came
ashore near The Breakers hotel Friday night, border patrol officials said. Palm
Beach police got a call at about 11 p.m. Friday from someone who said several
people had gotten off a 24-foot boat and were running toward the town. After
arresting the immigrants, all of them men, border patrol officials learned
through interpreters that they had traveled separately from China to the
Bahamas, where they were grouped together for a trip to Florida. One of the
boat's captains, Stephen Alleyne, 24, was arrested as well, for a fraudulent
boat registration, a felony, authorities said. But a second captain wasn't
found. Alleyne, described by police as a Bahamian, listed 4816-C Orleans Court
in West Palm Beach as his address on his driver license.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              193 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 18, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

STUDY: IMMIGRANTS GOOD FOR ECONOMY

BYLINE: ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1127 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration produces substantial economic benefits for the United States as a
whole but slightly reduces the wages and job opportunities of low-skilled
American workers, especially high school dropouts, the National Academy of
Sciences said Saturday.

In an authoritative report on one of the more explosive issues facing social
scientists and politicians, the panel concluded that immigration added perhaps $
10 billion a year to the United States' economic output. "Those who buy goods
and services produced by immigrant labor also benefit," it said, because prices
are lower than they would otherwise be.

The panel said that the job prospects of low-skilled native-born workers were
sometimes hurt by competition with immigrants and that the incomes of
native-born workers tended to fall as a result.

But, it said, the effects are relatively small and are not concentrated in the
areas where immigrants live. Rather, the effects are dispersed across the United
States, in part because low-skilled native-born workers move to other areas of
the country in search of jobs.

However, the cost of public services does tend to be higher in areas with large
numbers of immigrants, the panel said.

The academy's report is a sober, systematic assessment of the economic and
budgetary effects of immigration - the most comprehensive investigation of the
issue to date. It concludes that immigration is neither a panacea for the
nation's economic problems, as some suggest, nor a source of huge costs, as
others contend.

The panel consisted of 12 experts in economics, demography and sociology, led by
James P. Smith, an economist at Rand Corp., a research organization in Santa
Monica, Calif. The study was requested by the U.S. Commission on Immigration
Reform, which advises Congress on immigration policy.

Smith said: "It's true that some Americans are now paying more taxes because of
immigration, and native-born Americans without a high school education have seen
their wages fall slightly because of the competition sparked by lower-skilled,
newly arrived immigrants. But the vast majority of Americans are enjoying a
healthier economy as a result of the increased supply of labor and lower prices
that result from immigration."

The academy panel said it was surprised by one finding: None of the available
evidence suggests that blacks have been especially hurt by immigration or by
competition with immigrants.

To be sure, it said, "some black workers have lost their jobs to immigrants,"
especially in places like New York City and Los Angeles, where they compete for
the same jobs. But immigration does not have a decisive influence on the
economic opportunities of blacks, because most blacks do not live in places with
large concentrations of immigrants, it said.

Congress last year sharply cut back the federal benefits available to legal
immigrants, on the assumption that such immigrants cost the government more than
they paid in taxes.

The academy concluded that immigrants have "a negative fiscal impact at the
state and local level, but a larger positive impact at the federal level,
resulting in an overall positive impact for the United States" in the long run.

In budget terms, the panel said, immigrant households are costly at first,
mainly because of the public education costs they impose on state and local
governments. But in 15 or 20 years, it said, immigrants produce fiscal benefits
as they finish school, start working and begin to pay income and payroll taxes.

The panel measured the fiscal burden of immigrants in two states. In New Jersey,
it said, a native-born household pays an average of $ 232 a year in state and
local taxes to cover the net cost of services used by immigrants, while the
comparable figure for California is $ 1,178 a year.

But, the panel said, the fiscal impact of immigrants overall is positive,
because they tend to arrive as young workers and "will help pay the public costs
of the aging baby-boom generation."

Thus, it said, "state and local investments in education pay off in higher tax
payments later in life." Those revenues include federal taxes that help pay for
Social Security and Medicare.

"However, annual estimates of immigrants' impact on state and local taxpayers
may be inflated and should not be used to predict the long-term costs of
admitting new immigrants," the panel cautioned. "These calculations do not
indicate how much immigrants and their children will pay in taxes or how they
will use public services over their lifetimes."

New Jersey and California both have large numbers of immigrants, but the fiscal
effects differ. Thomas Espenshade, a panel member who is a professor of
sociology at Princeton University, said that in the 1990 census, immigrants
accounted for 13 percent of the population in New Jersey but 22 percent in
California. And, he said, the typical immigrant in New Jersey is better educated
than the typical immigrant in California.

In New Jersey, the panel said, the average household headed by an immigrant
receives $ 1,484 a year more in state and local services than it pays in state
and local taxes. In California the comparable figure is $ 3,463.

On the average, the panel said, immigrant households have more school-age
children and lower incomes, pay lower state and local taxes, and receive more
state-financed social services than households of native-born Americans.

Describing the economic benefits of immigration, the panel said: "Immigrants
increase the supply of labor and help produce new goods and services. But since
they are paid less than the total value of these new goods and services,
domestic workers as a group must gain."

Effects of immigration

The report also made these observations about immigration:

BOOSTING U.S. POPULATION - If immigration continues at current levels, it will
account for nearly two-thirds of the nation's expected population growth in the
next half-century. The population is expected to rise by 124 million, to 387
million in 2050 from 263 million in 1995. If immigration continued at current
levels, immigrants and their descendants would account for 80 million of the
increase.

WIDENING WAGE GAP - The gap between the wages of immigrants and the wages of
native-born workers is widening. Many recent immigrants come from poorer
countries, where the average levels of education, wages and skills are far below
those of the United States.

MORE HIGH SCHOOL DROPOUTS - Immigration has contributed to an increase in the
number of high school dropouts in the United States, and this increase has
"lowered the wages of high school dropouts by about 5 percent - that is, about
44 percent of the total decline in wages of high school dropouts" from 1980 to
1994.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              194 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 21, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SUFFER PIECEMEAL POLICY

BYLINE: Howard Kleinberg

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 594 words


'Tut, tut, child," said the Duchess to Alice. "Everything's got a moral if only
you can find it." This message should reach beyond Alice in Wonderland, but in
the sinuous wanderings of immigration decrees, it doesn't.

Two cases of immigration disarray surfaced last week that beg the question: Does
the government's right hand know what the left hand is doing?

A boatload of Cuban refugees casts itself ashore on a barren Bahamian rock pile
- suitably called Dog Rocks - 125 miles south of Miami.

Over three weeks of deprivation, three died, two set out in a handmade raft for
help and were not heard from again, and six others were rescued by the U.S.
Coast Guard and brought to the United States.

On Friday, President Clinton decreed that the six survivors - three women and
three female children - could remain in the U.S.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service official, possibly seeking to deflect
humane credit from the president, said they most likely would have been accepted
anyway, since rafters who reach the U.S. usually are, and these reached our
shores courtesy of the Coast Guard.

Contrast that with this immigration story:

The mother of a 7-year-old American citizen was given five minutes to get packed
and on a plane to Nicaragua after living illegally in the United States for 11
years. Her husband is also a U.S. citizen.

She was 17 years old when she entered the U.S. from Mexico, along with her two
brothers who were fleeing Nicaraguan conscription.

During the past 11 years, she had sought political asylum - she fled Nicaragua
during the Sandinista-Contra unpleasantness - but did not show up at an INS
hearing in 1986 and was on a list to have been deported.

The fact that it took 11 years to deport her is rationalized by the INS in that
its priority is to rid this nation of criminal immigrants.

Presumably, then, all the criminal immigrants have been deported, and now it is
the turn of Carla Sanabria. Her American, 7-year-old child remains behind with
her Puerto Rican-born stepfather.

No case is intended here to demand the return of Mrs. Sanabria to her child and
husband in the U.S., nor am I campaigning to bundle up the Cuban refugees from
Dog Island and ship them back - either to certain death on Dog Island or certain
fulmination in Cuba.

All I'm suggesting is that the United States needs to develop some sort of
consistency in American immigration policy. It is a policy today that is guided
by whim, internal political pressure, external minority pressure and
pathos-oriented media reports.

If the Cubans who were rescued from Dog Rocks had instead been picked up under
sail by the Coast Guard, current U.S. policy dictates they be repatriated to
Cuba.

If Mrs. Sanabria had been dealt with the day she illegally entered this country
with her two draft-age brothers, instead of being left to grow up in this
country, get married and have a child, then her story wouldn't create such
compassion.

We have, as a nation, groped unsuccessfully for a satisfactory immigration
policy. Probably, most immigration cases are cut and dried, but those that are
uncommon glow in the spotlight and set the standard by which we judge
guidelines.

How can anyone not sympathize with a mother of an American child being hustled
out of the United States on far shorter notice that we gave Nazi war criminals
who filtered into our society?

Somewhere there is a moral to this story - if only we can find it.

Howard Kleinberg, a former editor of the Miami News, is a columnist for Cox
Newspapers.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              195 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 21, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SHARE IMMIGRATION COST

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 301 words


The headline on the front page of Sunday's Post got it right: "Study: Immigrants
good for the economy." But that's on balance.

The article reported on the findings of a study of legal immigration by 12
experts under the auspices of the private, not-for-profit National Academy of
Sciences. Opponents of open borders say immigrants run up the cost of schools
and other services and displace native-born Americans in low-wage jobs. The
study found that the opponents are right. Supporters say immigrants pay taxes
and add to the national economy. Supporters are right, too.

When the costs for education and social services are counted against the
short-term boost to the economy - about $ 10 billion a year - and long-term
contributions of immigrants to Social Security and federal taxes, the ledger
shows a profit from immigration.

In our federal system, however, state and local taxes pay most school costs, and
states pick up lots of the costs for social services. States with large
immigrant populations - Florida, California, Texas and New York - pay the most.
So taxpayers make the initial investment in immigrants.

The national economy and Washington rake in the profits. In all fairness, the
original investors should get their money back before the profits are divided.
That's why Florida sued the federal government over immigration costs. But the
ability to profit on someone else's investment explains why Washington doesn't
feel an urgency to treat the costs as a serious problem.

It's a remake of an old story: If my factory pollutes the river in which you
fish, you have the problem, not I. Three decades of environmental laws are
changing that old story. The remake should be handled the same way. Everyone
who's in on the immigration profits should pay a share of the costs.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              196 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 24, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 302 words


WEST PALM BEACH - The federal criminal trial for Palm Beach attorney Paul
Prosperi was delayed two months Friday because Prosperi's lawyer withdrew from
the case. Attorney Richard Lubin told U.S. District Judge Kenneth Ryskamp he
could not work on Prosperi's defense because he has too many other cases. A Fort
Lauderdale lawyer, Roma Theus, is taking Lubin's place, but the trial, which had
been tentatively scheduled for July, has now been delayed until Sept. 15.
Prosperi, 48, was indicted last year on charges of mail fraud, money laundering
and filing false tax returns. He is accused of stealing more than $ 8 million
from an Irish couple he represented. Defense lawyers also must take a sworn
statement from one of the victims, 84-year-old Patrick Donovan, by June 30, the
judge ruled.

WEST PALM BEACH - A federal grand jury has charged a West Palm Beach man with
conspiring to smuggle 13 Chinese immigrants into Palm Beach illegally. Stephen
Alleyne, 24, of 4816 Orleans Court, West Palm Beach, was arrested on May 9, the
night border patrol officers say he co-captained a powerboat that beached off
Palm Beach carrying the Chinese immigrants, who had been picked up in Freeport,
Bahamas. The immigrants were picked up that night by border agents after the
boat was grounded and they were told by Alleyne and another man to jump into the
water and run to shore, the indictment says.

Lawyers for the Lorillard Tobacco Co. plan to take a sworn statement from U.S.
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., next month as part of the company's defense in the
state's billion-dollar lawsuit against the tobacco industry. The deposition of
Graham, who also served two terms as Florida's governor, is scheduled to be
videotaped in Washington on June 13, according to court papers filed in West
Palm Beach on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              197 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 25, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

CENTRAL AMERICA FEELING INS CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: JUANITA DARLING

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1046 words

DATELINE: SANTA ELENA, EL SALVADOR


In the dozen years of combat connected with the U.S.-backed civil war in this
nation, this steamy town of cobblestone streets was racked by violence, poverty
and despair. One by one, the teachers' college, the coffee-processing plant and
the nearby cotton gin all shut down. And soon Santa Elena was left with no jobs
and no cash crops.

For many families, migration became the only way to survive. Townsfolk felt they
had no choice but to send family members to "Los Estados" - the United States -
to find jobs so they could send money home.

Now, a recent study shows, migrants support 42 percent of the families here,
offering them ways to thrive and rebuild their lives.

But in Santa Elena and across Central America, hope suddenly is running out.

Tighter U.S. immigration laws, which took effect April 1, combined with
stepped-up American deportation efforts and general anti-immigrant sentiment,
are shutting off the escape valve that allowed Central Americans to flee the
wars of the 1980s and the economic upheaval of the decade that has followed.

Salvadorans and Guatemalans in Los Angeles, Nicaraguans in Miami and Hondurans
in Texas and Louisiana are all being pushed out and are complaining loudly in
the United States.

Meantime, the migrants' home countries are steeling themselves for a twofold
economic disaster: Officials envision a deluge of job-seekers in nations whose
unemployment rates already approach 50 percent, as in Nicaragua; they also fear
the loss of the billions of dollars that migrants send home, sums that, for
example, represent the biggest single source of foreign-exchange revenue in El
Salvador.

Further, more than one-third of the Central American deportees in the last six
months were criminals, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service figures show.

That means that, besides the other woes, the Central American nations must
grapple with hardened criminals who will be dumped onto their shores - at a time
when their police forces already are overwhelmed by postwar crime waves.

Besides the convicted criminals, about 300,000 former war refugees - who have
lived in the United States legally while their political asylum claims were
processed - face almost certain denial of asylum now that combat in their
homelands has ended. (A Miami judge, however, has temporarily halted
deportations of former refugees.)

An unknown number of undocumented immigrants also fear deportation as the INS
works toward its goal of sending 93,000 foreigners home this year - one-third
more than in 1996.

In the six months ending March 31, Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala ranked
right behind Mexico in the number of citizens returned by the INS. Although
Central America accounted for 12 percent of the total, far less than Mexico's 74
percent, the effect of the deportations is much greater in these countries,
which are smaller than many American states, researchers said.

In his recent meeting with Central American leaders, President Clinton promised
that there will be no mass deportations of Central Americans.

But individual deportations already are tearing apart families. Carla Sanabria,
for example, lived in Miami for 12 years under the special status given
Nicaraguans fleeing the civil war that ended in her country in 1990.

She finished high school and, for the last eight years, worked as a waitress,
supporting herself and her 6-year-old son. Two years ago, she married a U.S.
citizen. He suggested that his wife change her precarious refugee status for
residency as the spouse of a citizen. They hired a lawyer and paid him more than
$ 1,000 to process the paperwork, Sanabria said. But on April 29, when she
thought she was going to the INS office to pick up her new resident-alien card,
she was deported to Nicaragua.

"I felt like a cockroach," she said tearfully.

The INS refuses to comment on individual cases.

The $ 20 in Sanabria's billfold barely covered the taxi fare to her hometown of
Masaya, about an hour from the airport, where she tried to remember the address
of grandparents she had not seen in more than a decade.

"There is a poverty here that I never imagined," she said of Nicaragua. "What
will happen to my son if he comes here?"

As for Central American countries, many of them are fretting about what will
become of many of their people who have come to rely on migrants to help relieve
the grinding poverty in the region via money they send home - "remittances."

"Thank God, remittances have started to become a significant source of foreign
exchange," said Leida Samra de Pinto, who heads the economic studies department
at Honduras' central bank. "To an extent, they have substituted for foreign
aid," which has dropped sharply since the wars in neighboring countries ended.

Remittances to Honduras doubled from 1993 to 1996, reaching $ 128 million - but
that was still only a fraction of what Salvadorans sent home. In El Salvador,
where as many as 1 million Salvadorans may have fled abroad during the war
years, remittances account for 13 percent of the total economy, providing a
stunning sum estimated to exceed $ 1 billion.

As important as that money has become to the struggling national economies of
Central America, it has become critical to communities like Santa Elena.

This town, population 4,621, attracted some attention in the '70s and '80s
because it was a port of entry for foreign correspondents to slip into guerrilla
territory and was the site of a 1982 massacre, in which soldiers marched 27
residents into the central plaza and gunned them down.

The regional tumult took a heavy toll on the local economy, especially forcing
the young to seek freedom and opportunity overseas. Anadesi Quintana, for
example, fled to Los Angeles, where, for 13 years, she has cleaned houses. She
has saved enough to buy two lots and to build two houses in her hometown, while
sending her aging mother here $ 200 a month.

"She has never forgotten me, not a single month," Rosa Maria Parada, 71, said
proudly, rocking her chair in the spacious living room of one of her daughter's
houses.

Quintana and her common-law husband now have two U.S.-born children, and she has
told her mother that she soon expects to win legal resident status in America.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              198 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               June 25, 1997, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MAN REPLACED BY CHEAP LABOR GETS REVENGE

BYLINE: JILL TAYLOR

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: HOBE SOUND


A tip from a construction worker who couldn't get a job led U.S. Border Patrol
agents and Martin sheriff's deputies to the Red Carpet Inn in Hobe Sound early
Tuesday, where 63 suspected illegal immigrants were taken into custody.

Border Patrol officials contacted the sheriff's office last week after a worker
called to complain he was denied a job because undocumented laborers were
working for less money on a housing project at Indian Street and Willoughby
Boulevard.

Border Patrol agent in charge Art Bullock said there is a "wage war" knocking
American citizens out of construction jobs.

Bullock said the investigation is not complete and he doesn't know whether there
would be any penalties against the contractor.

Sheriff's Capt. Robert Pryor said it appears the men came to Martin County after
hearing about available jobs, and they probably planned to move on when the work
was finished.

Deputies and federal agents found counterfeit Social Security and immigration
cards in about 16 rooms the workers were living in - some rooms with up to nine
men sharing one efficiency unit.

The workers, including 47 Mexicans and 16 from other countries, were turned over
to federal officials for detention and eventual deportation.

Staff writer Bill Douthat contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              199 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 3, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

WHAT I LOVE ABOUT AMERICA;
SEVEN IMMIGRANTS TALK ABOUT WHY THEY CAME

SECTION: ACCENT, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1086 words


These days, there is no New World. No longer are there continents of virgin soil
or Manifest Destiny. Few lures still exist like the ones that first brought
explorers and adventure-seekers to this land with only their lofty hopes and the
shirts on their backs.

But always, there is the dream of more. More freedom. More success. More money.
More everything.

And for today's dreamers, there are also the things that make our own lives
comfortable and familiar: Interstate 95. Friendly bus drivers. Reliable cops.
Driving when you turn 16 and discos where you're allowed to dance.

Such enticements are enough to make leaving your home country worthwhile --
enough to make America great.

Last year, 79,461 people came to Florida from other countries, according to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. They tend to notice the things we take
for granted. "Exotic" vegetables like broccoli. A justice system that usually
works. Public education.

These modern-day pilgrims embody the spirit of the Fourth of July. Here, seven
immigrants tell us what brought them here.

-- NATALIE HOPKINSON

ARTHUR and MARIAN BOURKE

Age: 74, 70

Country of Origin: Canada

Number of years in the U.S.: 39

Why did you come here?: Business

Initial impressions of the U.S.: Marian: Just the hugeness of it all, especially
in the big cities. It doesn't matter how much you read about it, you still never
realize what an impressive place this is. You could drive miles and miles and
still be in the city.

What surprised you the most about the U.S.?: Arthur: Today, some parts of New
York City look like one of those European bombed cities.

What do you like the most about living here?: Marian: Women's lib! It came here
before it went to Canada, so I was able to get a job (as a librarian) very
easily.

What do you like the least about living here?: Arthur: Crime. My wallet has been
stolen twice in the last two years.

ALEXIS GARCIA

Age: 22

Country of Origin: Cuba

Number of years in the U.S.: 2

Why did you come here?: There are many problems in Cuba with the communist
government. I don't agree with that kind of government.

Initial impressions of the U.S.: The big cities and the technology were great.
There are all kinds of races here and many languages.

What surprised you the most about the U.S.?: I thought I would get a job here
more easily.

What do you like the most about living here?: I can have fun here, in the discos
and the bars. In Cuba, those things are only for the tourists.

What do you like the least about living here?: Not being able to speak the
language.

BERTHO DESTY

Age: 22

Country of Origin: Haiti

Number of years in the U.S.: 6

Why did you come here?: For a better life and an education. Haiti has many
problems, and here there are more opportunities.

Initial impressions of the U.S.: When I first got here, I couldn't believe the
roads. In Haiti, it is hard to get around. Here, I-95 can get you anywhere. What
surprised you the most about the U.S.?: The class system. I was surprised how
easily people can figure out if you have an education or what class you are in.

What do you like the most about living here?: You have more security for your
life. You know if someone does you wrong, that the police or the courts will
catch them.

What do you like the least about living here?: Nothing. I like most everything
about this country.

DAVID RYDER

Age: 29

Country of Origin: Ireland

Number of years in the U.S.: 4

Why did you come here? Similar language, better climate. I was looking for a
chance to broaden my horizons and see the world, and I ended up staying here.

Initial impression of the U.S.: The faster pace and the contrasts within this
country, like New England vs. Florida. They are different countries within a
country.

What surprised you the most about the U.S.? The fact that St. Patrick's Day is
celebrated with incredible fervor here - which, of course, we love. It seems as
if it is more of a big deal here than in Ireland.

What do you like the most about living here? The beaches. Going into the water
365 days a year and never getting cold.

What do you like the least about living here? Afternoon storms and bad drivers.

EMILY URBINA

Age: 17

Country of Origin: Philippines.

Number of years in the U.S.: 13

Why did you come here? I came to join my mother, who was working here.

Initial impression of the U.S.: It seemed that everything is more open here,
like the way that people dressed.

What surprised you the most about the U.S.? That the school system is so
relaxed. The schools were more proper in the Philippines.

What do you like the most about living here? My Nissan 200SX. I wouldn't have my
own car at 16 if I lived in the Philippines.

What do you like the least about living here? Being away from family. Most of my
family is still in the Philippines.

LUZ TERESA MORALES

Age: 37

Country of Origin: Chile

Number of years in the U.S.: 10

Why did you come here? I thought it would be a nice place to live.

Initial impressions of the U.S.: People are so polite here. When I first got on
the bus here, the bus driver was so nice. She would say, "Thank you," "You're
welcome," and "You want to stop here?" She was so nice.

What surprised you the most about the U.S.? The black people surprised me. There
are no black people in Chile. When I first came here, I wanted to touch the
black people, talk to the black people.

What do you like the most about living here? Broccoli. I never ate broccoli back
in Chile.

What do you like the least about living here? Discrimination. I'm Latina, so
when I go to the grocery store, I am served first, then the black people second.

AMANDA MARMOLEJO

Age: 40

Country of Origin: Colombia

Number of years in the U.S.: 5

Why did you come here?  To be with family

Initial impression of the U.S.: Everything seemed so organized, from the people
to the streets. And everybody had a car.

What surprised you the most about the U.S.? I am Hispanic, so it surprised me
that people thought I was different.

What do you like the most about living here? I like the easy way we live. In
Colombia, you work hard, but don't get as much for your money. The value of the
peso is down.

What do you like the least about living here? The people. They are nice here,
but I miss my people. Some Americans seem so cold, like they don't have feelings
inside. In Colombia, we are passionate, we have more expression for everything.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C & 4 B&W), 1. (C) Alexis Garcia, 2. (C) Bertho Desty, 3. (C)
Arthur and Marian Bourke, 4. (B&W) David Ryder, 5. (B&W) Emily Urbina, 6. (B&W)
Luz Teresa Morales, 7. (B&W) Amanda marmolejo

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              200 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 10, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CAN CALL TOLL-FREE TO AVOID WAIT

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


It's the appointment immigrants dread. Visiting the local immigration service
office can mean hours-long waits, unfriendly service and leaving with questions
unanswered.

Even a stop to pick up immigrant forms can turn into a four-hour wait to see an
immigration examiner.

So why not put the forms on a self-service rack?

"If we put them out, the first three people in line would take them all," said
Frank Carey, an adjudication officer at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's office at 4360 Northlake Blvd.

Carey addressed complaints about the office during a two-hour meeting Friday
with 30 representatives of advocacy groups that deal with immigration problems.

About 10 percent of the 200 or more immigrants who visit the Northlake office
daily are looking for forms, Carey said.

The office tried setting up a window just to issue forms, but it didn't work.

"They get a form and then they want questions answered," Carey said.

The Miami INS district headquarters has a forms office, but also enough
employees to handle requests. Carey said the local office has 11 employees to
handle the needs of immigrants in Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Okeechobee,
Indian River, Hendry, Highlands and Glades counties.

The lines and services have improved and office staff are more accessible to
answer questions from immigrant organizations, said Elsa Gibbons, a member of
the Immigration Advocacy Task Force that organized the meeting.

Another member, Miriam Etergenio, said some employees of the office are rude and
give out wrong information to immigrants.

Polly Gaspar, a social worker at the Guatemalan Mayan Center in Lake Worth, said
enforcement of immigration law seems to target Guatemalans while ignoring
others, such as Canadians, who are in the country illegally.

Carey said his office seldom works with the U.S. Border Patrol, the agency
responsible for apprehending and deporting undocumented immigrants.

"There are a lot of people who enter our office without documents," Carey said.
"We don't take them into custody."

Those who are in the country illegally and have no claims to stay are issued
notices to appear before an immigration judge, he said.

Avoid the lines

To avoid long waits at the Immigration and Naturalization office, the INS
advises immigrants to call a toll-free number and order immigration forms by
mail. The number is (800) 870-3676. The forms will arrive in about two weeks.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              201 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 1, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

ASYLUM DENIALS LEADING TO FASTER DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 510 words


There were no goodbyes, no last embrace.

As his wife and young children sat outside, Berthony Dumas disappeared into an
immigration service office in Miami and never came back. Alicia Dumas, 22,
learned later that her husband of two years had been detained for deportation to
Haiti.

Every week, the Miami office sends out more than 100 deportation letters to
immigrants who lose their appeals to stay in the United States. Many immigrants
ignore the letters, knowing that showing up for an appointment usually means a
one-way ticket out of the country.

Dumas, 34, kept his appointment Thursday morning, convinced that the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service would not deport someone with two
U.S.-born children and a wife just two months shy of being able to apply for
U.S. citizenship.

"He thought he would have a chance to stay here," says Alicia, who lives in the
couple's $ 685-a-month apartment in suburban Lantana. Her husband's salary as a
security guard paid the rent and provided food and clothing for his daughters.

"If he goes back to Haiti, it's going to be difficult for me," she says.

The breakup of families is likely to increase as the INS begins to deport
thousands of Haitians, Guatemalans and others whose asylum applications have
been denied in past months.

The Miami district office has more than doubled the number of deportations in
the past year. Last year's new immigration laws make removal easier.

"Many in the Haitian community are terrified that their families are about to be
forceably separated," says Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigration
Advocacy Center in Miami. She says Dumas' deportation is surprising because he's
married to a legal resident and is the sole supporter of two children who are
U.S. citizens.

"The humane thing would be for the INS to delay that deportation," Little says.

Attorneys from the St. Thomas University Immigration Clinic in Miami appealed to
Miami INS District Director Robert Wallis on Friday to postpone Dumas'
deportation.

"There was nothing egregious about Dumas," says Linda Kelly, an attorney with
the clinic. "He has no criminal record. He has not been arrested. He is just a
guy trying to take care of his family."

Kelly is asking that Dumas be released from detention and the deportation order
be suspended until his wife gains U.S. citizenship. Once a citizen, Alicia Dumas
can sponsor her husband for U.S. legal residency.

Dumas entered the country illegally in 1992, shortly after Alicia entered with
an immigrant visa. Because he had no immigration status, Dumas' only hope to
remain was to ask for political asylum. His asylum request was denied.

Because he did not leave the country voluntarily after the denial, Dumas must
wait at least five years in Haiti before he's eligible to reenter the United
States.

Alicia Dumas says she was surprised at her husband's detention because he did
not tell her any details about his immigration problems.

"Every time he tried to explain it to me," she says, "he started crying."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), STEPHANIE WELSH/Staff Photographer, Alicia Dumas, in her
Lantana area apartment with daughters Victoria, 7 months, and Ashley, 2 years,
says she will have difficulty paying bills if her husband is deported.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              202 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               October 12, 1997, Sunday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRANT SUSPECTS A UNIQUE CHALLENGE

BYLINE: Jill Taylor

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 619 words


Suspects in at least three Martin County homicides may never face American
justice.

Three men suspected in three, and perhaps four, killings managed to get out of
the county, the state and the country before investigators could catch up with
them. All are believed to be hiding in their native Mexico.

Investigators and the FBI are looking for them, but if they are found, they
would have to be tried in Mexico under Mexican laws in Mexican courts.

Martin Sheriff's Capt. Bill Snyder, who heads the detective bureau, said
investigations involving non-American suspects pose special problems.

Many of the Mexican nationals living illegally in the area change their names
and swap identification frequently, making it impossible to know whether the
name given to friends and employers is the person's true identity.

The normal paperwork and personal trails detectives follow when they are looking
for someone are often dead ends with non-citizens.

"We don't know when they were born, where they were born, where they went to
school, where their family lives. There's no work history ... The traditional
approach does not apply," Snyder said.

Even employers and co-workers may not know the suspect's real name or background
and unless there is a prior arrest with a jail mug shot, there is typically no
driver license or other photo identification.

Undocumented immigrants arrested for violent felonies and drug charges are
reported to immigration officials for possible deportation. Those who return
after deportation face additional federal charges, but Snyder said that doesn't
prevent illegals from returning.

Martin county jail officials said they frequently see repeat offenders who had
been turned over to Border Patrol after prior arrests. Sometimes they are using
a different name, but once their fingerprints are on file, investigators can
match them up with the earlier arrest.

"We get a lot of re-entries," said jail Sgt. Shawn Marques. "Normally we put a
hold on inmates and let INS (Immigration and Naturalization Service) know if
they will be released."

Immigration officials typically pick up the released inmates at the jail when
their court cases are finished, take them to West Palm Beach or Miami for
processing and then deport them if they don't have any other charges.

Those arrested on minor charges - misdemeanors and traffic offenses - are often
issued notices to appear before immigration officials, but they often fail to
show up.

Snyder said the majority of Mexicans and other Hispanics in the county are
hard-working, law-abiding people who deplore the violence as much as everyone
else.

After a 32-year-old man was shot to death in front of his 10-year-old son in
July, a neighbor who did not want to be identified told reporters she knew the
suspect, Santiago Mendoza, and had no use for him.

"I'm Mexican," she said. "But his kind of Mexican we don't need around here.
People like him give the whole community a bad name."

Suspects may have fled country

Martin County sheriff's detectives are looking for these men in connection with
four recent homicides. Investigators believe the three illegal immigrants have
fled the country to Mexico.

Jorge Mancilla, 25, is wanted on a murder charge in connection with the July
1996 shooting death of Noelvin Carabello Castro in Port Salerno.

Adrian Medina-Gomez, 24, is wanted on a murder charge in the May bludgeoning
death of Miranda Kahle-Wilson in Port Salerno. Detectives also want to question
Medina-Gomez in the strangulation death of Terra Kerstein.

Santiago Mendoza, 33, is wanted on a murder charge in connection with the July
shotgun slaying of Jose Roberto Fuentes in Port Salerno.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) & MAP (B&W), 1. (B&W) Jorge Mancilla (mug), 2. MARK
HEMPHILL/Staff Artist, Map shows locatio of Port Salerno

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              203 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 31, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CAUCUSES WANT HAITIANS IN IMMIGRATION RELIEF DEAL

BYLINE: Larry Lipman; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Calling for equal treatment for Haitian refugees, members of the congressional
black and Hispanic caucuses Thursday urged the Clinton administration and House
Republican leaders to include Haitians in a deal to grant immigration relief to
Central Americans living in the United States.

''The issue is fairness for all of the immigrants who came to this country with
a promise from this government that they would receive a chance for amnesty,''
said Rep. Carrie Meek, a Democrat from Miami.

Meek and Rep. Alcee Hastings, a Democrat from Miramar, staged two rallies
Thursday in front of the Capitol to bring attention to the plight of roughly
12,000 Haitians who arrived in the United States before December 1995 - most of
them after being detained at the Guantanamo U.S. Naval Station in Cuba before
being admitted - and face deportation under terms of the immigration law adopted
last year.

The House is expected soon to consider an amendment crafted by Rep. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart, a Republican from Miami, with the support of Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas and Speaker Newt Gingrich which would grant legal residence to about
400,000 Nicaraguans, Guatemalans and Salvadorans who arrived in the United
States before 1996.

Meek has introduced a bill that would include Haitians in the Diaz-Balart
amendment and allow them to have their amnesty claims processed under standards
that existed before the new law took effect.

Earlier this month the Senate adopted an amendment by Sens. Connie Mack, R-Fla.,
Bob Graham, D-Fla., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., that would require all refugees
who had asylum requests pending when the immigration bill became law last year
to remain under the previous rules.

Mack and Graham both support efforts to grant Haitians the same legal status as
Central Americans, but Mack said he doubted the provision would be accepted by
the House.

Republican lawmakers generally have been willing to relax the rules for the
Central American refugees because they have a history of escaping communist
regimes or countries wracked by communist-led guerrillas. But since the Haitians
escaped from non-communist military dictatorships, many Republican House members
have been cool toward including them in the exemption.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), RICK McKAY/Post Washington Bureau, Sonson Nelson of Miami
joins other Haitian immigrants at a rally on Capitol Hill Thursday to seek
inclusion in legislation granting residency to Central Americans.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              204 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 1, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS RALLY FOR AMNESTY, SAME RIGHTS AS CENTRAL AMERICANS TO GET

BYLINE: Bill Douthat; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


Shouting ''Amnesty, please'' and waving placards, hundreds of Haitian refugees
protested Friday because Congress hasn't granted them relief from deportation.

They stood on Northlake Boulevard near the regional office of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service for four hours to draw attention to their
demands.

They are angry that Congress appears ready to grant legal status to Central
American refugees while ignoring the claims of Haitians.

''We left our country for political reasons, the same as the Nicaraguans and
Salvadorans,'' said Dominique St. Fluer of Lake Worth, one of the rally
organizers. ''We want to be included.''

The rally drew about 250 people and was orderly, said Jonathan Renner, an
officer with the Federal Protective Service, which protects federal buildings.
At its peak, the crowd appeared to be closer to 700 people, though organizers
estimated it was much higher.

Most of the protesters' signs asked that families not be separated by
deportations and that amnesty be granted without discrimination.

Mathieu Exantus of Boynton Beach said he hoped President Clinton took note of
the protest during his visit to the area Friday.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              205 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 7, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'LIES' AN UNEVEN, TOUCHING IMMIGRANT TALE

BYLINE: Gary Schwan

SECTION: TGIF, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 753 words


The soundtrack crosses Lassie with The Waltons. The tender scenes cry out for
subtitles - "Warning! You're being emotionally molested." Yet when Telling Lies
in America serves up this mush, the result isn't without flavor.

Who gets credit? Could it be screenwriter Joe Eszterhas (Showgirls), a man who
seems determined to make high art of hack work? Not really. This coming-of-age
movie is far too sincere to qualify as postmodern.

How about Kevin Bacon, a very good actor who negotiates a slick turn as a
slicker? Maybe. He's great, but his character isn't grounded enough. He's
essential to the story and yet elusive.

The movie has its moments because it treats an All-American subject. That would
be the immigrant experience, a welter of fact and myth which even gives The
Godfather the patina of patriotism. And if we can get warm and fuzzy over
mobsters, why not heave up a whimper for a Hungarian refugee lad finding his way
in this golden land, even if he has to fib to clear the path?

The movie is also helped if the audience can identify with the early '60s, its
ambitions and social rites, myths and rock 'n' roll, all of which are re-created
very well.

Welcome to Cleveland, circa 1960. Young Karchy Jonas (Brad Renfro, of The
Client) appears doomed as an outsider. His mother died in a refugee camp after
the Hungarian uprising. He lives with his doting father (Maximilian Schell), a
laborer who yearns for American citizenship.

Karchy attends a good Catholic high school, but his grades are lousy and he
hangs with misfits.  He's hot for a co-worker (Calista Flockhart, of TV's Ally
McBeal). But she's a bit older and a lot wiser, hesitant to get cozy with a
sneaky kid with a skewed sense of reality.

Then along comes Magic. Billy Magic (Bacon). He's a finger-popping,
Caddy-driving disc jockey, a Daddy-o of the Radio who takes a liking to Karchy
and his fibbing for some reason.

Actually, for good reason. To Karchy, the outsider with longings, Billy is a
bigger symbol of American promise than the Statue of Liberty. Karchy gets the
DJ's attention through a pathetic scam, and soon becomes his gofer - and
unwitting accomplice in crime. No surprise. Billy Magic is on the take for dough
(payola) and on the make for a dummy (Karchy).

The famous pay-to-play scandal is used to chart Karchy's growth from a dreamy,
mendacious kid, to a more-or-less responsible man-child. At least, he shows that
promise toward the end of the movie, although he has to decide whether to tell
one more, very big whopper. (So what's the moral? In order to get ahead in
America, it's necessary to know when to lie and when not to? The flick seems to
squish that way.)

Swively of hip and lip, Bacon energizes an episodic narrative that never
completely pulls you in. Billy Magic knows he's a phony and accepts the fact
with a shoeshine and a smile. Or in Bacon's case, a sneer. He's the enduring
American nightmare - the likable con man. He's the reason why we're still loath
to visit car lots or embrace the latest intellectual fad from Paris.

It's too bad that Billy tends to be the movie's foil and not its focus. He's
more interesting than Karchy, who remains slightly out of focus. Renfro's
diffident mannerisms occasionally reach parody. Check him out as he walks into a
grand jury room as if he'd just been sent to bed without his supper - a case of
bad acting, or bad directing (Guy Ferland), or both.

On the other hand, he does achieve a sober-sided romanticism, no small feat. And
his insightful girlfriend, Flockhart, proves a remarkably sensitive and alluring
actress.

In its many variations, Eszterhas is a grand Hungarian name. It's easy to
imagine Karchy as the writer's younger self. If so, he settles scores with his
spiteful but amusing treatment of a doofus boss and a hard-guy priest. He also
spins a bittersweet elegy to a lost love.

Telling Lies may be just another chapter in the immigrant story, and not a
terribly dashing one at that. Duddy Kravitz meets America, America and loses his
innocence at the Quiz Show. But darn if this film does not get you now and then
in the old red, white and blue.

Now showing at: Carefree Theatre, Mission Bay Plaza 8.

TELLING LIES IN AMERICA

* * 1/2

Rated PG-13: Language, sexual situations.

Running time: 101 minutes.

The verdict: A coming-of-age film about an immigrant kid whose hero turns out to
be a crook, this is a too-familiar American tale that still gets you now and
then in the old red, white and blue.


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), AMERICAN DREAMERS: An immigrant (Brad Renfro, left)
idolizes a corrupt disc jockey (Kevin Bacon) in Telling Lies in America.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              206 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 17, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. SHOULD BE STRICT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 81 words


 As a Haitian child born in the U.S., I think that all immigrants that have
illegally been here more than three years should be deported. If they spent
three years in this country and haven't filed for citizenship, they probably
don't plan on it.  It shouldn't be the taxpayers paying for one who wants a free
ride.
   Immigrants who have been here less than three years should go through the
same process as every other immigrant that is now a citizen.
 Djenie Helne, 13

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Students Speak Out

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Djenie Helne (mug)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              207 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 17, 1997, Monday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS WORK FOR LITTLE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 84 words


 As a Mexican-American, I have been exposed to the life of a migrant-farm
worker. I believe we should grant citizenship to immigrants who have been in
this country for many years. Most Americans would not do the work that
immigrants are willing to do, but for Mexican farm workers, $ 3 an hour seems
like a lot compared to 25 cents an hour in Mexico. With the hard-earned money of
odd jobs, they get settled, only to be crushed. It is not right to deny them
citizenship.
   Vanessa Rivera, 13

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Students Speak Out

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Vanessa Rivera (mug)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              208 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 21, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SUSPECT CAUGHT IN MEXICO

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: NEWTON, N.J.


With a reading from one of her favorite Psalms and memories recounted by her
family and friends, the body of Sheila Bellush was laid to rest Thursday.

About 125 people attended a funeral service at the First Presbyterian Church for
Bellush, the 35-year-old mother of six who was found shot to death in her
Sarasota home on Nov. 7, with her 23-month-old quadruplets playing nearby.

Bellush's husband, James, was raised in Hampton Township.  The man charged with
murdering Bellush was arrested Thursday in Monterrey, Mexico, Texas authorities
said.

Texas Rangers and Mexican police had hunted for Jose Luis Del Toro, 21, since he
was charged.

Mexican state judicial police and U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
agents picked him up about 5 p.m. at a house in Monterrey where a group of
illegal immigrants was staying, said Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman
Mike Cox.

Del Toro offered no resistance and was being questioned by Mexican police, Cox
said. Monterrey is 235 miles south-southwest of Laredo, Texas.

Cox said it wasn't clear how or when Del Toro would be brought back to Texas.
Mexican officials could either send him back to the United States as an illegal
immigrant, or U.S. authorities could seek formal extradition.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
IN BRIEF

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              209 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 27, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS DIDN'T START IMMIGRATION POLITICS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 506 words


For more than three decades, Congress had left out Haitians whenever lawmakers
passed out immigration presents. This week, President Clinton gave refugees from
Haiti a slightly soiled package, and it looks as if there will be a fight over
that.

Mr. Clinton chose Christmas Eve to issue an executive order granting Haitian
refugees a one-year reprieve from deportation. He said he would work with
Congress on a longer-range solution. One good reason not to ship 40,000 Haitians
back right now is that, despite the second-best efforts of this and other
countries, Haiti remains politically and economically shaky.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, the immigration chairman with whom Mr. Clinton has to
work, accused the president of "trashing refugee and asylum policy for blatantly
political purposes." Merry Christmas, Mr. Smith, but isn't that what Congress
did last month, when it exempted 150,000 Nicaraguan and 250,000 Salvadoran and
Guatemalan refugees from deportation?

The Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966 granted permanent residence status for anyone
escaping Fidel Castro's left-wing tyranny in Cuba. Haitians fleeing "Papa Doc"
Duvalier's right-wing tyranny could expect interception on the high seas and
return to Haiti. During the 1980s, when President Reagan took sides in civil
wars with Central American Marxists, refugees were welcome. They were unwelcome,
however, if coming from Haiti, even when machete-wielding thugs attacked voters.

As the numbers suggest, there is a problem. A backlog of noncitizens - with, in
many cases, children who are citizens - resulted from the refugee and asylum
programs of 20 years. Politics largely created the problem. Politicians
discriminated among tyrants. Refugee status depended on how strongly our leaders
detested their ruler.

Haiti was so poor for so long, there is little for kleptocrats to steal. Not
even the Communists wanted it. Haiti was, therefore, of no interest to the
United States government. Besides, lawmakers could get more votes by helping
other refugee groups.

So when Congress saw that a new immigration policy it passed to save money last
year was too abrupt and made it too hard for refugees to legalize their status,
Central Americans were excused from the law's worst provisions. Haitians
weren't. Florida's two senators, Republican Connie Mack and Democrat Bob Graham,
tried to include Haitians in the revision of the law, as did U.S. Reps. Alcee
Hastings, D-Miramar, and Carrie Meek, D-Miami.

They had little political support in the House, so Mr. Clinton acted by
executive order. The order applies only to those admitted after the overthrow of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1991 and those who applied for asylum before
1996. It's not all-inclusive.

Mr. Clinton's order doesn't substitute for refugee policy, much less immigration
policy. But it's ridiculous to pretend that either policy is well-conceived and
carefully worked out and that Mr. Clinton suddenly tainted them with politics.
They never have been anything but politics.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              210 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              January 27, 1998, Tuesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

GUATEMALANS HEAD TO D.C. FOR EQUALITY MARCH

BYLINE: Cara Anna; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


Hundreds of Guatemalans from South Florida will leave Thursday in buses for
Washington, where they will march Friday in front of the Capitol with this
message:

Treat us like the Nicaraguans.

Congress agreed in November to exempt hundreds of thousands of refugees of civil
wars in Central America from new immigration rules. About 150,000 Nicaraguans
who came to the United States before December 1995 were given permanent resident
status.

But Guatemalans and Salvadorans must have applied for political asylum before
Oct. 1, 1990. Then, before receiving permanent status, they have to prove they
have lived in the U.S. seven consecutive years and that leaving would cause
hardship for their family.

Marchers and organizers from the newly formed National Guatemalan Coalition for
Permanent Residence will ask Friday that as Congress returns to session, it
reviews its actions.

They will ask for permanent resident status for all Guatemalans who entered the
U.S. before Dec. 29, 1996, the day peace accords were signed.

''We believe the reasons we came are the same,'' said Jose Perez of Lake Worth,
an organizer of the march. ''For the first time, Guatemalans are going to make
their expressions known to the American people.''

Seven buses will leave Indiantown, said Andres Cruz, the director of Corn Maya,
a Guatemalan migrant-worker aid group in Indiantown. Other buses are expected to
leave from West Palm Beach, Lake Worth, Miami and Immokalee, he said. He
expected 4,000 to 5,000 to march Friday.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              211 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 31, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

GUATEMALANS RALLY FOR EQUAL TREATMENT

BYLINE: Larry Lipman; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Waving signs and banners demanding equal treatment, approximately 1,000
Guatemalan refugees rallied Friday at the Capitol and then marched to the White
House as supporters promised legislation to grant them permanent United States
residency.

Nearly half of the protesters came from Palm Beach County, said Andres Cruz, of
Corn Maya, a community organization of Guatemalan refugees, and one of the rally
speakers.

''Thousand and thousands (of our countrymen) have disappeared. We don't know
where we will find them, probably in the cemeteries,'' Cruz said, as tears
streamed down his face. ''Thank you, God. We are alive here and we will stay
here.''

At issue are changes in the 1996 immigration law that could result in the
deportation of hundreds of thousands of Guatemalans, Salvadorans, Hondurans and
Haitians. Another bill, passed last year, gave the Central Americans a brief
respite from threatened deportation, but did not grant them the same permanent
residency status it gave refugees from Nicaragua, Cuba and the former Soviet
Union.

A bill by Rep. Luiz Gutierrez, D-Ill., would grant permanent residency for
Guatemalans, Salvadorans who applied for asylum before April 1, 1990, and
Haitians who applied before Dec. 31, 1995. Rep. Carrie Meek, a Democrat from
Miami who co-sponsored Gutierrez's bill, said she also would introduce a bill
giving similar residency status to Honduran refugees. The refugees would have to
apply for permanent residency status by April 1, 2000.

''It is important that this country and its immigration laws give justice to
all,'' Meek said at the rally. ''There are many in the Congress who feel like
you do, that this is a nation of immigrants and there is no reason why you
shouldn't get equal justice.''

Meek noted that families from many different Central American countries live
side by side in South Florida, but Nicaraguan refugees are guaranteed their
permanent residency ''green cards,'' while refugees from other countries have
difficulty getting or are denied such status.

For many of the Guatemalans who came on buses from Palm Beach County, the
question of residency is a matter of life or death.

Although the Guatemalan government signed a peace agreement with rebels on Dec.
29, 1996, many refugees fear it cannot be enforced. They point to the rape there
earlier this month of five Maryland college students as evidence of the
country's instability.

''If they do that to those people, who were from . . . the United States, if we
return, they will kill us in a moment, because we are people who live very far
from cities and the military groups who kill a lot of people are in those
areas,'' said Sebastian Velasquez, of Indiantown, who attended the rally with
his brother, Victor, and their families.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), RICK MCKAY/Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau, Andres Cruz
of Palm Beach County addresses about 1,000 Guatemalans at the U.S. Capitol
Friday. They are seeking legislation that would grant them permanent residency.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              212 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 14, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IN THIS VILLAGE, YOU CAN GO HOME AGAIN

BYLINE: Sam Quinones

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1261 words


Nothing quite illustrates some basic truths about immigration to the United
States, in general, and Mexican emigration, in particular, like Jaripo and its
houses.

Jaripo is a village in the northern part of Michoacan, a state in central Mexico
that is a major supplier of immigrants to the United States, especially
California. Emigration in this region is a well-established tradition. People
have been leaving Jaripo in large numbers since the ''bracero'' program in the
1940s.

Entering the town, the houses are one of the first things you notice. Many are
newly painted two-story structures, with marble floors, satellite dishes,
sliding glass windows, tiled driveways, ornate arches and gates. Inside, there's
plush furniture. One house has an external winding staircase. These are the
homes of people who work in the United States.

The next thing you notice is that more houses are under construction. Like
hundreds of small Mexican villages in regions of heavy emigration to the United
States, Jaripo has an unfinished look. Over the years, returning immigrants add
on to their houses, while others lay foundations for new ones. But what's most
remarkable about these houses is that they remain vacant at least 10 months a
year.

They are occupied for only a few weeks when Jaripo's native children return from
Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles and, primarily, Stockton, Calif., where, since the
1960s, they have formed the backbone of the state agriculture industry, working
in the fields and canneries. The houses are, in effect, retirement homes, to
which their owners believe they will return someday to live permanently. That's
their dream, anyway.

We like to believe that the immigrants' dream is to go to the United States,
make new lives for themselves, assimilate and become Americans. But judging from
the Jaripo experience, this may be misleading. Jaripo, and thousands of Mexican
villages like it, are standing proof that, for immigrants who travel north
seeking economic advancement, the real American dream is to earn money and
return home to Mexico so they can show friends and family that they, too, made
it in the U.S.A.

Most immigrants from around the world have always wanted to go home - rich. It's
quite natural. Mexicans are different only in that they are among the few groups
in history who have been able to realize the immigrants' American dream: They
can go home again.

For Mexicans, going home has always been quick, relatively safe and cheap. But
it also has meant that, unlike other immigrants, Mexicans have never had to
perform the excruciatingly emotional surgery of severing ties to their native
land.

In some sense, this may be good. Jaripenos, for example, have done an admirable
job of making sure their American-born children know Mexico and Spanish. Plus,
taken together, immigrant families' small investments in their hometowns amount
to a potent engine of private-sector urban renewal in much of depressed rural
Mexico. In Michoacan, one scholar has estimated that immigrant investment in
houses and businesses outstrips that of local, state and federal governments
combined.

Without such investment, villages like Jaripo would have died years ago. Some
permanent residents' only consistent work is when the immigrants return and
begin adding on to their homes. ''You have to work while they're all here,''
says Enrique Yepes, a construction worker. ''When they leave, there's nothing.''

Yet, in many ways, this living connection to Mexico has impeded immigrants'
progress in America. It certainly has slowed their political integration into
the United States, where they spend most of their lives and where their children
go to school. Jaripenos only recently - and only when faced with the threat of
Proposition 187 and the possibility of similar measures nationally - began to
naturalize and earn the right to vote.

Their wages don't allow them to invest in the United States and Mexico. So the
choice, for many, is obvious. In Stockton, many Jaripeno families rent houses in
the city's toughest neighborhoods - notorious for gangs, drugs and the worst
schools - while maintaining stunning but vacant houses back home.

Jaripo's immigrants, and their American children, return to occupy these houses
in December and January. The last week of every January, they throw themselves
one of the best parties in Mexico, with fireworks, dances, bands in the town
plaza and nightly pilgrimages to church.

Jaripo fills up. As it does, a subtle social competition becomes apparent. The
houses get more elaborate every year. ''It's the most common thing we see in
these villages,'' says Gustavo Lopez Castro, a professor at the Colegio de
Michoacan in the city of Zamora nearby, who has studied Michoacan immigration
for 12 years. ''The first investment is in the house in the village. They have
to demonstrate that they've had success.''

But success also is reflected in the shiny cars and trucks, from which powerful
stereos blast as they roll into town for the party. Some people even cart in
sleek motorcycles that are virtually useless on Jaripo's bumpy, narrow streets.
Women come to the plaza each night in elegant evening gowns. Teenagers bring
their best Nike gear and Starters jackets. Young couples return to get married,
in weddings that cost thousands of dollars.

For most families, the return represents a year of hard work and sacrifice in
the United States. Often, an entire year's savings is spent in a month. No one
wants to come home a miser.

Omar Fonseca, a sociologist who co-wrote a book on Jaripo, remembers one
farm-worker family who would not come home if they didn't have at least $ 3,000
to spend. This same family, Mr. Fonseca says, would pull the children out of
school in order to work the fields and make the nut for the trip every January.

Thus, some Jaripeno youths are second-generation field workers in Stockton. Many
others have avoided the fields but have not gone to college.

The immigrants' return also affects Jaripo. Many townspeople faintly resent
their returning brethren. ''Some of them come back with rented suits, so they
can show off to those of us who don't leave,'' says one local businessman. They
complain also that the children return from the United States disrespectful and
brash. And while the town does continue on, its sole reason for existence seems
more and more to be simply that of a stage for the January party.

The children who have yet to journey north see the returning immigrants wearing
fancy clothes and tennis shoes and driving trucks with state-of-the-art stereos;
they see houses going up; they see money flashed about. They hear stories about
the United States - and they can't wait to leave.

Because Jaripo's first emigrants are reaching retirement age, they soon will
have the opportunity to act on their dream of returning home to a nice house, a
quiet Mexican village and a dollar-dominated pension. Yet, their dream may,
imperceptibly, have changed just as they are able, for the first time, to make a
home of the house they labored so hard to build. Years of living in the United
States have likely made Mexico more appealing to them as a tourist destination
rather than as a final resting place. They may be hard-pressed to leave their
grandchildren in the States.

And Jaripo will likely remain a town of extravagant ghost houses.

Sam Quinones, a correspondent for the Pacific News Service, is the recipient of
an Alicia Patterson fellowship for 1998. He wrote this article for the Los
Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              213 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 27, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS IS URGED TO HELP HAITIANS STAY

BYLINE: Claire D. Duggan; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Several prominent Florida Republicans Thursday urged Congress to pass
legislation giving permanent residency status to Haitian refugees.

Three bills are pending in Congress - one in the Senate and two in the House -
that would prevent deportation and provide a stable status for Haitians who fled
their homeland because of government persecution.

''I am confident the right thing will happen,'' said Al Cardenas, vice chair of
the Florida Republican Party. ''The right thing is to provide appropriate relief
to the Haitian-American community.''

Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, both Republicans from Miami
who were born in Cuba, said at a news conference that they supported the
legislation, citing America's tradition of opening its doors to immigrants.

''We are hopeful that the process of legislation will provide relief and peace
of mind for many Haitian immigrants,'' Ros-Lehtinen said.

Attorney General Janet Reno put a one-year hold on the deportation of Haitians
late last year while the bills are being considered.

In 1997, Congress passed the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief
Act granting permanent status to the refugees from communist governments and
insurrections.

Although several lawmakers urged that the Haitian refugees be included in last
year's bill, they were excluded because opponents argued that the Haitians were
economic - rather than political - refugees.

Ana Navarro, a leader in the South Florida Nicaraguan community who supported
the immigration bill last year, said she is working to cover Haitian refugees
this year. She said Haitians were left out of last year's bill because ''the
Haitian community did not start early enough.''

''We couldn't do it for the Haitians last year, but by gosh, we're going to do
it this year,'' Navarro said.

The fight to extend permanent status to the Haitian refugees is bipartisan, with
strong Senate support from Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla. and Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla.

In a letter to Graham, President Clinton said he supported the effort to pass
this legislation.

''Your bill recognizes that Haitians have made important contributions to our
communities,'' Clinton wrote.

Cardenas said he is optimistic the legislation will pass because of the
bipartisan support.

''It's been an easier process because Florida has a senator who's a Republican,
and a senator who's a Democrat, and both beliefs coincided,'' Cardenas said.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              214 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 2, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

NEIGHBOR COULD BE CHARGED FOR NOT REPORTING IMMIGRANT BROTHEL

BYLINE: David Abel

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 395 words


For six months a thin wall separated Simone Ofelin's family from a bustling
two-bedroom brothel imprisoning up to eight illegal Mexican immigrants forced to
work as prostitutes.

Six nights a week scores of cars and rowdy clients crowded the small driveway of
their attached home in suburban West Palm Beach.

John Roseme, 39, Ofelin's live-in boyfriend, said he heard men beating the women
and watched the women being herded into a truck.

From March through September 1997, Ofelin said she punctually collected her $
450 rent from a man named ''Antonio.'' Yet in all that time neither Ofelin nor
Roseme, who live in Apt. 2 of 3658 Chickamauga Ave., alerted authorities.

Both Roseme and Ofelin, 38, said they were too busy to call. Ofelin called only
when someone broke into her car and stole her green card. ''I'm always
working,'' she said. ''I didn't want to get involved with those guys.''

The north half of the squat pink home served as one of a dozen brothels in South
Florida since 1996, according to a criminal complaint filed by the U.S.
attorney's office. FBI and Border Patrol agents arrested Rogerio Francisco
Cadena, 50, of Veracruz, Mexico, two weeks ago for smuggling at least 23 women
and girls and forcing them to pay for their delivery to Florida by selling their
bodies.

There are arrest warrants on the same charges for three of Cadena's nephews and
one of their wives. Agents believe Carmen Cadena, 31, might be in Fort Myers.

Two months after the brothel was abandoned an escaped 15-year-old victim led
agents to the $ 57,800 home where she averaged 20 men a day for more than two
weeks, records show.

An FBI agent investigating the brothel reported underwear hanging from a
chain-link fence and sheets affixed to the walls and ceilings as partitions for
mattresses.

''The lights used to be on all the time - all night,'' said Ofelin's neighbor
Rae Davis, 25, who also never called police. ''There were a lot of Mexicans
trafficking in and out. They would mistakenly knock on my door and throw beer
cans all over the place.''

Investigators said if Ofelin knew about the operation, she could be charged with
aiding or harboring the prostitution ring.

''Wouldn't it be obvious to you if you saw all those cars?'' said Carol
Wilkinson, an assistant U.S. attorney prosecuting the case. ''Illegal acts
should be reported.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              215 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 24, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

FELLOW DETAINEES RESENT CUBAN PLAYERS' FREE PASS

BYLINE: Dan Moffett, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 848 words


Immigration policy has long been a perplexing part of the American Dream to
interpret.

And if Cuban baseball players keep defecting, it may soon make no sense at all.

So claim attorneys who work in the field, and so charge angry refugees held in
the Bahamas for many months, whose best chance at quick release may be to
develop a good curveball.

About 250 Cubans, Haitians and Chinese detained in a barbed-wire-enclosed Nassau
camp talked of hunger strikes after four players and a coach, days after
arriving, appeared to be on a fast track to freedom and ultimately entry into
the United States.

The athletes, through their Cuban-American agent Joe Cubas, petitioned the Costa
Rican government for asylum Monday, raising resentment from fellow detainees who
once had considered the players heroes.

''Our fear is that we will be deported back to Cuba, where we know that, simply
for being baseball players who have decided to abandon the country, we can
expect grave consequences,'' said a letter from Cubas, appealing to Costa Rican
President Jose Maria Figueres.

Not all immigration lawyers are sure about how grave the peril to baseball
players really is in Cuba. But having seen U.S. policy at work, there is an
understanding of how unlevel the playing field can be.

''There's always been a double standard and there's always been preferential
treatment,'' said Peter Upton, an Indiantown attorney. ''In many ways,
immigration policies are extensions of what's expedient. This time, it's
baseball players who benefit.''

Special consideration for Cuban refugees has a long history - dating back to
Lyndon Johnson's Cuban Adjustment Act in 1966. The U.S. government's opposition
to Fidel Castro has had as a logical byproduct the willingness to accept his
oppressed countrymen. Cubans have been expedited, often at the expense of
Guatemalans, Mexicans and Salvadorans.

Preferential treatment

''It's fair to say with Cubans that we take them differently through the process
than with other nationalities,'' said Al Zucaro, immigration lawyer and West
Palm Beach city commissioner. ''We have a political position that Castro has a
communist regime. That is something that does not exist with other countries.''

The potential new development, seen only this year, is that a preferred subgroup
may have been identified within the politically favored Cubans - that being the
politically favored Cuban baseball players.

The harbinger of change may have arrived with Orlando ''El Duque'' Hernandez,
the star Cuban pitcher and older half-brother of the Marlins' Livan Hernandez.
El Duque rode a boat to the Bahamas in December with his girlfriend and six
other refugees, including a catcher on the Cuban team. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service offered a humanitarian parole to him, his girlfriend and
the teammate, but the other refugees were ignored.

A humanitarian parole is a little-used vehicle for allowing refugees who are
fleeing persecution in their homeland to enter the United States quickly. Just
how persecuted Hernandez was lies largely in the eye of the beholder.

''Humanitarian paroles are extremely, extremely unusual,'' said Joan Friedland,
a lawyer for nine years with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami. ''I
have never gotten one for a client. Never.''

As if controversy were not enough, the INS also was made to suffer embarrassment
when Hernandez and his catcher turned down the U.S. offer and instead applied
for visas in Costa Rica in a financial move. By entering the United States
through Costa Rica, the players were able to avoid the Major League draft and
sign free agent contracts here.

El Duque got a $ 6.5 million deal from the New York Yankees. His girlfriend took
the U.S. offer and came straight to Florida, bypassing red tape and the
inconveniences of the barbed-wire-enclosed camp at Nassau.

''It does surprise me and it does seem unfair,'' said Richard C. Pena, a West
Palm Beach attorney. ''It seems a little bit strange that the girlfriend was
given a humanitarian visa. I really don't know what qualifications ballplayers
would have that a normal person doesn't - how they would be more persecuted than
other people.''

Andrew Lluberes, an INS official in Washington, said the law allows Attorney
General Janet Reno to grant humanitarian paroles as she sees fit.

'Case-by-case basis'

''It's all done on a case-by-case basis,'' he said. ''She can grant them at her
discretion, where she believes there is a pressing need. Baseball players are
not considered special cases because they are baseball players.''

This is not easily accepted by Andres Cruz, an Indiantown activist with Corn
Maya, a group of Guatemalan refugees that seeks permanent residency for those
who fled here to escape civil war.

''There are between 30,000 and 40,000 Guatemalans in Florida who escaped real
persecution, real war,'' Cruz said. ''My people can't get visas. I don't think
that it's fair that good players are treated different than us.''

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              216 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 26, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

A SCREWBALL POLICY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 250 words


You think rules should be fair? What country are YOU from?

Can't be this one, because here we know better - particularly about immigration
rules.

This comes from a long tradition. When figuring state populations, the U.S.
Constitution originally counted slaves as three-fifths of a person and Indians
as zero. Those populations were here - some before white Europeans arrived, and
others came ashore involuntarily - but they weren't here according to the rules.

America has played favorites ever since. We welcomed Western Europeans. Chinese
could build the Western railroads, but didn't get to be citizens. That tradition
- work cheap, then go home - has been slow to die. Until recently, foreign
workers cut the sugar cane in South Florida.

Certainly, no one should be surprised that rules about Cuba are weird. During
the 1980s, we took all Cubans to protect them from a dictator but had an
official agreement to return all Haitians to an equally cruel government.

So how do we make sense of the rules that grease the skids for Cuban ballpayers
to live or work in America? We're simply following a long policy of unfairness.
Every rich country has such a policy. If we didn't exclude those less fortunate,
we'd get swamped.

OK, so with the Cuban ballplayers, the unfairness is so bad it's indefensible.
Maybe we've favored them because, subconsciously, we're waiting for that moment
when one is on third base and we can return to our xenophobic ways by shouting,
"Go home!"

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              217 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 7, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

THE STORY OF FOUR IMMIGRANTS;
DREAMS REALLY DO COME TRUE

BYLINE: Paul Reid, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ACCENT, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 994 words


You know the story - the immigrant who comes to these shores with nothing but a
dream, a cardboard suitcase and the shirt on his back. Last year, 6,553
immigrants began new lives in Palm Beach County, about 800 in the Treasure
Coast. They came from dozens of countries and every continent but Antarctica.

The first years may be tough for many immigrants, but if you cruise the county
roads, you'll see their dreams in full blossom - nurseries, restaurants,
computer wholesalers, motels, construction companies.

You'll see signs in Persian, catch the aromas of Ethiopian cooking, down a
Guinness served cool by an Irish publican.

The newcomers may share no common language, religion or political perspective,
but they share the dream of owning their own business. We found four who came,
saw and conquered.

Arantxa Ormazabal comes from the isolated and mountainous Basque region of
Spain, where French, Castilian and Moorish cultures collided for centuries with
the ancient ways of the Basques. Always, the Basques prevailed. Their language
is so old nobody can trace its roots. Their food is an expression of their
pride.

Arantxa means "thorn" in the old Basque language. The Irish name their girls
Rose in sentimental denial of their hard land and harder lives. The Basques get
to the point: Life is beautiful, but beauty comes with a price. Their statues of
the Virgin stand in a ring of thorns. To name a girl for the thorn is not to
deny her beauty but to affirm her hardiness.

Arantxa, 45, has owned Napoleon Pastries in West Palm Beach for 13 years. She
works 16 hours a day. Her husband has been very ill for four years. She cares
for him. The medical bills grow. She raises her sons, 18 and 16.

She makes her pastries, full of light dough, sweet jams, powdered sugar. Her
store is an edible still life, a symphony of waist-broadening sweets and hot
loaves of crusty bread.

The store is her dream - sometimes her nightmare, she says with a smile. She is
so busy, so tired, she says.

Someday, she says, she will take a holiday to her hometown of St. Sebastian, to
the mountains of Basque, where life is hard as granite and thorns abundant.

But, she says, where there is a thorn, there is a flower.

David Chiang grew up on the hillsides of Hong Kong, where compulsory education
ended at fifth grade, and too many people scrambled for too few jobs, apartments
and exit visas.

He came to the U.S. with his father 26 years ago, to Hughes, Ark., population
1,633. "I am a hillbilly," he says.

He met his wife, Dona, at Memphis State. They married after graduation. He
managed hotels; she took care of the babies. The children are 14, 12 and 9 now.
The get straight A's in school.

The Chiangs maxed out on the Visa card in 1990: $ 5,000. They used the money to
buy a tiny bakery in West Palm Beach, 350 square feet of floor space, hardly any
inventory.

Today, their Forest Hill store, Fortune Cookie, covers 5,000 square feet. Its
shelves are high and stocked, the aisles crowded with shoppers who seek the
culinary wonders of the East. The place is as busy as the Hong Kong stock
exchange.

A glass tank contains live snake-head fish. Their skin looks like a python, body
like a fat eel. A delicacy, says David, 46.

The Chiangs work more than 12 hours a day, six days a week, at least 90 hours a
week, says David. "Each," says Dona. They are high-energy people, they say.

They don't include all the business paperwork in those 90 hours because they do
the paperwork at home, with the kids.

Someday, says David, we'll take a vacation.

As he speaks, a snake-head fish launches itself out of the tank, flops onto the
floor behind a spice display. David gets on all fours to look for it.

You see, he says, I get to go fishing while I work.

Pablo Gil had the dream, all right. He left Cuba 18 years ago without a
suitcase. He had nothing to pack. He can't even say he got here with just the
shirt on his back. On the voyage from Cuba, on a boat stuffed with 80 people, he
gave his daughter his shirt to her keep dry.

But he got here, with his wife, Barbara, and two small children. Then he worked
for 15 years as a plumber's assistant. Barbara sewed leather in a Riviera Beach
factory. They saved pennies first, then dollars.

They dreamed their dream: to own their own restaurant.

The dream sustained them through 15 years of rotten pipes for Pablo, 15 years of
raw fingers pickled by tannery chemicals for Barbara.

There was always the dream.

It is named Rincon Restaurant. It opened for business March 22 on South Dixie
Highway in West Palm Beach.

Kanu Parikh spent his first 57 years living and working near Bombay, India. He
worked his way up in a textile factory, from clerk to general manager. In 1983,
the company rewarded him with a world tour. He visited the United States. He saw
possibilities for his children, their children.

He went home, talked with his wife and three children. The kids said, yes, move
to the U.S., for the opportunities.

Parikh moved his family here in 1986 but not to secure his own happiness. For
his children, he says. He bought the Mount Vernon Motor Lodge in West Palm
Beach. He whitewashed the walls, tossed out the junkies, planted flowers,
scrubbed the floors. The floral beds look as if they're vacuumed. Floors shine.
You have to remind yourself: This is an old motel in West Palm Beach.

He has not taken a day off in 10 years. He rises at 5:30 a.m., says his prayers
and works until 11 p.m..

"I can adjust to anything life offers," he says. "The Hindu way teaches that
life offers much, but you must be careful not to lose yourself, your soul. I
have put my blood, my soul, my heart into this motel. But it does not own me."

"I will die only once, but I have to live every day. I have to grow. I could
grow in a desert. Life is opportunity."

He will soon take his first vacation in more than a decade. He is going home, to
India, to visit his family.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & 2 B&W), 1. (C) ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer, Arantxa
Ormazabal, owner of Napoleon Pastries in West Palm Beach for 13 years, comes
from Spain's Basque region. Her first name means 'thorn.' But, she says, where
there is a thorn, there is a flower., 2. (C) LIU XIN/Staff Photographer, Dona
and David Chiang work 90 hours ('each,' Dona emphasizes) a week at their Fortune
Cookie grocery store on Forest Hill Boulevard. David was born in Hong Kong, and
grew up in Arkansas., 3. (B&W) STEPHANIE WELSH/Staff Photographer, After 15
years of scrimping and saving, Cuban immigrants Barbara and Pablo Gil are
realizing their dream of owning a restaurant. They opened the Rincon Restaurant
on South Dixie Highway in March., 4. (B&W) JENNIFER PODIS/Staff Photographer,
Kanu Parikh came from India 10 years ago. He has completely renovated the Mount
Vernon Motor Lodge on Belvedere Road.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              218 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 24, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SENATE PANEL OKS BILL GRANTING RESIDENCY STATUS TO 50,000 HAITIANS

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Haitian refugees won a key victory Thursday as the Senate Judiciary Committee
approved a bill to grant permanent residency status to approximately 50,000
refugees who arrived in the United States before 1996.

The bill, originally sponsored by Florida Sens. Bob Graham, a Democrat, and
Connie Mack, a Republican, next goes to the Senate floor.

A spokesman for Graham said his office has been promised by the Senate
leadership that the bill will come up for a vote either by itself or as part of
more comprehensive legislation. If it passes the Senate by itself, the bill
faces strong opposition in the House from Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of
the Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.

The bill would apply to three groups of Haitians: those who sought asylum; those
who were paroled into the United States after a prescreening; and children who
either entered the United States without their parents or who were orphaned
after arriving here. In each case the deadline for action would have been Dec.
31, 1995.

A similar bill giving permanent residency status to Guatemalans, Nicaraguans and
Salvadorans - which qualifies them for a green card enabling them to work - was
adopted last year, but Haitian refugees were left out.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who sponsored a substitute to the Graham-Mack bill
along with Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., said the Haitian bill was ''an issue
of fairness'' because they should have been included in last year's legislation.

Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., objected to the bill, claiming it was more lenient to
Haitians than to immigrants from Central America who had to go to court and
prove they had been in the United States for seven years. But Kennedy argued
that the bill did not go as far in granting relief to Haitians residents - about
50,000 of whom would not qualify because they did not seek asylum - as to other
groups.

Joining Kyl in opposing the bill were Sens. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., and John
Ashcroft, R-Mo.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              219 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               May 13, 1998, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 124 words


PALM BEACH - Three men and a woman were arrested by U.S. Border Patrol agents
Tuesday on smuggling charges after a failed attempt to sneak 15 immigrants onto
Palm Beach as condominium residents were enjoying the sunrise. Eleven men and
four women from Ecuador were discovered hiding in seagrapes just before 7 a.m.
Border Patrol agents later arrested an Ecuadoran woman, a Puerto Rican man and
two Cuban men in connection with the scheme. According to Art Bullock, Border
Patrol agent in charge, immigrants paid $ 7,500 each for a trip that was to take
them to New York. The identities of the four arrested were withheld until their
first court appearance today. The 15 immigrants were taken to the Krome
Detention Center near Miami.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              220 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 13, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS NABBED OFF PALM BEACH

BYLINE: Tim Pallesen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


Three men and a woman were arrested by U.S. Border Patrol agents Tuesday on
smuggling charges after a failed attempt to sneak 15 immigrants onto Palm Beach
as condominium residents were enjoying the sunrise.

Eleven men and four women from Ecuador were discovered hiding in seagrapes
minutes after Larry Abrams, of 3120 S. Ocean Blvd., telephoned Palm Beach police
to say people were jumping from a boat in the surf at 6:39 a.m.

Border Patrol agents later arrested an Ecuadoran woman, a Puerto Rican man and
two Cuban men in connection with the scheme. According to Art Bullock, Border
Patrol agent in charge, immigrants paid $ 7,500 each for a trip that was to take
them to New York.

One immigrant told an agent she would have to work off her fee once she got to
New York.

The identities of the four arrested were withheld until their first court
appearance today. The 15 immigrants were taken to the Krome Detention Center
near Miami.

Bullock, a local Border Patrol agent for 14 years, said immigrants from Ecuador
usually enter the United States through Mexico.

''This is highly unusual. I've never seen this before,'' he said.

The immigrants set sail first for the Dominican Republic, where they were
detained by immigration authorities but later released, Bullock said after
interviewing them. Then they were flown using fake passports to Nassau in the
Bahamas, where agents say they were transported by boat to South Florida.

A smaller 25-foot boat operated by the two Cuban men met them 4 miles off shore
before daybreak Tuesday, Bullock said.

''It was like unloading the mother ship out there,'' he said.

The investigation is continuing to determine the extent of the smuggling
operation.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, A group of 15 illegal
immigrants holds hands as they are led off the beach by police Tuesday morning.
The immigrants were spotted by a condo resident, who called police. They were
taken to the Krome Detention Center near Miami.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              221 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 14, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLING TIED TO N.Y. WOMAN

BYLINE: Scott Hiaasen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 141 words


A smuggling operation that brought 14 Ecuadorian nationals through the Bahamas
to the shores of Palm Beach on Tuesday appears to have been orchestrated by a
Yonkers, N.Y., woman, court records show.

The woman, Yvonne Marchena Mulligan, 38, was one of four people arrested by U.S.
Border Patrol agents on charges of trying to secretly land the immigrants in the
United States.

One of the suspected smugglers, Rolando Barcelo of Miami, said he and his
roommate, Gregorio Nelson Cabrera, brought the Ecuadorians here from Freeport in
a 25-foot boat at the urging of Mulligan and Dien Rodriguez, court records show.
Mulligan and Rodriguez were arrested Tuesday when they met with Cabrera and
Barcelo.  The immigrants told Border Patrol agents they paid $ 7,500 for the
trip.

Staff researcher Sammy Alzofon contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              222 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 14, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SLOW IMMIGRANT TIDE OR HELP POOR INS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 129 words


I am not against immigration - just the millions being processed into the United
States yearly.

High immigration is creating problems of crowding, joblessness and inadequate
education. Welfare and Social Security are in serious jeopardy. I fear that our
identity as Americans will surely be lost in a potpourri of nationalities and
religions.

Our government needs to set smaller limits on the numbers of immigrants allowed
in or devise a plan to assist the Immigration and Naturalization Service with
the overwhelming task it has.

A possible solution: Give INS a break (and slow down immigration somewhat) by
accepting applications for residency only during even-numbered years. The odd
years could be the catch-up years for INS.

Lenna Marshall

Okeechobee

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              223 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   May 18, 1998, Monday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

IN BRIEF

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 166 words


Twenty-four area high school students, including Freddie Evans of Suncoast High
School in Riviera Beach, received Congressional Awards at Sunday's ceremony at
Martin County High School. The awards are given to students who spend six to
seven months of the school year collecting hours - 100 of volunteer work, 50 of
personal development and 50 of physical fitness. Since 1985, 300 students in
Martin County have received the award, whether bronze, silver or gold. Winners
since then in St. Lucie County number 188; in Palm Beach County, 50. Evans, who
received a bronze award, was the only Palm Beach County student honored Sunday.

JUPITER - Sixteen Haitian immigrants came ashore Sunday in a 25-foot boat that
washed up near Tequesta. Jupiter police stopped three men at Alternate A1A and
U.S. 1 about 4:30 a.m., Jupiter police Sgt. Michael Goad said. Another 13
immigrants were found during the morning and were turned over to the U.S. Border
Patrol, a sheriff's dispatcher said.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              224 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                May 21, 1998, Thursday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 180 words


Environmentalists, a half-dozen Florida congressmen and half the state Cabinet
say two bills awaiting Gov. Lawton Chiles' signature could jeopardize Everglades
restoration. But the Army Corps of Engineers commander in charge of much of that
work, Col. Joe Miller said in a recent letter to his bosses that the
legislation, backed by the sugar industry, ''essentially has no impact'' on the
multibillion-dollar projects.

STUART - The Treasure Coast is getting federal help in dealing with illegal
immigrants who have committed serious crimes. St. Lucie and Martin counties will
receive more than $ 50,000 from the Department of Justice to help pay for the
cost of incarcerating undocumented immigrants convicted of felony or misdemeanor
offenses, U.S. Sen. Bob Graham said Wednesday. Martin County will get $ 44,317,
St. Lucie, $ 7,280. In total, Florida counties will receive $ 20 million in
federal money from the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, Graham said.
Since 1995 the program has paid $ 624 million to reimburse states for housing
criminal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              225 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                May 23, 1998, Saturday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

AGENTS HOLD 5 MEN DROPPED BY BOAT OFF JUPITER ISLAND;
4 INDIANS, 1 BAHAMIAN ON THEIR WAY TO KROME

BYLINE: Jill Taylor, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 224 words

DATELINE: PORT SALERNO


 Five men who were apparently dropped off by boat on the north end of Jupiter
Island early Friday were turned over to Border Patrol agents after they were
found wandering around the island.
   Four of the men said they were from India and a fifth, identified as Lennox
Burrows, said he was from the Bahamas.
 Burrows said the group started out from the northern Bahama islands Thursday
afternoon, heading for Palm Beach. He told reporters he knew nothing about
smuggling undocumented immigrants into the country. He said he thought the trip
was to pick up some tents in Palm Beach.
   Martin sheriff's marine deputy John Howell said there was no sign of a boat
or the boat captain in the area.
   A ranger at the National Wildlife Refuge said she thought there was one more
man in the group who got away.
   But Art Bullock, a Border Patrol supervisor in West Palm Beach, said after
interviewing two of the Indian men through an interpreter that he thought it was
unlikely there was anyone else.
   Bullock said it's not uncommon for Indians to attempt to enter this country
illegally because government red tape and lack of money make it tough for
everyday citizens in India to get a visa to enter the United States.
   All five men will be taken to the Krome Avenue Detention Center in Miami-Dade
County.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), JASON NUTTLE/Staff Photographer, Lennox Burrows of the
Bahamas waits as a Border Patrol agent question four Indians suspected of being
illegal immigrants.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              226 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 7, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

NEW FINGERPRINT CENTER TO EASE CITIZENSHIP BACKLOG

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 666 words


More than 150,000 fingerprint cards attached to citizenship applications are out
of date, causing a new bottleneck in the already bulging backlog facing 1.6
million people waiting to become citizens.

To chip away at the backlog, the federal government is creating 67
fingerprinting centers across the country - including one scheduled to open next
month in West Palm Beach.

The office at 2501 Bristol Drive near Palm Beach International Airport will
become the seventh fingerprinting center in Florida opened by DynCorp, a Reston,
Va., company under contract with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The fingerprint bottleneck was caused by the crush of applications in the past
two years and clashing procedures within the bureaucracy.

The INS requires new criminal background checks if an application is not
processed within 15 months.

And the FBI refuses to do background checks without a fresh fingerprint card.
The original cards can't be reused because they already are marked with FBI
notations, said Billy Martin, an FBI fingerprint operations manager.

Since applicants now face a 24-month delay while the INS reviews their
applications, the waiting line for many has become a circle.

Immigrant rights groups claim that 500,000 applicants already fingerprinted are
caught in the secondary logjam.

''I can't understand why it's taking them so long,'' complained Jussi Laine, 42,
a West Palm Beach postal carrier who had his fingerprints taken twice in the
past two years. He isn't finished. The INS is demanding one more set of prints,
saying the prints he inked in November at a private passport agency weren't good
enough.

The fingerprint lag is one of the complaints in a lawsuit filed against the INS
May 21 by the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami. The suit contends that
the INS is required by law to approve or deny applications within four months of
applicants taking citizenship exams.

Laine, who moved to the United States in 1959 from Finland, said his two-year
wait for citizenship is far from over. The INS notified him in January that he
would be contacted as to when and where to take his third fingerprinting.

''I haven't heard anything. They just leave me in the dark,'' said Laine, who
has complained to his congressman, U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach.

Congress forced the INS to take direct control over fingerprinting because tens
of thousands of applicants, including hundreds of convicted criminals, gained
citizenship in recent years without the required criminal checks.

The INS said fingerprints taken by passport agencies had a high rate of
technical and biographical errors.

''There were tremendous problems due to human error,'' said Andrew Lluberes, an
INS spokesman.

In December, DynCorp took over fingerprinting for citizenship applications.
Three months later, the INS began referring work permits, green cards, adoptions
and all other immigration services requiring prints to DynCorp.

Lluberes said DynCorp will convert to digital imaging of fingerprinting sometime
next year, reducing to about two hours the time needed to send fingerprints to
the FBI and receive verification of no criminal record. A response now takes 35
days, he said.

All fingerprinting is done by appointment set by the INS and costs applicants $
25. Those with expired or unusable fingerprint cards will not be charged a
second time, said INS spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar.

The West Palm Beach office is expected to employ seven DynCorp technicians and
one INS manager when it opens in midto late-July. Until then, applicants from
Boca Raton to Fort Pierce must drive to Davie in Broward County or to Orlando
for fingerprinting. DynCorp has six Florida offices, three of them in Miami-Dade
County. The sixth office is in Tampa.

''Given the large number of applications in Florida, I don't think that's
enough,'' said Cheryl Little, an attorney for the Miami advocacy group suing the
immigration service.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) & MAP (B&W), 1. (C) RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer, West
Palm Beach postal carrier Jussi Laine has been asked for a third set of
fingerprints. The INS told him this set wasn't clear enough., 2. (B&W) MARK
HEMPHILL/Staff Artist, Location of fingerprint center

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              227 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 11, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLERS HIT BEACHES WITH NEW GADGETRY

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 398 words


Smugglers depositing immigrants on South Florida beaches are perfecting the
quick getaway - using cellular phones to summon taxis to whisk their clients to
freedom before police arrive.

The portable phones, as well as police scanners and satellite navigation
receivers, are some of the tools smugglers use to lessen their chances of
getting caught.

''They are using a little bit more sophisticated means,'' said Keith Roberts, a
spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol. ''But we are getting a little bit better
at catching them.''

This year, the Riviera Beach office of the Border Patrol has taken into custody
112 immigrants who landed on the beach from Boca Raton north to Sebastian in
Indian River County.

Along the entire South Florida coast, arrests are running three times as high as
last year.

''Until we get tropical storm activity, this will go on,'' said Art Bullock,
chief of the Border Patrol station at Riviera Beach.

Bullock says smugglers are at their peak this time of the year because of flat
seas and coastal areas darkened to protect nesting sea turtles.

Some smugglers use hand-held navigational positioning devices to find secluded
beaches.

Since April 1, Bullock's agents have caught 60 Haitians, 43 Indians and 14
Ecuadorans coming ashore. All passed through the Bahamas. Those from India flew
to the Middle East, Cuba and Nassau before finding smugglers in the Bahamas to
take them by boat to the United States.

Beaches in Palm Beach and southern Martin counties are preferred by smugglers
because they are closest to Grand Bahama Island, 60 miles due east, Bullock
said. Smugglers are also drawn north because they think Miami and Fort
Lauderdale have more coastal surveillance, he said.

Six smugglers have been charged since January and others are under
investigation. Two of those arrested were Haitians who lived in the Bahamas and
accompanied the immigrants on the crossing but had no plans to stay themselves.
They carried airline tickets for their return to the Bahamas.

Haitians use the Bahamas as a stopover because it's midway between Haiti and the
United States and has a large resident Haitian population.

''They stay there hiding out for a month or two while their relatives here raise
money for the smuggler to bring them over,'' Bullock said.

Anyone who spots suspicious activity can call the Border Patrol at 848-6161.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (C), SEAN TEVIS/Staff Artist, Beach landings, Calm seas draw
more smugglers' boats as summer nears.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              228 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 21, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

RIVIERA BEACH POLICE CATCH 11 HAITIAN IMMIGRANTS DOCKING ON SINGER ISLAND

BYLINE: Africa Ragland, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Police caught 11 Haitians early Saturday morning as they docked their boat at
Ocean Reef Park just north of the Hilton Inn on Singer Island.

One woman and 10 men were turned over to the U.S. Border Patrol station in
Riviera Beach and were later taken to the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Miami, said Art Bullock, head of the local Border Patrol station.

''They drove their boat up onto the beach, and sheriff's deputies and Riviera
Beach police rounded them up and called us,'' he said.

Including the group that came ashore Saturday, 75 Haitian immigrants have been
captured since April 1 on beaches from Boca Raton to Sebastian in Indian River
County. On June 13, four Haitians were captured after they were dropped off a
boat and waded ashore near the 400 block of South Ocean Boulevard in Manalapan.
Another 15 came ashore on June 10 in Palm Beach.

Bullock has said the weather conditions are ideal for smuggling immigrants, and
there has been a surge of beach landings this spring. Beaches in Palm Beach and
southern Martin Counties are favored because they are close to Grand Bahama
Island, 60 miles east. Also, smugglers think Miami and Fort Lauderdale have more
coastal surveillance.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              229 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 23, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 213 words


A federal judge has revoked the $ 200,000 bond for a Yonkers, N.Y., woman
thought to be the ringleader of an immigrant smuggling operation that brought 14
Ecuadorians to Palm Beach last month. Yvonne Mulligan was released from custody
May 20 after her brother-in-law, Bernardo Cardoso, agreed to sign over some
properties he owned in Broward County to secure the bond. Prosecutors now say
they don't believe Cardoso owns those properties, and he apparently sold one a
month before Mulligan's bond hearing. Mulligan's lawyer filed papers saying
Cardoso does own the parcels but forgot to place the deeds in public records.
Mulligan is being held at the Palm Beach County Jail.

WEST PALM BEACH - Jean Camilus, 37, was sentenced Monday to the time he has
spent in jail after pleading guilty to 20 counts of driver license fraud and 20
counts of perjury. Camilus, a Lake Worth resident who was suspected of staging
at least 60 traffic collisions in which other Haitian immigrants were paid up to
$ 1,000 each to pose as injured passengers, will be deported to Haiti, according
to court records. Camilus often was involved in collisions in which the other
drivers were elderly motorists in late-model cars, sometimes on vacation from
other states, accident reports show.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              230 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               June 27, 1998, Saturday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FAKE ID OPERATION BROKEN UP;
GUATEMALAN PAPERS DISCOVERED IN RAID

BYLINE: Sally D. Swartz, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


U.S. Border Patrol agents Friday were questioning a suspect after they busted a
''huge'' fake immigration documents operation.

Agents raided a home in the 1500 block of Seminole Street Thursday, where they
found large numbers of U.S. and Guatemalan immigration documents, including
Social Security cards, green cards, laminating equipment, and special
watermarked paper used to make birth certificates in Guatemala.

Agent Louis Posada would not identify the suspect, who has not yet been charged.
''We're hoping he might cooperate with the investigation,'' he said.

Posada said Mexican citizens may have been buying documents to certify
themselves as Guatemalans. As Guatemalans, they could apply for political asylum
in the U.S. Though immigration authorities ultimately would reject the asylum
requests, the process could take a year.

The Guatemalan citizenship packages sold for $ 800, Posada said.

Agents seized laminating equipment that produces special markings ''pretty
close'' to valid documents, more than 100 blank Guatemalan national
identification papers, stacks of birth certificate paper, two guns, two
typewriters and a word processor.

''We're waiting for lab reports on fingerprints and other clues,'' said Art
Bullock, patrol agent in charge of the investigation. ''We're still trying to
determine how long this guy was in business, how much money he made, what print
shops were helping him.''

Some of the documents may have been stolen from the Guatemalan consulate, Posada
said. Officials also will review the immigration service's political asylum
files to compare with confiscated documents.

''We've kicked off an investigation that could last quite awhile,'' Posada said.

Andres Cruz, director of Corn Maya, a community organization for Guatemalan
refugees, disputes the theory other nationals would apply for Guatemalan
citizenship to try to get political asylum.

''That may have been true in 1986 or 1988,'' Cruz said, ''but not now.''

Since a peace accord was signed in 1996, few requests for asylum have been
granted, he said.

But Bullock said Mexicans would buy the papers just to gain a year's time
working in the U.S. Cruz said Guatemalans are working with U.S. legislators,
trying to get permanent resident status for Guatemalans, Hondurans and Haitians
who came to the U.S. before the peace accord was signed.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run West.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              231 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  July 4, 1998, Saturday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

HOLIDAY A 'NATURAL' FOR IMMIGRANT KIDS

BYLINE: Douglas Belkin, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


A quarter-mile away from Marc Levinson's home, three uniformed guards watch over
his community, Newport Bay Club.

But despite that security, Levinson and his wife, Kathleen, still worry about
their son, Peter. The couple adopted the Vietnamese boy 3 years ago and have
worried ever since because he wasn't born here.

''You never think anything could happen, but you just don't know,'' Marc
Levinson said. ''Nobody's going to be able to say 'Hey, you know that
immigration law? Well, we changed our mind.' ''

This afternoon in Miami, Peter Walsh Levinson, now 4, will wave a red, white and
blue flag, hear some big words like ''constitution'' and ''enemies foreign and
domestic'' and, along with 13 other foreign-born orphans, become a naturalized
citizen of the United States.

Standing nearby will be Gloria and Jean-Louis Quellier and their Colombian-born
daughter, Daisy, and Stuart and Gayle Coleman Rader and their Siberian-born
daughter, Sasha, all of Boca Raton.

None expects to remain dry-eyed.

''He is our miracle,'' Kathleen Levinson said. ''And he is being made a citizen
on the Fourth of July.''

The swearing-in ceremony will cap a naturalization process that began with calls
to lawyers when most of the children were still in their native countries. Held
for four years as part of Miami's Independence Day Celebration, the ceremony
completes each child's citizenship requirements.

The Raders realized the importance of that process when they got off the plane
in Miami after flying from Siberia with their newly adopted 11-month-old
daughter.

They said they considered themselves blessed when the platinum-haired child
leapt into their arms when she saw her new parents.

''It was like she was fuel-injected,'' Stuart Rader said.

But the immigration line didn't recognize spiritual connections: ''Everybody
else was getting off and walking away, and we were watching them through this
glass,'' Gayle said. ''They were so close, but they weren't. We couldn't go
because (Sasha) didn't have a passport. It was a real lesson . . . but tomorrow
-tomorrow will be closure.''

''It means now we are from here,'' said Gloria Quellier, an immigrant from
Columbia.  ''America is part of me.''


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              232 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    July 29, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

BANK BILKER CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING 25 IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Tim Pallesen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 351 words


A South Palm Beach man who had pleaded guilty to bilking about $ 6 million from
Kuwaiti lenders is in Palm Beach County jail on charges of smuggling 25 Indian
immigrants into the United States.

William ''Ben'' Pace, 53, was arrested Sunday after his 51-foot sailboat Lazy
Lady was stopped by U.S. Customs agents about two miles offshore of Riviera
Beach. Agents found the illegal immigrants hiding below deck.

Pace is being held without bond.

Agents had been tipped that the sailboat wasn't flying the yellow quarantine
flag required when any boat enters U.S. waters from another country.

The immigrants, who were transported to the Krome Detention Center in Miami,
later told Border Patrol agents that they had boarded Pace's boat in Nassau
after flying from Havana.

Agents later found Pace's credit cards and $ 18,500 cash in a secret compartment
in the captain's desk, the report said. Another $ 2,100 was found elsewhere on
the sailboat.

Pace, of 3543 S. Ocean Blvd., was still on state probation when arrested Sunday.
He had pleaded guilty in January 1992 to grand theft for diverting the Bank of
Kuwait money to cover his gambling debts at Atlantic City casinos.

State prosecutors at the time said Pace stole up to $ 6 million in an elaborate
shell game in which he borrowed money from the Kuwaiti bankers, promising to
repay it after selling packages of home loans.

Pace began borrowing from the United Bank of Kuwait in 1987 while acting as the
chief financial officer at the now-defunct Congress Mortgage Corp. of West Palm
Beach. The bank extended his line of credit to $ 14 million.

The state comptroller's office closed Congress Mortgage after homeowners paying
their mortgages were notified from Kuwait in 1989 that their payments were
overdue.

The money had been funneled into Pace's personal accounts to pay off his
''rather large gambling debts'' and other expenses, prosecutors said.

Pace lost his mortgage broker's license, but a state judge ordered him to find a
way to repay the Kuwaiti bankers at least $ 50 a month for the lost millions -
or go to prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), William "Ben" Pace (mug)

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              233 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 11, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN DROWNS AFTER SMUGGLER LEAVES 33 IN SURF

BYLINE: Tim Pallesen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


A 25-year-old Haitian woman drowned Monday when a smuggler left her and 32 other
immigrants on a sandbar about 100 yards off the Jupiter Inlet.

Benette Dorsonne struggled in heavy surf after one or more smuggling boats
dropped the immigrants on the sandbar south of the inlet at about 4:30 a.m. The
sandbar was in waist-deep water, and the immigrants were told to swim the final
100 yards of deeper water, investigators said.

Palm Beach County sheriff's investigators said Dorsonne's body washed ashore at
5:45 a.m., five minutes before the first rescue boat - a 21-foot inflatable
Coast Guard raft - reached the sandbar. The Coast Guard delayed its rescue of 13
immigrants who were still stranded on the sandbar until a larger sheriff's boat
arrived.

Five police agencies responded to the earliest report, which came from a
pre-dawn fisherman who flagged down a Jupiter patrol officer at 4:55 a.m.

''Our report was that people were screaming out in the water,'' said officer
John Roberts of the U.S. Coast Guard station in Riviera Beach. A sheriff's
helicopter pilot confirmed the report from the air. Then another Jupiter patrol
officer found two soaked Haitian men at the intersection of State Road A1A and
Indiantown Road.

The surviving immigrants, including 19 who successfully swam to shore, told
investigators they paid $ 350 to board two boats in Freeport, Bahamas, at 9 p.m.
Sunday, the sheriff's office said. A total of 27 men and 5 women were taken by
the U.S. Border Patrol late Monday to the Krome Detention Center near Miami. One
woman, Myrtha Camille, was treated at Jupiter Medical Center earlier in the day,
investigators said.

Addison Hepburn, 44, the Bahamian boat captain who investigators believe
smuggled some of the immigrants on a 23-foot outboard was arrested from that
boat about 1 mile south of the inlet and 50 yards offshore shortly before 7:30
a.m. He was arrested by the Border Patrol on charges of smuggling illegal
immigrants.

In addition to federal smuggling charges, Hepburn may be charged with murder for
Dorsonne's death, the sheriff's office said.

Dorsonne's death is the fifth time in 10 years that an immigrant has drowned
during a smuggling attempt on Palm Beach County and Treasure Coast beaches. In
October 1981, 33 Haitian immigrants drowned after their leaky, wooden sailboat
broke up in rough surf less than a half-mile from the Hillsboro Beach in Broward
County. The 34 others aboard the boat survived.

The most recent drownings were in 1994 when four immigrants drowned off the
Martin County coast after a smuggler known as Captain Jump Off made the
immigrants get out in the ocean. Officials have been looking for that captain,
Richard B. Barker of West Palm Beach. A federal warrant was issued for his
arrest on Feb. 20, but he disappeared. The warrant said he violated probation
after serving less than four years in prison.

The Border Patrol and sheriff's office were still searching late Monday for more
boats and smugglers after Hepburn told investigators that two boats left the
Bahamas on Sunday night.

''There might have even been a third boat,'' said Keith Roberts, the Border
Patrol's assistant chief in South Florida. ''We're still investigating to knit
this entire smuggling conspiracy together.''

Dorsonne's father, who has a green card and lives in Palm Beach County, and
Camille's husband, who is seeking political asylum here, knew of the overnight
smuggling attempt.

The Coast Guard raft arrived an hour after the initial report to Jupiter police.
But the officer in charge decided not to attempt a rescue of the 13 immigrants
still stranded in heavy surf on the sandbar. The raft was too unstable and he
feared the 13 might try to avoid rescue and go into deeper water, said John
Roberts, the Coast Guard spokesman.

''The boat driver felt he'd better wait for the larger sheriff's boat and get
them all in one fell swoop,'' he said. ''Haitians have a tendency to scramble in
a situation like that.''

The 13 were rescued at 6:55 a.m., while two dozen police officers continued
searching the shoreline. A fisherman, Harold Hutchinson of Tequesta, led a
deputy to three men hiding among sea grapes around 7 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C) & GRAPHIC (C), 1. GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, Benette
Dorsonne's body lies on the beach after she drowned in a smuggling attempt early
Monday. The 25-year-old Haitian woman hoped to join her father, Joseph, who
lives in Delray Beach., 2. LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer, These Haitian
immigrants are among 32 taken into custody Monday in Jupiter after being
smuggled from the Bahamas. Relatives of some, who knew in advance of the
journey, urged them not to attempt it., 3. SEAN TEVIS/Staff Artist, Woman drowns
in surf, Thirty-three Haitians are dropped off on a sandbar 100 yards from
shore. One woman drowns. A boat captain is taken into custody about 50 yards
from shore., SOURCE: Post staff research

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              234 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 11, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SEEK BETTER LIFE BEYOND BEACH

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 457 words


Frustrated by unfulfilled promises of prosperity, hundreds of Haitians are
abandoning their impoverished nation for a new life that begins on South Florida
beaches.

Since spring, 173 Haitians were taken into custody coming ashore in Palm Beach,
Martin and St. Lucie counties. Hundreds more have been turned back by the U.S.
Coast Guard on the high seas.

An incalculable number make it to shore under cover of night and blend into
Haitian-American communities, community leaders say.

''I would say there is a boat coming in every other day,'' said Daniella Henry,
coordinator of the Haitian American Community Council in Riviera Beach. She said
the boats probably bring from 50 to 60 Haitians a week.

The tide of Haitian immigrants this summer is the largest since the political
turmoil from 1991 to 1994 caused by the Haitian military's ouster of
democratically elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

''What Haitians had hoped for when Aristide returned isn't what they have
received,'' said the Rev. Mario Roosevelt Lusma, a Haitian-American pastor and
radio commentator in West Palm Beach. He said Haiti's poor economy and soaring
cost of living are forcing the migration.

''There are still some political pressures, but they are trying to flee to get a
better life,'' Lusma said.

About 200 Haitians a month are intercepted on the high seas by U.S. Coast Guard
patrol boats, said Miami-based Petty Officer Jeff Hall. About half of those are
found near Haiti, and the rest are caught between the Bahamas and Florida's
coastline.

The numbers are small compared to the thousands who were coming each month
before Aristide was restored to power by a U.S. invasion of Haiti in 1994, Hall
said.

Yet problems persist in Haiti, the Western Hemisphere's poorest nation. In 1996,
President Rene Preval succeeded Aristide. Since then, political infighting has
cost the Caribbean nation stability and at least $ 150 million in foreign aid.

Most of the immigrants making landfall on Florida beaches spend about two or
three weeks in the Bahamas arranging passage with smugglers, said Keith Roberts,
assistant chief agent for the U.S. Border Patrol station in Pembroke Pines.

Roberts said he doesn't know if more Haitians are coming now than in past years.
He attributed the increase in arrests to tips from coastal police agencies and
the public.

''We are seeing more cases, a slight spike in the numbers,'' Roberts said.

Since Jan. 1, the Border Patrol has arrested 258 immigrants making landfall from
Boca Raton to Fort Pierce. Among those were 173 Haitians, 58 Indians, 14
Ecuadoreans and 13 Cubans. Most of the Haitians come in small boats from the
Bahamas and during the summer months when the seas are calmer.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              235 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 22, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

INTERNET AIDS IN DEPORTATION OF IMMIGRANT CHILD MOLESTERS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


 A U.S. Border Patrol agent who came across a listing of Florida sexual
predators on the Internet conceived the idea for the newest crackdown on
criminal immigrants.
   Any immigrant, legal or illegal, is subject to deportation if convicted of a
felony sex crime.

 Now, agent Michael Flanagan is comparing the Internet's list of convicted child
molesters with the immigration service's data.
   In the nine months since Flanagan has been matching the list, 185 noncitizens
convicted of sexual attacks on children have been deported or are scheduled for
deportation.
   About a third are from Palm Beach County.
   ''Everybody in this station has taken great joy in going out and arresting
these people,'' said senior agent Brian Ball, who works with Flanagan on the
project, called Operation Child Care.
   The crackdown is one of the few Border Patrol sweeps that seems to have broad
public support.
   ''Nobody wants us to go out and arrest their lawn boy or maid, but who could
complain about arresting a child molester?'' Ball said.
   Most immigrants deported were legal residents, some living in the United
States for as long as 30 years. Although their crimes disqualified them from
citizenship, they usually were safe from being kicked out of the country.
   But a federal law passed in 1996 made noncitizens subject to detention and
deportation if convicted of serious sexual crimes.
   The law also bans them from reentering the country. If they sneak back, they
can spend 15 years in prison.
   The Border Patrol has been enforcing the 1996 law all along, working with
state probation officers to identify child molesters.
   But when the Florida Department of Law Enforcement began posting offenders on
its World Wide Web site last year, the Border Patrol's job became easier. The
posting listed the offender's name, date of birth, address and criminal history.

   ''The Internet was doing all the work that it would take us days to do,''
Flanagan said.
   He wrote up a proposal that was quickly approved by his superiors. The first
sweep in February captured 22 offenders.
   The sexual predators are charged with being deportable and taken to an
immigration detention jail to await a deportation hearing, which takes about
three weeks. Most are ineligible for bonds.
   Border Patrol sector chief Billy Kring said the Riviera Beach station's idea
is spreading to other parts of the country.
   Private immigration lawyers have no objection to deportation of chronic sex
offenders but warned that the operation may net some who don't deserve such
harsh treatment.
   Miami attorney Tammy Fox-Isicoff pointed to the case of a New York restaurant
owner who was jailed for seven months while fighting deportation for a crime
committed 24 years ago.
   Jesus Collado, 45, a Dominican immigrant, was charged with statutory rape for
having sex with his girlfriend, who was 13. Collado was 21.
   Collado was charged with statutory rape because the girl's mother thought the
threat of jail would convince Collado to marry her daughter, Fox-Isicoff said.
   A New York immigration court last month dismissed the deportation case.
   ''We like to see the immigration service enforce laws against criminals,''
said Fox-Isicoff, past president of the South Florida chapter of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. ''But we would like to see some discretion
exercised in cases such as Jesus Collado.''

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W) , 1. (C) BRIAN BALL: The senior agent works on
Operation Child Care (mug), 2. (B&W) GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, U.S. Border
Patrol agent Brian Ball uses a computer at the Riviera Beach station to access
the Internet. He uses the information to find and deport child molesters who are
not U.S. citizens.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              236 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 10, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS OKS CHANGES IN SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 146 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress has passed and sent to President Clinton, legislation revising the
Supplemental Security Income program to continue providing benefits to certain
immigrants and to disregard charitable contributions when determining children's
eligibility.

Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Republican from Fort Lauderdale, sponsored the bill,
which passed the House in September and the Senate late Thursday. The president
has indicated he will sign it.


About 4,000 immigrants - mostly elderly and disabled - who are unable to
document their immigration status will be allowed to continue receiving SSI
benefits at a cost of about $ 80 million over five years.

The bill also allows children with life-threatening illnesses to receive
charitable contributions up to $ 2,000 from organizations such as the
Make-A-Wish Foundation without jeopardizing their SSI eligibility.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Congressional Briefs

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              237 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 7, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

HISPANIC COMMUNITY UNITES, HELPS HONDURAS 'START ALL OVER'

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 800 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Hurricane Mitch's damage to Honduras runs deeper than the swollen rivers and
mudslides shown on television, says Honduran immigrant Diego Turcios.

For Turcios and other Palm Beach County residents with families in the Central
American country, the concern is not only for the safety of loved ones but the
future of their homeland.

''The whole economy is gone,'' said Turcios, of West Palm Beach, an auditor for
the state of Florida. ''There is nothing to eat, nothing to export. They will
have to start all over again.''

Turcios, whose brothers and sisters remained behind when he emigrated to the
United States in 1985, said the storm has paralyzed the country. Only one of the
nine bridges that linked the capital city Tegucigalpa with the provinces
survived, he said.

A poor country with a large external debt, Honduras will not be able to rebuild
on its own and will need ''massive aid,'' Turcios said. Tons of food, clothing,
medicines and other relief supplies are being collected by organizations in Palm
Beach County .

''This has brought the Hispanic community together like nothing else,'' said
Marita Alvarez, who was helping at a church-sponsored collection site at 106 N.
Military Trail. Among the donations was 1,000 pounds of rice from a rice farmer
in Lake Harbor in the Glades.

Ramon Vilarino, a Cuban immigrant, said he opened two of his Don Ramon
restaurants as collection sites because of humanitarian reasons.

''There are whole towns that have disappeared,'' Vilarino said. ''Gone with them
are the cattle and banana and coffee crops.''

Hondurans are facing food shortages because of transportation and power
failures.

''It is horrible,'' said Carla Delgado of West Palm Beach, whose sister lives in
a small town near the northern city of San Pedro Sula. ''She told me that food
is running out. The supermarkets open for only a few hours a day and sell only a
few pounds of rice and beans.''

Marta Suarez of West Palm Beach says she was relieved to learn her 90-year-old
mother was evacuated from the eastern town of Morolica, which flooded from the
hurricane. Suarez said her mother was taken to the capital, but her brothers
remained to salvage what was left of the family's home and grocery store.

''We used to have schools, clinics, churches and a telephone company, but all of
that is gone, my brothers told me,'' Suarez said. ''They said that when the
river went down the whole town looked like a barren beach.''

Relief collections

The Interamerican Businessmen's Association is collecting food, clothing,
medicines, sheets and blankets at Acapulco Restaurant, 10419 Southern Blvd.,
Royal Palm Beach, and Don Ramon Restaurant, 502 S. Military Trail, West Palm
Beach. Checks can be mailed to Relief Fund for Honduras, 11707 Okeechobee Blvd.,
Royal Palm Beach 33411.

A radio marathon to raise money for victims in Nicaragua and Honduras will be
aired all day Wednesday, sponsored by WPSP-1190 AM radio and El Latino Semanal.

The Nicaraguan Association of Palm Beach County is collecting goods at three
locations: 645 White Water Drive, West Palm Beach, 697-4935, evening hours; 830
31st St., Riviera Beach, 844-2430, evening hours; and Gomez & Gomez Auto Repair,
1974 Congress Ave., West Palm Beach, 439-6463, daytime hours.

The Guatemalan Maya-Quetzal Organization is collecting canned food, clothing and
medicines today and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in front of Gigante Express,
534 Belvedere Road. For information, call 588-7201.

All Tire Kingdom locations are accepting canned meats and fish, bags of dried
beans and rice, baby formula, powdered milk, over-the-counter anti-dysentery
medicines and first aid kits.

The Hurricane Mitch Honduras Relief Fund is seeking the same items plus soap,
baby bottles and powdered milk, blankets and sheets, clothing, flashlights,
batteries, tents, rope, tools, baby wipes, aspirin, bandages and other
over-the-counter medical supplies. They will be accepted at Dreher Park,
pavilion 4, in West Palm Beach or Costco Wholesale on Northlake Boulevard in
Palm Beach Gardens from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. today and Sunday. Checks can be mailed
to the relief fund at 5839 Whirlaway Road, Palm Beach Gardens 33418 or P.O. Box
31345, Palm Beach Gardens 33420. For information, call 622-7469 or 776-5704.

The Employee Activities Committee of West Boca Medical Center is accepting
non-perishable foods, baby food, drinking water, powdered or nonperishable
liquid milk, medicines, hygiene items, disposable diapers, blankets, sheets,
child and adult clothing, baby bottles, flashlights and batteries. Cash
donations can be made payable to the Honduras Relief Fund. Donations can be
delivered Monday through Friday between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. to West Boca Medical
Center, 21644 State Road 7, Boca Raton.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all Editions

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              238 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 9, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

GOP CAN UNTIE ITS IDEOLOGICAL KNOTS

BYLINE: John Leo

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 767 words


The damage done in last week's elections isn't as bad as it looks. A
reassessment of priorities is in order.

The pundit class is probably exaggerating the damage done to Republicans by the
1998 elections, just as it exaggerated the gains of 1994. Still, it's an
excellent time - especially in the wake of House Speaker Newt Gingrich's
resignation - to offer free advice to the GOP. The party should do this:

Open the party wide to Latinos. Immigrants from Latin America are the most
socially conservative and family-oriented people in America - a natural
Republican constituency.

Poll after poll shows that Latino opinion closely follows mainstream values,
including patriotism, the importance of immigrants learning English quickly, and
the need for strong immigration and border control. Latinos resent being singled
out as a problem, as some English-only and anti-immigration Republicans do.
George W. Bush talked differently and won 49 percent of the Latino vote in
Texas. Jeb Bush won 58 percent in Florida.

Reassess the party's historical contempt for environmental issues. These issues
count heavily with suburbanites and the young, and the stripping away of
environmental safeguards after the alleged '94 revolution appears to have caused
much damage.

Oppose protected classes and identity politics. Arab-Americans and the
transgendered (women who used to be men) are now protected classes in San
Francisco. Armenian-Americans are a protected class in Pasadena. Why not? If the
plan is to put all Americans in little boxes and protect each box from every
other box, then everybody is eligible for special protection while denying they
are seeking special rights.

There are signs that the culture of little boxes is breaking down, partly
because of growing tolerance and the high rate of intermarriage. Republicans
should take the high ground: Insist that we are one people, not a Balkanized set
of boxholders and protected classes.

Get over the guilt of being on the wrong side of the civil rights issue. Former
President Bush's two major pieces of legislation, the Civil Rights Act of 1991
and the Americans with Disabilities Act, both had some awful provisions that
Republicans should have caught. But fear of appearing mean usually stampedes the
party into supporting flawed social legislation.

Much disability law and litigation is out of control. In New York, most
renovations of a bathroom or a kitchen must make the facilities
wheelchair-accessible, even if it's a private dwelling with no known wheelchair
users anywhere in the family or neighborhood. (The idea is that a wheelchair
user might buy the place someday, so owners must spend a small fortune to
prepare now.) Micromanaging people's lives in their own home is supposed to be
something Republicans oppose, isn't it?

Stop running away from majority opinion. When race and gender preferences hide
under the warm and vague term ''affirmative action,'' they tend to do well in
polls. When they are out in the open under their own name, clear majorities
strike them down, as they did in California and Washington state. But
Republicans didn't help at all in Washington and actually hurt the effort in
California. Preferences represent the flawed racial politics of the past. They
are fading because Americans want openness and equal opportunity, not rigged
results. If Republican politicians can't support this honorable majority
sentiment, why are they in business at all?

Republicans should pay attention to majority opinions on abortion, too.
Majorities, usually large ones, support a ban on partial-birth abortion, a
one-day waiting period, parental notification and a ban on using public money to
agitate for abortion here or overseas. Republicans should be unembarrassed about
campaigning on these issues as a way of bringing abortion law and practice in
line with the moral sentiments of most Americans.

The obvious corollary to this is that Republicans should be reluctant to
legislate views that majorities do not accept. There should be room on
Republican tickets for people who have moral objections to abortion but who are
unwilling to impose those objections on others. The sheer political fact is that
there will be no constitutional amendment banning abortion, and professional
politicians must work within that reality.

The fight against the abortion culture is a properly a campaign of moral
persuasion now, not one of bringing opponents to heel through intimidation or
the force of law. Again, take the high ground.

John Leo is a contributing editor to U.S. News & World Report.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              239 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 14, 1998, Saturday, WEST EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 442 words


A state appellate court has upheld water managers' plans for one Everglades
cleanup while a Palm Beach County Circuit Court jury has dealt them a blow in
another. The 3rd District Court of Appeal on Thursday upheld the South Florida
Water Management District's permit for a project to clean nonsugar-farm drainage
flowing into the Everglades, despite a challenge by the Miccosukee Indian tribe.
Meanwhile, a jury Tuesday ordered the district to pay $ 9.4 million - 68 percent
more than it had offered - to the owners of 816 acres of citrus grove it
condemned west of Wellington. The district needs the farmland for its main $ 763
million Everglades cleanup.

STUART - Danuta Glazewska will be allowed to stay in the United States
indefinitely, immigration officials said Friday. The Polish woman, who had been
ordered to leave the country by Friday, won a last-minute reprieve Thursday from
the immigration office in Omaha, where she had undergone treatment for kidney
and liver transplants in recent years. Immigration District Director Jerry
Heinauer agreed that Polish hospitals are not equipped to treat double
transplant patients. The ruling allows Glazewska to stay for one year and to
renew her stay annually. Her son, Robert, 29, must apply separately for a delay
of deportation, officials said. The pair came to Stuart in 1990 for a wedding
and never returned to Poland because of Glazewska's illnesses.

WEST PALM BEACH - Alfred Washington, the Royal Palm Beach High School teacher
convicted Tuesday of lewd assault on a female student, will not be allowed out
of jail on bond while he waits to be sentenced, Circuit Judge Richard Oftedal
ruled Friday. Oftedal said the request for bond was premature since Washington
has not yet specified the grounds of his anticipated appeal. Oftedal did agree
to sentence Washington on December 18 rather than on Jan. 5, as originally
scheduled.

STUART - A move to turn over 4-year-old Amanda Adler to her natural father was
blocked Friday when Charlotte Danciu, lawyer for adoptive mother Rochelle Jaffe,
got the case moved from Martin County to Palm Beach County, Danciu said. Jaffe
has had custody of Amanda and her 6-year-old half-sister Sierra for 15 months
and has formally adopted Sierra. Jaffe, of suburban Boca Raton, has said her
former adoption lawyer, Stuart Horowitz, never sought the consent of Amanda's
natural father Scott Charlton. Danciu will argue that Charlton, now in an Ohio
prison, is unfit. Charlton has said the natural mother hid his daughter.
Horowitz, subject of Florida Bar complaints and a criminal investigation,
resigned this year in the face of disbarment.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Metro Report

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              240 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 14, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

'CAPTAIN JUMP OFF' HAD ELUDED AUTHORITIES TWICE BEFORE

BYLINE: Joe Brogan and Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 400 words


Twice in three months the notorious smuggler whom authorities dubbed ''Captain
Jump Off'' dodged capture during stings designed by U.S. Customs agents.

But the elusive Richard Barker stood Friday before a federal judge in Miami to
hear that he'll be arraigned next week on charges of conspiring to import
cocaine and violating his probation.

A fugitive for more than a year, Barker was captured Wednesday after a Bahamian
immigration official in Freeport recognized the balding, ponytailed Floridian
attempting to board a private plane to the island of Eleuthera. The immigration
inspector had kicked Barker out of the islands twice in 1994 because of his
reputation as a smuggler, said Garth Rhaming, a Bahamian immigration
superintendent.

Bahamian authorities detained Barker overnight then put him aboard a commercial
airliner bound for Florida.

Federal agents met Barker's arriving flight and ferried him to Miami-Dade County
Jail.

Barker, 46, formerly of West Palm Beach, has proven to be a slippery adversary.

In August, he cruised into the St. Lucie Inlet with a load of cocaine,
unknowingly dealing with undercover agents, according to a federal official who
mentioned the incident on the condition of anonymity.

Barker unloaded the drugs and left the inlet. Customs agents who were supposed
to apprehend Barker were instead fueling their boat, the official said. Customs
officials in Miami could not be reached Friday to confirm details of the failed
sting.

Barker again evaded capture last month in what turned into a chaotic gun-fight
with federal agents at sea.

On Oct. 14, he and four other men met a boatload of undercover agents at an
agreed-upon location about 15 miles west of Grand Bahama Island. Two of the
alleged smugglers boarded the agent's boat and began to transfer burlap sacks
containing cocaine, according to court records.

When the agents identified themselves, the two men handling the drugs jumped
back toward Barker's boat, records show. One fell into the water. Barker began
to ram his vessel into the agents' boat, Customs agent Zach Mann recalled
Friday.

A Bahamian aboard Barker's boat pulled out an M-16 rifle and law enforcement
officers fired nine shots. The metal cleats holding the ropes connecting the two
boats ripped from the deck of the agents' craft and Barker sped away.

Staff writer Gary Kane contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              241 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 17, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

DEPORTEE BUSTED ON DRUG, GUN CHARGES

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 143 words


A U.S. Border Patrol agent waiting to deport an illegal Jamaican immigrant also
found drugs and guns inside the suspect's house, officials said.

Agent Brian Ball was waiting to arrest the man as he left his home in a Westgate
apartment complex.

Ball stopped the man's car a short distance away, then returned to the suspect's
house to drop off the car keys and get the man's identification, Ball said.

An acquaintance in the house invited Ball and other agents inside, where there
were drugs, weapons and cash in plain sight, Ball said.

Agents recovered 195 grams of crack cocaine, three 9mm semi-automatic handguns,
a small amount of marijuana and several thousand dollars in cash, Ball said.

Richard Rochester, 24, who was arrested on drug charges, has an extensive record
of cocaine possession charges and other arrests, records show.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              242 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 26, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

AFTER 8 YEARS, 'MODEL DETAINEE' STILL AWAITS WORD

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Lugseged Dhine is spending his eighth year in detention and he has no idea when,
if ever, he will walk as a free man.

''I cannot tell you I will be released tomorrow or 20 years from now. I may die
here,'' said Dhine, 35, dressed in the orange jump suit worn by non-criminal
prisoners at Krome Detention Center west of Miami.

The Ethiopian refugee is mystified why he doesn't qualify for release, since he
was welcomed into the United States as a political refugee fleeing a bloodbath
in his African homeland.

Dhine admitted he made a mistake years ago when he was twice arrested in
Washington, D.C., for drug use. He served a nine-month sentence in jail and
immigration authorities were waiting when he got out. Under immigration laws,
his two misdemeanor drug convictions were enough to hold him in custody
indefinitely until he could be deported.

His deportation has been stalled for years because Dhine has successfully argued
that he would be persecuted, or worse, if he is returned to Ethiopia. He said he
left in 1978 as a 14-year-old boy after his parents and a brother were
slaughtered by the anti-Semitic regime.

Dhine said he tried to exercise his right as a Jew to emigrate to Israel, but
his application was denied by the country.

''I am the falasha, the landless one,'' said Dhine, using the Hebrew word for
highland Ethiopians who practice a variety of Judaism.

Although imprisoned, he is not idle. He's won several commendations from the
immigration service for his volunteer work and good deeds in the 15 detention
centers and county jails where he has been held since 1991.

His lawyers call him a ''jail-house hero.'' Dhine has been credited with saving
the life of a detainee in a fire and pulling a detention center guard to safety
after the guard was overcome with toxic fumes in a laundry room.

Two years ago, the chief of detention in an Arizona camp commended Dhine as a
''model detainee.'' Dhine has been at Krome since March.

''He admits he made some mistakes, but he's more than paid for those,'' said
Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. Court appeals
exhausted, Little in August appealed to U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno to
grant Dhine a special release.

Dhine uses his time consulting with detainees about their immigration appeals
and fighting for better conditions at the camp. He carries files filled with
notes from detainees asking for help.

The grievances range from indifferent workers at the camp's clinic to the lack
of privacy in bathrooms and showers, which particularly upsets Muslim detainees.

''Even murderers and rapists in prisons have their privacy,'' he said as he sat
in an outdoor visitor's area of the camp.

As he spoke, the sound of automatic weapons came from a firing range on the
south end of the Krome camp. The range is used by federal agents.

''We've got people here from Kosovo, Azerbaijan and Herzegovina,'' Dhine said.
''Can you imagine what they think when they hear gunfire?''

''It's not right,'' said Dhine, sobbing and covering his eyes with his hands.
''But we continue to fight.''

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Photo by BILL COOKE, Lugseged Dhine admits that being
arrested twice for drug use was a mistake on his part

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              243 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 28, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 179 words


MANALAPAN - U.S. Border Patrol agents and police captured five Haitians and six
Jamaicans on a beach here about 4 p.m. Sunday but were searching late Sunday for
up to six more immigrants who escaped, Border Patrol agent Art Bullock said. The
capture occurred near the same beach where agents picked up 24 Haitians at 3:30
a.m. Saturday, Bullock said. The immigrants were sent to Krome Detention Center,
he said.

LAKE WORTH - Police on Sunday continued to withhold the identity of a woman
killed Saturday in a crash with a city squad car because they had not notified
relatives about her death. The crash involved a police car driven by officer
Joseph Azzopardi.

INDIANTOWN - A 19-year-old was hospitalized after he was shot twice by people
walking by. Eleasar Gonzales was standing in the front yard at 14872 S.W. 172nd
Ave. about 8:50 p.m. Saturday when he was shot in the left arm and lower back,
said Lt. Johnnie Johnson of the Martin County Sheriff's Office. Gonzales was
treated and released from Martin Memorial Medical Center. Police are
investigating.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              244 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 19, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 180 words


NORTH PALM BEACH - Police have identified a shooting victim found Sunday
afternoon as Jason Sherrer, 22. Sherrer, of Riviera Beach, was found shot in the
head on Hummingbird Way about 1 p.m. Sunday and was taken to St. Mary's Medical
Center, where he died. There are no suspects, police said Monday.

LANTANA - U.S. Customs agents arrested a 62-year-old Orlando man at a marina
here Monday evening after they discovered nine illegal immigrants aboard the
man's 30-foot cabin cruiser, officials said. Customs agents had been "watching"
the Murrell boatyard for several days, said Customs Service spokesman Michael
Sheehan, who declined to say what agents were looking for. Monday night, James
O'Donnell brought back his boat after several days at sea. Agents approached,
asked O'Donnell about the boat and who was on board and he claimed it was
himself and a woman. Agents looked in the cabin area of the boat and discovered
a Cuban woman and 8 Haitian men, Sheehan said. O'Donnell and the immigrants were
turned over to the Border Patrol on Monday night, Sheehan said.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              245 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              January 21, 1999, Thursday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

20 REFUGEES NABBED ON BEACHES AFTER TREK FROM HAITI;
IMMIGRANTS JAMMED BOAT ON HIGH SEAS

BYLINE: Teresa Lane, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 503 words


Pierre Isaac Bozor's parents love him so much, they paid money to pack him onto
a motorboat with up to 50 other Haitians and ship him 800 miles away to the land
of the free.

Bozor, 24, and his 19-year-old cousin were among 20 Haitians rounded up on
beaches near the St. Lucie Nuclear Power Plant Wednesday after a smuggler's
28-foot Wellcraft ran aground at 8750 S. State Road A1A in Jensen Beach around 2
a.m.

Twenty-one Haitians came ashore in Boca Raton early Wednesday, and at least 150
Cuban and Haitian refugees have landed in the past six days on the coast between
Key West and St. Lucie County.

Although some authorities attribute the surge to calm seas and a possible
relaxation of restrictions by the Cuban government, a U.S. Border Patrol agent
who took the St. Lucie immigrants to a Miami detention center said word has
spread that America's arms are once again open.

''Our government has decided that if (immigrants) can get here they can stay,
and the ones who make it write back home and spread the word,'' said the agent,
who asked that his name not be used. ''I think it's a shame we spend all these
resources rounding them up just to let them go again.''

Carefully tucked among Bozor's and Rosonel Damus' meager belongings was the name
and phone number of an aunt in Fort Pierce. Border patrol agents said after
refugees a0re questioned at the Riviera Beach Border Patrol office, they receive
a medical exam and hot meal at the Krome Detention Center in Miami, where agents
notify relatives they've been found.

The cousins were not in the initial wave of 18 who were detained outside the
Admiral of Island Dunes condominiums. The two were captured about 11 hours later
as they walked along SR A1A in search of a pay phone.

Through an interpreter, Bozor said his parents paid to send him to America
because they ''couldn't stand the political and economic conditions in Haiti
anymore.'' Clad in blue jeans and Nike tennis shoes and T-shirts, both cousins
said they were students with part-time jobs and want to continue their education
in Florida.

For the first two days of their four-day journey from Arcahaie, Haiti, the
refugees had bread and cookies to eat. They had only water to drink the final
two days, and one woman fainted when seas got too rough, Bozor said.

''There were a lot of people packed on the boat and that made it rough when the
seas got high,'' said Fort Pierce police officer Ervins Hyppolite, a native of
Haiti who translated the men's comments at the U.S. Coast Guard Station
Wednesday.

''They said there were 35 to 50 people on the boat when it pulled up to shore
and the captain yelled for everybody to get off.''

St. Lucie sheriff's deputies were combing South Hutchinson Island for more
refugees Wednesday afternoon.

A helicopter was overhead while deputies in a car and all-terrain vehicle
checked public restrooms on beaches.

The Border Patrol agent said Bozor and Damus might be reunited with their aunt
in Fort Pierce in a few days.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              246 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 4, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 303 words


TEQUESTA - A pygmy sperm whale that died Tuesday several hours after beaching
itself at 350 Beach Road showed signs of being sick before its head was cut by a
boat propeller, Larry Wood, director of the Marinelife Center in Juno Beach,
said Wednesday. Scientists at the U.S. National Marine Fisheries headquarters in
Miami said the the 8-foot-long male had an internal growth, a sign of illness,
and that the head wound was severe but may not have caused the death, Wood said.

WEST PALM BEACH - Palm Tran today is dedicating a new bus center which will
house more than 80 buses and 300 employees. The bus service's rapid expansion
over the past two years drove the need for the new facility, officials said. The
ceremony will begin at 11 a.m. at the building at 3201 Electronics Way.

Hondurans and Nicaraguans lacking legal status in the United States can sign up
for temporary residency and work permits Saturday at John Prince Park in
suburban Lake Worth. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service offered
temporary residency as a humanitarian measure following the destruction in those
countries from Hurricane Mitch. Officials of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center Inc. of Miami will be at the park from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. to help with
applications. For details, call the Honduran Community Center at 964-2624 or the
Nicaraguan Association at 833-0098. The INS toll-free information number is
(888) 557-5398.

More than 640,000 people attended the 1999 South Florida Fair, a 4.5 percent
decrease from last year's turnout of 670,000, fair officials said. A number of
factors - including rain, the cancellation of the Dixie Chicks, competition with
the Super Bowl on the final Sunday, and a change in school holidays - influenced
turnout. ''We had a solid fair,'' spokesman John Picano said.


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Metro Report

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              247 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 7, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION GIVES REFUGEES CHANCE TO STAY

BYLINE: Peter Donald, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 274 words


More than 125 Central American refugees gathered at the Commodore Pavilion in
John Prince Park Saturday to fill out immigration forms that will qualify them
for temporary protected status and get work permits.

To the casual passerby, the gathering at the park west of Lake Worth looked more
like a picnic than an opportunity to fill out government paperwork. Hondurans
and Nicaraguans clustered at picnic tables sharing food and listening to Latin
music. At a nearby table, people filled forms from the Department of Justice and
picked up informational literature.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Dec. 30 that it will give
undocumented U.S. residents from those two countries temporary relief from being
deported so they can work here and send money home to assist the countries in
their economic recovery from Hurricane Mitch. The temporary protected status
will allow undocumented Nicaraguans and Hondurans to live here legally for 18
months.

The Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center of Miami organized Saturday's event.

Andrea Machado, who works for the advocacy center, said the sign-ups were
started after the local Honduran Community Center got in touch with her office.

Some of Saturday's participants didn't know their rights and were wary of giving
their names for fear of being turned in to immigration authorities.

But the relaxed and amiable atmosphere eased any tensions.

The local organizers - Sylvia Baez, Jose Cerrato and Jose Alcerro - said a
similar event will be held at the same location from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. March 27.

Florida Immigrant Advocacy can be called at (305) 573-1106.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran South

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              248 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 2, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

10 INDIAN MIGRANTS ARRESTED ON ISLAND

BYLINE: Douglas Belkin, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 196 words


Ten immigrants from Punjab, India, were arrested Monday morning on Bird Island,
where they were preparing to be taken ashore.

A Manalapan resident saw the men on the island and called authorities. Sheriff's
deputies arrested the men at 6:30 a.m. The men, all of whom were in good
condition, were taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami, said Art Bullock,
station chief for the U.S. Border Patrol in Riviera Beach.

According to Bullock, the men said they had been camping for two days on the
island, also known as Beer Can Island, located near the Boynton Inlet. They were
waiting for a boat captain to pick them up, Bullock said.

The quarter-mile-long island is about 100 yards from a Palm Beach County
Sheriff's Office substation. Deputies there said the men had not been on the
island longer than six hours.

The refugees were between 23 and 27 years old. Some had a small amount of money,
but none were carrying extra clothes or other possessions, Bullock said.

The refugees had flown from India to Havana, then to Kingston, then to Nassau,
and then took a boat from Freeport to Bird Island, Bullock said. They had been
traveling for 40 days, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              249 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                March 5, 1999, Friday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

BOAT OWNER INDICTED IN SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: Thomas R. Collins, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


A man who represented a ticket to America for 25 Haitian immigrants was indicted
Thursday on three counts of smuggling.

The Coast Guard found the Haitians aboard Russell Borruso's 28-foot boat, a 1978
Carver, on Feb. 24 after Borruso had picked them up in the Bahamas, according to
Borruso's affidavit.

Borruso, who lists his address as the city marina in Fort Pierce and has said he
lives on his boat, admitted that in exchange for the transport he got $ 25,000 -
$ 1,000 for each person.

Borruso faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a $ 750,000 fine.

''We're proud of the Coast Guard,'' Assistant U.S. Attorney Carol Wilkinson
said. ''The Coast Guard is the one that picked them up. . . . The more that come
in, the more we'll charge.''

She said the immigrants won't be charged ''because we consider them the material
witnesses against the smugglers,'' a routine practice in such cases.

The Border Patrol is investigating.

Wilkinson said illegal smuggling has not been a major problem lately.

''This is the first one I've seen this year.''

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              250 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 20, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

OPEN AMERICA'S DOOR TO GUATEMALANS, TOO

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 219 words


The March 11 article "Clinton: Treat political refugees on equal basis" is
pertinent when addressing the plight of the Guatemalan Mayans who are in the
United States in exile as a result of the state-sponsored repression against
them during the war. The Guatemalan Truth Commission has just released a report
detailing how U.S. policy was instrumental during the height of the state
violence against this population.

Present immigration laws have extended permanent residency to Nicaraguans and
Cubans but have overlooked the Guatemalans. Responsibility for direct American
involvement in Guatemala should be reflected in an immigration law that gives
residency status to Guatemalans, just as has been done for Cubans and
Nicaraguans.

The only difference is that the Guatemalans, unlike the Cubans and Nicaraguans
here, have no political clout, nor do they have a public relations firm lobbying
for their cause. It seems that nobody hears them. Their unheard cries are
reminiscent of a time in the early 1980s when indigenous Guatemalans went to the
Spanish Embassy in Guatemala City to present their grievances and were burnt
alive. They were silenced, and the world was silent.

We just have to stop and listen, for once, to the Guatemalan plight.

Aileen N. Walborsky-Josephs

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              251 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                March 28, 1999, Sunday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HISPANIC POPULATION GROWS IN TREASURE COAST

BYLINE: Dani Davies, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 444 words


Up to now, the Treasure Coast has escaped the sort of massive immigration that
has transformed the counties to the south, but it's coming. Projections indicate
that within 25 years, more than a quarter of the people living in Martin and St.
Lucie counties will be Hispanic.

The growth of the region's Hispanic population has been steady in the past
decade, according to the Southeast Center on Aging at Florida International
University. While an estimated 8 percent of the population is Hispanic today,
the percentage is expected to soar to more than 27 percent by 2025.

Throughout the region, the Hispanic influence is already being felt as schools,
courts, businesses and governments slowly adapt to the evolving population.

But the growth is so slow that Martin County officials don't see a need to make
major changes.

"2025 is pretty far into the future," said Howard Tupper, a Martin County
planner. "Our planning horizon is about 10 or 15 years ahead."

Tupper said many young Hispanic immigrants are moving out of Miami to the
suburbs of Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties seeking better housing
and jobs.

"We're going to feel that population pressure here, too," Tupper said. "But
Martin County has a much smaller employment base and smaller housing base than
the other counties, so they might keep moving north right through Martin
County."

Even so, some communities - like Indiantown, Fort Pierce and Port Salerno -
already have had a taste of that future.

Just 10 years ago, for example, the Fort Pierce Police Department had two
Hispanic officers. Now there are six, and the department in recent months hired
its first Haitian employees - two police officers and a duty officer.

Indiantown, in western Martin County, has the area's largest concentration of
Hispanics. Thousands of Guatemalans arrived there in the 1980s as migrant farm
workers. Many settled and raised families.

Today, about half of the students at Indiantown Middle School and Warfield
Elementary School are Hispanic. Warfield's Hispanic students comprise the
largest part of the county school district's English Speakers of Other Languages
program.

And the impact of immigration on the Treasure Coast's court system is seen
daily.

"There has been a definite increase in the need for interpreters and bilingual
employees," Martin County Circuit Court Clerk Marsha Stiller said. Three
volunteer interpreters go to the Martin County courthouse for traffic
misdemeanor plea days every Thursday.

Courts routinely rely on interpreters and bilingual employees to do everything
from interpreting fines and sentences to performing wedding ceremonies.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              252 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 29, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

BROKEN-DOWN BOAT WAS TRYING FOR U.S.

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 116 words


A boatload of immigrants the U.S. Coast Guard found off the Palm Beach Inlet on
Saturday was heading to the United States from the Bahamas, Coast Guard
officials said Sunday.

The 25-foot boat was carrying eight Haitians, two Indians, five Jamaicans, two
Cubans and three Bahamians when it apparently broke down about 18 miles east of
the mainland, said Coast Guard Lt. Ron LeBrec.

Border Patrol agents interviewed the immigrants Sunday aboard the Farallon, a
110-foot Coast Guard patrol boat. Officials have not determined whether the boat
was a smuggling vessel, though they did note that the passengers asked a passing
boater not to notify the Coast Guard when they were discovered.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              253 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 29, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

ABSURD IMMIGRATION POLICIES NEED FIXING

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 134 words


I congratulate The Palm Beach Post on its recent series of articles on the
nation's immigration problem (''Pursuit and Punishment,'' March 13-15). This
issue has the capability to alter America's cultural, social, economic,
political and environmental landscape more profoundly than any other except
nuclear devastation.

The government's failure to recognize and deal with it responsibly provides
little credit for our national leadership in both parties.

It is not widely known that Social Security in its present form favors immigrant
over native-born Americans, as explained in a report by the Carrying Capacity
Network of a study that Alan Gustman of Dartmouth College and Thomas Steinmeier
of Texas Tech did for the National Bureau of Economic Research.

Bromwell Ault

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              254 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 30, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 379 words


The Coast Guard continued to hold 21 Bahamians, Haitians, Jamaicans and Indians
aboard a cutter off the Florida coast while the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service decides whether to send them back to the Bahamas, Border
Patrol supervisory agent Art Bullock said Monday. The Coast Guard intercepted
the group Saturday on a 25-foot boat about 18 miles east of Palm Beach. The
Bahamian government has agreed to investigate the suspected smuggling case, and
the Border Patrol's investigation is continuing, Bullock said.

DELRAY BEACH - Police and U.S. Border Patrol agents detained 18 Haitian refugees
who waded ashore early Monday near the Delray Beach-Highland Beach line south of
Linton Boulevard. Border patrol agents, who late Monday morning were preparing
to take the 18 men to Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County, said they
believe two more smuggled immigrants eluded them. Those who were caught were
still wet from the waist down when border officials were called about 6:15 a.m.,
said border patrol agent-in-charge Art Bullock.

GULF STREAM - Palm Beach County sheriff's detectives are asking for help in
identifying the body of a man who was found drowned Saturday along the
Intracoastal Waterway. The 20to 30-year-old man is black, 5-feet-8 and
approximately 145 to 175 pounds, sheriff's officials said. On his arm, the man
has what appears to be a homemade tattoo of a dagger through a heart, officials
said. His pants had the brand name Fubu on the right rear pocket under that
company's large ''FB'' logo. He was wearing socks and all black clothing. Anyone
with information can call (561) 688-4000.

JUPITER - A 31-year-old man was charged with arson resulting in injury Monday
morning when he allegedly set fire to his father's house at 12680 185th St. N.
in Jupiter Farms. Mathew Taylor said he set the fire because the house was
surrounded by snipers, according to a Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office report.
The blaze did extensive damage to the garage, roof and living area, a county
fire-rescue spokesman said. A firefighter was injured when he fell in the
house's attic while fighting the fire. Sheriff's Detective Bill Atkinson said he
will ask today that Taylor be held without bail and be given a psychiatric
examination.


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Tatto

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              255 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 5, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

JOSEPH G. BERNADEL;
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MILAGRO CENTER;
DELRAY BEACH

SECTION: INSIDE BUSINESS, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 422 words


Recent accomplishments: Bernadel was recently appointed executive director of
the Milagro Center, a community outreach site for classes, lectures and
activities in an interracial, non-denominational setting.

Bernadel's mission is to see that the center becomes a true community resource.
There are classes such as ballet for children and yoga and a class in financial
management is planned, which Bernadel will teach. "We'll teach basic concepts.
(Immigrants) need tools for economic survival. We will work very cooperatively
with other community agencies.

"I want people in the community to walk in and utilize the services and become a
better person by having used the center. We can't be all things to all people,
or we will be nothing to anyone, but we do deliberately welcome all people."

Education: Received a BS in Business Administration from Hawaii Pacific
University, while in the military on scholarship.

Age: 52

Personal: Lives in Boca Raton with his wife, Victoria, and two children, 10 and
19, but the family plans to move to Delray Beach.

Hobbies: "I am a kite enthusiast. I love to fly stunt kites. I do a lot of
reading on foreign policy.

"I am also putting together the Miracle Race," a 10-K run in memory of the
Haitian citizens who drowned recently, "to raise the consciousness about Haitian
immigration, to prevent more deaths at sea and stop illegal immigration by
improving legal immigration."

Career Highlights: Bernadel was raised and educated in Haiti, the son of any
attorney and an educator. He came to the United States in 1974 and joined the
U.S. Army a year later. He served for 21 years, achieving the rank of major.

Fluent in five languages, Bernadel served as military attache to the U.S.
embassies in Haiti and Mozambique.

He also served as a State Department consultant to Haiti, helping rebuild the
Haitian national police by forming a new infrastructure with civilian
accountability and managing criminal investigations to help solve major
political crimes. "It was very rewarding to terminate my military service in
Port-au-Prince at a time when Haiti was in transition."

Bernadel also served as the national coordinator for counter-narcotics in the
Army Reserve at the Pentagon assisting with information gathering and resource
allocation to help local and state law enforcement fight the drug war.

Quote: "The struggles of today are never about today, they are always about
tomorrow. We struggle today to ensure a good tomorrow."

- JANIS FONTAINE


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Moving Up

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer, Joseph G. Bernadel hopes to
improve the lives of immigrants and others through the Milagro Center in Delray
Beach.

TYPE: BIOGRAPHY

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              256 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 25, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

JURY SET TO DECIDE FATE OF MAN IN FATAL SMUGGLING TRIP

BYLINE: Clay Lambert, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 404 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


Addison Joseph Hepburn is either an unwitting Bahamian fisherman tricked into
participating in a Haitian smuggling operation or an inhumane killer.

Today, a Broward County jury decides.

Hepburn, 44, told the jury Monday that U.S. Border Patrol agents forced him to
confess to being the captain of a boat that ferried 33 Haitian immigrants to a
sandbar 100 yards offshore near the Jupiter Inlet in August. He has been charged
with smuggling immigrants, smuggling for financial gain and smuggling which
resulted in death.

Federal prosecutors say Hepburn left the Haitians to sink or swim that day.
Nineteen swam to shore. Two died struggling to shore. The bodies of Benette
Dorsonne and Richard Presendieu were pulled from the water and the medical
examiner ruled their deaths were the result of drowning. The Coast Guard took
the remaining people off the sandbar.

"When they left, I sat there for a while and cried," Hepburn said of the border
patrol agents, as tears flowed down his face Monday.

Hepburn says he thought there were only a few Haitians, all legally permitted to
enter the United States, on his 23-foot motorboat when they left Freeport. He
said he was hired for $ 500 and asked to return the boat to the Bahamas after a
trip to the Port of Palm Beach.

He said he learned of other passengers and the smuggling mission only after
piloting the boat far out to sea.

Hepburn's attorney, Randee Golder, asked the jury to discount testimony from
Haitians on the boat who fingered Hepburn as the mastermind of the trip.

"They are lying and I submit to you they are lying to cover up for one of their
own," she said.

Hepburn was arrested by federal authorities the morning of Aug. 10, 1998, about
1 mile south of the Jupiter Inlet. Agents found him sleeping in a broken-down
boat anchored not far from a sandbar from which they earlier had rescued a dozen
Haitian refugees.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Neil Karadbil said Hepburn repeatedly changed his story
in interviews with authorities.

"This case is a tragedy," Karadbil said during closing arguments. "These people
were so desperate they would cram into the cabin (of a boat) in the middle of
the night because that is what it takes to get to the United States.

"People like the defendant capitalize on that desperation."

The jury received instructions from U.S. District Court Judge William
Dimitrouleas and will reconvene at 9 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              257 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 18, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

FIVE YEARS AFTER MASS EXODUS, SMUGGLING OF CUBANS RISES

BYLINE: Shelley Emling, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 930 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Five summers ago, more than 30,000 Cubans fled their homeland aboard inner tubes
and homemade rafts, braving sharks and storms, after Cuban President Fidel
Castro effectively told the Cuban Coast Guard to turn a blind eye to rafter
departures.

Now, years after Washington and Havana reached agreements to stop such
departures, the seas between Cuba and Florida have again become the path to a
better life for an increasing number of desperate Cuban immigrants.

This time, though, Cubans have foregone their flimsy crafts, and are relying on
smugglers who ferry them across the Florida Straits in speedboats designed to
dodge the U.S. Coast Guard and make the trip in three hours or less.

These Cubans and their families are willing to pay the smugglers up to $ 8,000
to escort them from a country in which the average monthly wage is only $ 20 to
$ 30.

''There has been a worrisome increase,'' said Wayne Smith, a senior fellow at
the Center for International Policy in Washington and former head of the U.S.
Interests Section in Havana. ''But smugglers are becoming more efficient and the
Cubans' families in Miami are willing to pay the money.''

Cuba is following a global trend in which illegal immigrants are increasingly
resorting to professionals to skirt beefed-up interdiction efforts by U.S. and
other immigration officials.

The U.S. Coast Guard intercepted 272 Cubans at sea in May, the highest monthly
total since 1994, and three times the number for May 1998.

So far this year, 764 Cubans have been caught trying to reach Florida by sea,
compared with 1,047 in all of 1998.

The numbers are expected to climb even more during the summer, when seas are
generally calmer.

''Smuggling is a cottage industry that's mushrooming because people . . . had
time to hone their skills,'' said Damian Fernandez, an expert on Cuba at Florida
International University here.

Concern over smuggling has grown since December, when 14 Cuban refugees died
just 30 miles south of Miami when their 29-foot speedboat capsized in high seas.

Hardline Cuban exiles here accuse Castro's Cuban government of enabling more of
these risky, illegal departures by easing border controls.

''Smugglers just can't show up on Cuba's shoreline without the implicit
authority of the Cuban government,'' said Ninoska Perez, spokeswoman for the
Cuban American National Foundation, the country's most powerful anti-Castro
lobbying group.

But the Cuban government vigorously denies that charge.

''We have been making great efforts to stop smuggling . . . we have put
smugglers in jail,'' said Luis Fernandez, spokesman for the Cuban Interests
Section in Washington, D.C.

A Cuban Interior Ministry statement published in the Communist Party daily
Granma this month said, ''There is not even the most remote chance that the
maritime borders of Cuba will be opened to the United States.''

Even the U.S. Coast Guard insists that Cuban authorities have been cooperative
in a joint U.S.-Cuba effort to stop smuggling.

''We work together well,'' said U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer Gibran Soto.
''Whenever they notice a ship leaving their waters, they give us a heads up.''

Cubans on the island contacted by telephone say they've heard no rumors that the
Cuban government is planning to ease border controls. Cuban government officials
contend that U.S. immigration policy provides incentives for Cubans not only to
emigrate, but also to rely on smugglers and speedboats to do so.

In 1994, U.S. policy granted legal residency to virtually all Cubans who left
their communist island.

But migration accords negotiated in 1995 between Cuba and the United States
changed that by calling for the repatriation of illegal Cuban immigrants who are
picked up at sea.

Today, Cubans who reach U.S. soil can count on sanctuary, while Haitians and
others face deportation.

In the accords, the Cuban government promised to work to stop all illegal
departures for the United States, while the United States agreed to help legal
immigration by issuing 20,000 visas to Cubans each year in a lottery.

The latest change in policy came in May, when Immigration and Naturalization
Commissioner Doris Meissner ruled that Cuban refugees are immediately eligible
for work permits. Before that order, they were not guaranteed employment.

''There are policies in place that encourage people to leave Cuba,'' Fernandez
said. ''If new measures aren't adopted, more people will be coming here.''

Certainly there are other explanations as to why there's an upturn in illegal
departures.

Some cite the miserably hot weather. Others cite drought-induced food shortages
coupled with Cuba's seemingly endless economic troubles. There is intense
frustration among Cuba's 12 million people over an erosion in their standard of
living since the fall of the Soviet Union, Cuba's main benefactor.

Still others cite an increase in government repression on the island.

''Conditions in Cuba are very volatile,'' Perez said. ''It wouldn't surprise me
if there was a big exodus this summer.''

By the numbers

Numbers of Cuban immigrants picked up at sea:

    By Year
   1999       764*
   1998      1,047
   1997        406
   1996        403
   1995        626
   1994     37,139

   By Month
   January      40
   February     72
   March       146
   April        72
   May         272
   June       162*

* - As of June 14

Source: U.S. Coast Guard

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              258 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 2, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

LESS STRANGE LAND, FEWER STRANGERS

BYLINE: Candy Hatcher

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 639 words


Those Cuban immigrants who fought police and the Coast Guard this week to reach
South Florida's shores couldn't have known about the bona fide grits at Ralph's
Place. They probably didn't come ashore for one of Anthony Groves' brownies,
either, though such motivation would have been understandable. These immigrants
believed something it took me years to acknowledge: This is a great place to
live.

Sure, there are way too many strip shopping centers and enough pink buildings to
make you gag. But in the split second when the breeze cools a fresh-baked day,
take a moment to appreciate the little things that make this place special. For
example, the way sunset throws a pink and blue blanket on West Palm Beach's baby
skyline.

On the eve of our nation's birthday, when people are clamoring to become
Americans and Americans are standing in line to become Floridians, be thankful
you live here, as citizens, and you don't have to deal with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Until this week, I didn't fully appreciate what it means to be an American. I
didn't appreciate all the hassles I avoided just by being born here. I called
the local immigration office with a simple question - where does the government
swear in new citizens? - and got an automated list of options: Call another
number for forms; press 1 for directions and office hours; press 3 to find out
how long the process takes; press 4 to reschedule an interview.

When I pressed 4, though, I got a lecture, not a rescheduled interview. "Please
make every effort to keep your scheduled interview," the recording said. "Asking
to be rescheduled will significantly delay your application and may also affect
your ability to receive benefits." When I pressed 6 for "all other questions," I
was told to call the national immigration center, which then referred me to the
local immigration office.

Welcome to America, I thought, wondering why any prospective citizen would
believe the hassles worth becoming a member of this "community." Our coral reefs
are dying. We build cookie-cutter houses in swampland to accommodate people who
move here to complain about how much better life was somewhere else. On top of
that, the traffic's awful, and the schools so crowded that kids attend classes
in trailers, sometimes 35 to a teacher. Teenagers steal cars for fun. Old people
crash their cars into storefronts or swimming pools. What's attractive about
this place, anyway?

It took years for me to appreciate South Florida's weird, wonderful mix of
cultures - a dab of the South, heaping helpings of New York attitude, Cuban
flair and Caribbean rhythm. Cafe con leche, lox and bagels, biscuits and grits
on the same block. Christmas parades floating down the Intracoastal instead of
meandering down Main Street. Friends helping each other celebrate Hanukkah,
Kwanzaa and Christmas.

Then there's the beauty of this place, best seen on a bicycle. The dike around
Lake Okeechobee, the trees in Hobe Sound and Gulf Stream that arch across the
road, the wide beaches in Delray, the north end of Palm Beach, where you can sit
on the dock and watch the ships go by.

I complained once that people here didn't seem to know their neighbors. Instead
of front porches, where people used to congregate and catch up on the news and
gossip, they built walls. But one morning, while jogging, I met strangers who
were neighbors but became friends. My "community" now includes the folks I see
on my morning run.

Those men who fought off police to reach the beach - and gain the right to
become legal immigrants - will discover their own sense of community, their own
reasons to appreciate living here.

Grits and brownies are a great way to start.

Candy Hatcher is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post. Her e-mail address
is candy-hatcher@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              259 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 4, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

ONLY GRAHAM CAN NAVIGATE CUBA POLICY

BYLINE: Randy Schultz

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 779 words


Since 1959, the volcano that is Cuban-American politics has burped, bubbled over
and, very occasionally, been dormant. Last week, the volcano began smoking
again.

Six rafters reached the beach in Miami-Dade County. If you believe them, they
arrived in a handmade boat after rowing from Cuba. If you believe the
immigration folks, they paid a smuggler. But to the Cuban-Americans who consider
themselves exiles, details don't matter. Anyone running from Fidel Castro is a
hero.

So when the Coast Guard and police used every method, including pepper spray, to
keep the rafters from reaching dry land and avoiding a ticket home, the volcano
became active. Exiles, drawn by TV broadcasts, crowded the shore, cheered on the
rafters and cursed the cops. Thousands of others blocked off streets to protest
restrictions on Cuban immigration. That stirred the ever-present resentment
among Anglos who have seen Spanish become a required language in their hometown.

By week's end, the usual characters had emerged. Opportunistic politicians were
yelling at the Clinton administration. Cuban-American media were in full battle
cry. Anglos worried about the threat to public safety from the protests. Other
groups complained that Cubans always get what they want. Everybody was accounted
for except the person who has the best chance to relieve it all: Bob Graham.

Cash in that political clout

Florida's senior United States senator has been in public life nearly as long as
Castro has ruled Cuba. He has compiled a record of hard work, ethical conduct
and risk-free legislation. For all of Sen. Graham's intelligence, ambition and
political skill, he has done absolutely nothing bold or risky during his 12 1/2
years in the Senate.

If ever there was a time for Sen. Graham to cash in all that political clout he
has been storing up, it's now. His country and his state need him to end the
madness that has been foreign policy toward Cuba and stop all the damage it has
brought to Florida.

Twenty-four years after the end of a war that cost nearly 60,000 American lives,
we have diplomatic relations with Vietnam. When the Soviet Union had thousands
of nuclear missiles aimed our way, we had an embassy in Moscow. But our official
attitude toward Cuba remains as outdated as the 1950s-era cars on that island's
streets.

For all the economic power that the exodus has brought, Miami-Dade and the state
have paid a lot. Miami itself is a municipal joke, just now emerging from
near-bankruptcy, as commingled with corruption and inefficiency as black beans
are with rice. That's what happens when voters judge candidates for local office
on the demagoguery in their foreign policy.

As for the exile leaders who claim to be fighting for freedom in Cuba, many
practice little of it at home, denouncing and threatening those who disagree
with them. They see any contact with Cuba as an endorsement of Castro's
dictatorship.

Timing never will be better

The only person with a chance to finally bring some sense to it is Sen. Graham.
He has established his bona fides with the exiles, backing every misguided
crackdown on Castro, including the Helms-Burton Act of 1996 in which the United
States ordered other countries not to trade with Cuba. Yet those who oppose such
politics respect Sen. Graham's intellect.

In terms of timing, Sen. Graham just won another six-year term in November. He
is the most popular politician in Florida. He's 62, and no one is talking about
him anymore for president or vice president. Outside of Florida and a couple of
cities in New Jersey, no one cares enough about Cuba to get involved, aside from
the occasional, predictable yap about communism. If Sen. Graham doesn't do it,
no one will.

As for the exiles' argument that Castro took "their" country, plenty of former
South Vietnamese could have said the same thing. To underscore the need to move
on, President Clinton sent as the first ambassador former Florida Congressman
Pete Peterson, who was captured and tortured during the Vietnam War. Perhaps the
first ambassador to Cuba could be one of Castro's former political prisoners.

Recognizing Cuba would lead to orderly immigration, economic renewal for the
island and its people - exiles would develop vacation homes by the thousands -
and goodwill among other nations that regard our policy as slightly loony. Only
Richard Nixon could have opened the door to China. It was the right move. Only
Bob Graham can open the door to Cuba. Right man, right move, right volcano.

Randy Schultz is editor of the editorial page of The Palm Beach Post. Comments
about the Opinion section may be sent to him at rschultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              260 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 4, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

FOR IMMIGRANTS, WAITING IS HARDEST

BYLINE: Dan Moffett, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1311 words


Yovany Gonzalez left the Cuban port of Matanzas in a small boat six years ago
determined to become an American citizen.

On his second day at sea, he was intercepted by police and sent back. He then
borrowed money for a plane ticket to Chile, lived there three weeks, slept on
floors, got a ticket to Florida, flew here and requested asylum, became a
resident, learned English, married, fathered two children, got a job in a tire
shop and even made the culturally perilous move from Miami to Boca Raton.

''You do what you have to,'' says Gonzalez. ''No problem.''

Now comes the really hard part - the problem: Getting an appointment with the
U.S. government so he can stay here.

Gonzalez, 25, took a day off work last week to get a place in line at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office on Northlake Boulevard in Palm
Beach Gardens.

He and his wife Marlene want to apply for citizenship and were on the road at 5
in the morning with 2-year-old Yovany Jr. and 8-month-old Yohani - which,
considering the hour, was no small achievement.

They believed the INS would see the first 200 people it found standing outside
its door when it opened for business at 7 a.m. That, at least, is what the
automated telephone tape recording told callers.

By daybreak, 65 immigrants from around the world were dutifully queued on the
sidewalk outside Suite 107, each expecting to be seen and heard that day by a
INS examiner.

None of them made it past the security guard. All were given appointments for
mid-July and told to come back then.

It seems the INS office decided three months ago to change its method of
operation, abandoning the first-come, first-served approach it has used for the
last seven years.

''We wanted to bring some order to that office,'' explained Kelly Spellman, an
INS spokesman.

The telephone tape has not been changed yet to reflect the new procedure, she
said, and the office does not take questions by phone. So to find out about
procedures in general or their cases in specific, immigrants must show up in
person - then get an appointment to show up again.

Like the others in line, Yovany Gonzalez was sent home to count his losses: A
night's sleep, a day's wages, three more weeks in the pursuit of citizenship. A
working family man trying to make a start in a new country parts with none of
these easily.

''It is disappointing to go to that effort and have nothing to show for it,'' he
said. ''We thought we'd get our questions answered.''

The office in Palm Beach County, which in the '80s was little more than a small
satellite to the INS regional center in Miami, has fought a continuing struggle
to cope with the wave of immigration rising up the Florida coast.

The INS feels daily the population shift that is changing Palm Beach County. A
Florida International University study commissioned by The Palm Beach Post
projects that Hispanics will displace the county's Anglo majority by 2025 as the
number of new arrivals swells.

Immigrants from eight counties - from Hendry in the west to the Treasure Coast
on the north - depend on the services provided in a suite the size of a small
bank branch. This year, the Northlake office will conduct about 17,000
naturalization interviews.

Robert Wallis, the INS district director, acknowledged last month his staff here
was being overwhelmed and announced plans to expand the number of adjudications
officers from four to 12. Wallis also said the agency is planning to move into a
larger building, perhaps as early as August.

''They are short of manpower over there and they definitely need a bigger
office,'' said Elsa Gibbons, executive director of the Center for Minority Human
Services Providers. ''They didn't expect so many immigrants to come to Palm
Beach County. They thought it would be just for a few people. They have been
behind for the last 10 years.''

The heavy caseload during the last decade has created its share of ugly imagery.

Tempers have worn thin in the long lines. To be No. 201 when only 200 are
admitted is a disheartening way to face the dawn. Territorial disputes have
degenerated into shoving matches and fisticuffs, and language barriers added to
tensions inside the building and out. Typically, no Spanish-speaking examiner is
on duty, nor anyone who speaks Haitian Creole.

Several years ago, an examiner in the office angered refugee activists by
insisting on wearing gloves when handling immigrants' paperwork.

''Our people feel like they're aliens from another planet when they go there,''
says Daniella Henry, who runs the Haitian American Community Council in Delray
Beach. ''It is not like an office where people are treated like taxpayers. It is
a taboo place.''

Immigrant rights groups credit the INS with making progress in delivering some
services. Last year the agency opened a separate office for fingerprinting on
Bristol Drive near Palm Beach International Airport. It was part of a nationwide
assault on a backlog of citizenship applications that numbers about 2 million
cases.

''The INS is still behind and its people are exhausted, working too hard trying
to catch up,'' Gibbons said. ''I anticipate the situation will be worse six
months from now than it is today.''

Lines continue to form at the Northlake office hours before dawn as immigrants
continue to mistakenly believe they can come early and settle their business the
same day.

Luis Martinez of Belle Glade wants to leave this month on a vacation to his
Mexican homeland but can't until he replaces INS documentation he has lost.
Martinez arrives at the office at 5:30 a.m. Thursday and signs his name to a
piece of notebook paper on which someone has started to list the order of those
waiting for appointments.

The first thing the security guard says on opening the door at 7 is that the
list is meaningless.

''That paper has nothing to do with the INS,'' he tells the group of 50
immigrants waiting outside. ''Make one line here. If you cut the line, you get
an appointment when they hold the Winter Olympics in Miami.''

Martinez is allowed inside for a few minutes, then exits with a paper confirming
an appointment for July 19.

''I think they should at least answer your questions in a respectful way,'' he
says. ''There's no reason to be rude.''

Marilyn Espejo, who works at a dialysis center in Port St. Lucie, took the day
off Thursday to help translate for her Colombian-born stepfather, Palmenio
Guesquan, who took off his job at a Port St. Lucie Publix supermarket to apply
for citizenship. They waited in line for three hours, then were told to come
back on the 19th.

''We wasted a day's work because nobody will tell us what the rules are,''
Espejo said. ''What do we have to show for today? A bagel, a cup of coffee and
getting up at four in the morning. They make it harder and harder to be a
citizen.''

The long July 4th weekend began Friday with the same faulty message being
transmitted to the future generation of Americans.

The tape recording callers heard when phoning the Northlake office was as wrong
as it has been since March 19, when the new appointment system started:

Two hundred tickets for service are issued daily and the ticket limit is usually
reached by 9 a.m. Waiting time can be two to three hours . . .

An INS spokesman promised the message would be fixed soon.

''We've found out it is more difficult to change those telephone recordings than
we thought,'' the spokesman said.

How we did this series

The Palm Beach Post teamed with the Southeast Florida Center on Aging at Florida
International University to review data from the U.S. Census and the University
of Florida and project what Palm Beach County will look like in the next
century.

Read more from this series and contact reporters with your comments at Palm
Beach Interactive: www.GoPBI.com/pbpost

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run Early

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W, 1. (C) STEPHANIE WELSH/Staff Photographer, Immigrants
wait for hours early Thursday morning outside the Palm Beach Gardens office of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The reward for their wait: an
appointment to come back at a later date., 2. Luis Martinez (mug

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              261 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 7, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

TREAT CUBAN REFUGEES HUMANELY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 117 words


The way the Cubans were welcomed at surfside by the U.S. Coast Guard and local
police and the way immigrants, legal or otherwise, are asked to produce
documentation to obtain their driver licenses border on open discrimination.

Once refugees arrive, they should be treated humanely, not with pepper spray and
water cannons. That is more typical of the regime they are fleeing. To keep them
in their homeland, it would be more helpful to assist them in eliminating their
system of government and bring back democracy to Cuba.

Once they are here, we should assist them in becoming legal residents. To
persecute them is to discriminate against them.

Joaquin Etcheverry

West Palm Beach


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              262 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 12, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

INS SORELY IN NEED OF HEART TRANSPLANT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 234 words


I feel very sorry for the people who get up very early and travel to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service office on Northlake Boulevard (''For
immigrants, waiting is hardest,'' July 4).

I've done that also with my husband. We actually did get an interview (three
times) and were told he would receive his permanent residency card, good for 10
years. Instead, we received one with an already expired date on it and cannot
get anyone on the phone on Northlake or in Texas (where the card came from), and
they will not answer registered mail.

The way one is treated at the Northlake INS office is inhumane. When trying to
ask a question through the window, you're cut off, and some papers are shoved
through at you. Then you leave.

I feel so sorry for all who have to go through this. The people working there
seemingly couldn't care less. I know they are overwhelmed, but so are many other
working people. That doesn't mean the window clerks have to be rude to people.

I hope that all of us who have gotten up to be at that office very early in the
morning will receive our correct permanent residency cards in the very near
future. It doesn't take months to change a recording on an answering machine,
either, as an INS spokesman implied.

Could the INS offices and service centers be revamped to include human beings
with feelings working in them?

Janice Poirier

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, STEPHANIE WELSH/1999 Staff File Photo, An Immigration and
Naturalization Service security guard explains the procedure to get an
appointment to a line of people gathered outside the office early on the morning
of July 1.

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              263 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 12, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

INS SORELY IN NEED OF HEART TRANSPLANT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 234 words


I feel very sorry for the people who get up very early and travel to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service office on Northlake Boulevard (''For
immigrants, waiting is hardest,'' July 4).

I've done that also with my husband. We actually did get an interview (three
times) and were told he would receive his permanent residency card, good for 10
years. Instead, we received one with an already expired date on it and cannot
get anyone on the phone on Northlake or in Texas (where the card came from), and
they will not answer registered mail.

The way one is treated at the Northlake INS office is inhumane. When trying to
ask a question through the window, you're cut off, and some papers are shoved
through at you. Then you leave.

I feel so sorry for all who have to go through this. The people working there
seemingly couldn't care less. I know they are overwhelmed, but so are many other
working people. That doesn't mean the window clerks have to be rude to people.

I hope that all of us who have gotten up to be at that office very early in the
morning will receive our correct permanent residency cards in the very near
future. It doesn't take months to change a recording on an answering machine,
either, as an INS spokesman implied.

Could the INS offices and service centers be revamped to include human beings
with feelings working in them?

Janice Poirier

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, STEPHANIE WELSH/1999 Staff File Photo, An Immigration and
Naturalization Service security guard explains the procedure to get an
appointment to a line of people gathered outside the office early on the morning
of July 1.

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              264 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 17, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

PANDERING, NOT POLICY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 402 words


Depending on which American official you speak with, recent landings in Florida
by Cuban immigrants foreshadow another big wave of arrivals or indicate nothing
special. We have to guess what's going on in Cuba because the United States has
no diplomatic presence in a country 90 miles away that poses no significant
military or economic threat, especially after the collapse of the Soviet Union.

It seems clear, however, that most of the Cubans who have arrived during the
past few weeks or been turned away by the Coast Guard - 56 and 24, respectively,
Thursday and Friday - did not leave the island in homemade boats. According to
investigators, the refugees' stories and their conditions make it seem likely
that smugglers brought them and that they are economic, rather than political,
refugees.

Yet when President Clinton visited Miami-Dade County this week, he did not
address the contradictory, confusing policy he enacted more than four years ago.
That policy allows 20,000 Cubans a year to enter the United States legally if
they apply for visas, yet allows those who reach land in the U.S. by arriving
illegally to stay.

Instead, the president once again criticized Coast Guard officers who used
pepper spray and water cannons to keep half a dozen Cubans from reaching the
beach in Surfside two weeks ago. Indeed, it was an embarrassing scene. But the
officers were enforcing the president's policy, and Mr. Clinton did not offer
any tips on how they should restrain people who are determined to reach the
shore.

There remains a need for the United States to rely on something more than rage
at Fidel Castro for our policy toward Cuba. Instead, we get the usual pandering.
On Thursday, House impeachment manager and aspiring Senate candidate Rep. Bill
McCollum, R-Altamonte Springs, humored those who want Castro indicted for the
shooting down in 1996 of two private planes. Four people, three of them
Americans, died when Cuban fighters opened fire.

If the United States had diplomatic relations with Cuba, there's a chance that
the three planes - one made it back - would not have had such a confrontation.
If the United States had diplomatic relations with Cuba, the two countries could
discuss immigration sensibly. If the United States had diplomatic relations with
Cuba, we would not have to hear President Clinton and Rep. McCollum talking
about everything but the real issue.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              265 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  July 18, 1999, Sunday, EARLY SUNDAY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS STUNNED BY CULTURE SHOCK

BYLINE: Mary McLachlin and William Cooper Jr., Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2098 words


The bruises covering the 10-year-old boy's torso were shocking. School officials
called the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. The Sheriff's Office called the
Department of Children & Families. DCF sent a child abuse investigator.

And just like that, another immigrant family found itself in a bewildering
conflict with the laws of one culture because of the customs of its own.

The family is from Cambodia. There, it's traditional to pinch the skin or rub it
hard with a coin or a spoon to bring ''toxic air'' to the surface and relieve
symptoms of illness. ''Coining'' is believed to restore balance and harmony to
the body.

''He said he was sick, with a cold or something, and his mother did this with a
coin to make him better,'' DCF investigator Victor Perez said. ''He didn't think
it was anything unusual.''

Immigrant families today risk running afoul of a force that earlier generations
didn't often encounter, one they find more illogical and frightening than the
byzantine process of immigration itself.

''They're shocked at what the state can do to them - that we can take away their
kids,'' Perez said.

They can't understand how the state can arrest them, haul them into court - even
put them in jail - for doing things they've always done and that are acceptable
in their own countries.

Like the Haitian mother who whips her children with a belt or tree branch.

Or the Mexican man who hits his wife and children when he feels they don't
respect his authority.

Or the Guatemalan couple who leave a 7-year-old in charge of her younger
brothers and sisters while the parents are at work.

Or the Cuban parents who implore a Santeria priest to remove ''bad spirits''
from an unruly child by sacrificing a live chicken, and the traumatized child
winds up in 45th Street Mental Health Center, terrified that his throat will be
cut like the rooster's.

Child abuse investigators and caseworkers look across these cultural chasms
daily. They struggle to explain to people who don't understand the language, let
alone the law, that says their native customs are abusive and illegal in their
new country.

Minorities have always been over-represented in child abuse and neglect, and
state social workers believe the number of Hispanic and Haitian children
entering the child protection system is increasing.

DCF can't document the number, because it doesn't track children by ethnicity.

The agency's outdated computer system is one example of how unprepared the state
is to deal with a diverse population of children and families. Child abuse data
are collected under a 1970s formula based on race, which is listed as white,
black, Asian/Pacific Islander, and Native American/Alaskan Native.

Foster parents in Florida have to go through a 10-week training course - but DCF
doesn't offer it in Spanish or Creole. Nor does it have any professional
interpreters of Spanish or Creole in child protective services. That forces
investigators fluent in those languages to stop working and assist their
colleagues.

But only three of DCF's 46 child abuse investigators are bilingual, said Pam
Heyer, local DCF spokeswoman.

''If there's a bilingual secretary or another worker around, we do use other
staff to assist the investigators,'' Heyer said.

That means those employees get behind in their work because they're busy
interpreting for other staff. Two Creole-speaking secretaries in DCF's Delray
Beach office left recently, leaving only one Creole-speaking counselor in the
unit that serves the largest concentration of Haitian immigrants in Palm Beach
County.

Investigators say Haitian families wind up in the child abuse system most often
because of their practice of whipping children. A parent may beat a child with a
belt, a stick, an extension cord or a switch hard enough to leave bruises, welts
or cuts, yet still think of it as ''spanking'' or ''discipline.''

''What you call abuse is not what they call abuse,'' said Bito David, a Creole
translator and adult ESOL instructor for the Palm Beach County school system.
''People tell them they cannot do it, but they cannot understand why.''

Whipping is an integral part of Haitian culture, David said.

''In Haiti, it takes a whole village to raise the child,'' he said, ''so that
means every adult in the village has the right to spank you if you are
misbehaving.''

Haitian parents point to American culture as justification for beating children,
said Jean Robert Saint-Thelus of the Haitian Center for Family Services in West
Palm Beach.

''They say, 'Over here you give children too much freedom, they go in gangs,
they rob, smoke, do drugs,' '' Saint-Thelus said. ''They say children respect
their parents in Haiti because they know if they do bad things, their parents
beat them.''

A legacy of slavery

Acceptance of whipping, deference to authority figures and avoidance of eye
contact are legacies of the 200 years Haitians spent in slavery, said
professional interpreter Ketley Blaise, whose parents emigrated in the 1950s.

Blaise said she was belt-whipped as a child, didn't like it and would not do it
herself. But she never would have protested or talked back to her parents.

''My psyche wasn't damaged,'' she said. ''My butt was, my legs were; I
definitely did not feel good about it . . . now we use all kinds of
psychological methods to achieve the same benefits.''

Persuading parents to abandon whipping for those gentler methods is a problem,
said Jean Alpha Alexander, who teaches a parenting class on Friday nights at the
Haitian-American Community Council in Delray Beach.

''We have to take time to talk, talk, talk, to make them understand they need
the class,'' Alexander said. ''I explain over and over again to people in my
class that we are in a new system, and in the first place, they don't have to
spank the child to discipline.

''This is hard for them to accept.''

Investigators say they see a recurrent pattern among Hispanic families in the
child abuse system:

Men emigrate, find work and live in groups to save money. After work and on
weekends, the men drink.

When they save enough to bring their families here, they continue drinking. And
when they drink too much, some start to hit their wives and children -
especially when the wives and children rapidly become ''Americanized'' by
television, movies and peer group influences and challenge the macho male
authority.

Once immigrant parents have been reported to DCF, they often have a hard time
understanding what they have to do to get their children back or keep them from
being taken away. If the case goes to court, the judge can order a translator
for a hearing, which at least increases the odds for understanding.

But for workers in the field, communication is never certain. Sometimes, it can
be tortuous, such as last week when three people from DCF's Delray Beach office
crowded into the tiny, two-room living quarters of a Guatemalan couple with
three children.

The Boynton Beach family landed in DCF's net last October when the father, a
landscape laborer, hit his 9-year-old son in the face and left a swollen bruise.
DCF had followed its usual procedures and created a case plan: a domestic
violence course and random drug testing for the father; parenting classes and
psychological tests for both father and mother; better housing for the family,
who all sleep in a 10-by-10-foot bedroom, the parents in one bed, an 11-year-old
girl and her two brothers in the other.

They rent the other bedroom to two men to help pay the $ 450 rent they must send
each month to the homeowner in Mexico.

For the mother, the case plan is virtually useless. She speaks a Mayan dialect
so obscure that she can't understand instructions, attend parenting class or
take tests.

Joira Candeloro, a DCF protective services supervisor, took the children bags of
clothes and toys and took their court-appointed monitor, Robert Zeleny, to check
on them. Blanca Gamio, a new DCF caseworker, came along.

Zeleny speaks no Spanish. He put questions to Candeloro, a native Brazilian, who
speaks what she calls broken Spanish.

With the help of Gamio, who speaks excellent Spanish, Candeloro translated the
questions into Spanish for the father, who interpreted them in the mother's
Mayan dialect. Then the process reversed.

Children become translators

In this linguistic leapfrog, the group tried to discuss matters as complex as
the mother's confused immigration status, getting Medicaid and food stamps for
the children and the couple's reluctance to move from their minuscule dwelling
because they had given that address to immigration authorities, and what if an
important paper came after they left and they didn't get it?

When the father isn't home, Candeloro said, she communicates with the mother
through the children, who speak all three languages.

Children typically are the only English speakers in many immigrant families, and
social workers often have to rely on them to translate. But they don't like to
do that because it places children - the victims of the alleged abuse - in an
awkward and possibly dangerous position.

The school system has three full-time and three part-time interpreters in its
International Student Support/Multicultural Awareness department, plus 110
''community language facilitators'' at individual schools, Bito David said.
Schools with 15 or more students who speak limited English are entitled to
facilitators who help children in classrooms, he said.

Investigators say DCF desperately needs that kind of help.

''We need immediate access to translators,'' said investigator Don Samis,
recalling his two-month struggle to get a case plan written in Creole for a
Haitian family. When he can't find a DCF colleague to translate, Samis said, he
tries to find a sheriff's deputy or someone from the county government's
"language bank" volunteer group who speaks Spanish or Creole.

No money to pay translators

DCF's job categories don't include translators, and its budget doesn't include
money to pay for them. Last year, the district office used $ 2,200 from its
therapeutic services fund to fill 10 requests for translation services,
spokesman Pam Heyer said.

"We do know the service is available," Samis said, "but if we need somebody in
15 minutes or half an hour, that would be a real problem. Once we hit the home,
we have to make a decision whether that child is safe or not."

Samis said the system also needs more parenting classes in native languages and
mentors for both children and parents, people who can explain in their own
tongue the changes they must make and why.

The state has to gain immigrants' trust by being visible in the community when
conditions aren't adverse, said Jack Levine, director of the Center for
Florida's Children, a Tallahassee-based advocacy group. Parents are reluctant to
fill out forms and disclose their names and addresses because most have fled
oppressive governments, he said, and when DCF enters their lives, it serves as a
reminder of the conditions they left behind.

''It's not their basic assumption that government is now your protector,''
Levine said.

Education is the best way to break down cultural barriers, said Tana Ebbole,
director of the Children's Services Council in Palm Beach County. This year, the
council has sponsored workshops and panel discussions for social service
agencies on understanding cultural, ethnic and religious diversity and improving
race relations among different cultures.

''If you look at the cycle of immigrant populations, a lot of dynamics are going
on that are common to first generations of immigrants,'' Ebbole said. ''But the
world is so complex today, with so many different forms of information, it
creates incredible levels of adjustment and stress for families.''

Ultimately, she said, state and local governments will need a diverse workforce
to stay in step with the cultural changes each immigrant group brings to
America.

Language barriers

At the state Department of Children & Families, the Family Safety and
Preservation division investigates child abuse and oversees children in foster
care and adoptions. Investigators complain of a lack of translators to help them
with immigrant clients. Here's a breakdown of the Palm Beach County staff's
language skills:

46 overall child abuse investigators; three are bilingual, including two who
speak Spanish.

37 total foster care/adoption workers; six are bilingual - four speak Spanish,
two Creole.

SOURCE: State Department of Children & Families

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1 C & 3 B&W, 1. (C) MARK MIRKO/Staff Photographer, INSIDE:
Cosmetic dentist Maria Egusquiza plays with her 2-year-old adopted foster
daughter, Cristina, at her Lake Clarke Shores office. Egusquiza, who has five
other foster children, attributes her success to a strong family background.
STORY, 4A, 2. Victor Perez (mug), 3. Don Samis (mug), 4. Ketley Blaise (mug

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              266 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    July 21, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' TB RATES BARELY SLOW

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Treatment and detention reduced tuberculosis cases in Florida at a much slower
rate for immigrants than for U.S. born patients between 1994 and 1998, a state
health official said Tuesday.

Nearly a third of the 1,304 cases of active tuberculosis counted in the state in
1998 involved people who were foreign-born, compared to 24 percent four years
ago, according to state health department numbers. While the number of U.S.-born
patients declined by 454 to 887 in the past four years, cases among immigrants
dropped by only six to 411.

"Immigration is a fact of life, and it's a major problem for tuberculosis,''
said Graydon Sheperd, chief of the state Health Department's Bureau of
Tuberculosis and Refugee Health.

Of the 411 immigrants with the infectious disease in 1998, 35 percent were from
Haiti, 10 percent were from Cuba and 8 percent were from Mexico, Sheperd said.
He said poverty and lack of access to medical care rather than cultural
differences are responsible for the higher incidence.

Chest X-rays, which are required for most immigrants entering the country, often
don't detect early stages of TB.  The state now conducts TB skin tests on
immigrants in federal Immigration and Naturalization Service detention centers
in Florida to detect if immigrants illegally entering the country have ever been
exposed to the disease.

Tuberculosis, which can be spread by coughs and sneezes from an infected person,
reached a peak in Florida in 1990 with 1,832 cases reported. The state began
aggressive treatment and prevention by requiring patients to take medication in
view of a nurse. Those who refused were sometimes court-ordered into detention
at A.G. Holley State Hospital in Lantana.

The numbers fluctuated until 1994, when there were 1,764 reported cases, and
they have dropped each year since. In 1997, the state had 1,400 cases.

Sheperd and other public health administrators spoke about infectious diseases
at a workshop at the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office for prison and jail
administrators. Sheperd urged that jails do symptom screening in addition to
skin tests to determine whether an inmate has the disease. About 50 inmates in
Florida's jails and prisons have the disease, he said.

Florida also has one of the nation's highest rates of patients with both HIV and
TB, Sheperd said.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              267 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 25, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT CUSTOMS OFTEN COLLIDE WITH CHILD PROTECTION LAWS

BYLINE: Mary McLachlin and William Cooper Jr., Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2201 words


The bruises covering the 10-year-old boy's torso were shocking. School officials
called the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. The sheriff's office called the
Department of Children & Families. DCF sent a child abuse investigator.

And just like that, another immigrant family found itself in a bewildering
conflict with the laws of one culture because of the customs of its own.

The family is from Cambodia. There, it's traditional to pinch the skin or rub it
hard with a coin or a spoon to bring ''toxic air'' to the surface and relieve
symptoms of illness. ''Coining'' is believed to restore balance and harmony to
the body.

''He said he was sick, with a cold or something, and his mother did this with a
coin to make him better,'' DCF investigator Victor Perez said. ''He didn't think
it was anything unusual.''

Immigrant families today risk running afoul of a force that earlier generations
didn't often encounter, one they find more illogical and frightening than the
Byzantine process of immigration itself.

''They're shocked at what the state can do to them - that we can take away their
kids,'' Perez said.

They can't understand how the state can arrest them, haul them into court - even
put them in jail - for doing things they've always done and that are acceptable
in their own countries.

Like the Haitian mother who whips her children with a belt or tree branch.

Or the Mexican man who hits his wife and children when he feels they don't
respect his authority.

Or the Guatemalan couple who leave a 7-year-old in charge of her younger
brothers and sisters while the parents are at work.

Or the Cuban parents who implore a Santeria priest to remove ''bad spirits''
from an unruly child by sacrificing a live chicken, and the traumatized child
winds up in 45th Street Mental Health Center, terrified that his throat will be
cut like the rooster's.

Child abuse investigators and caseworkers look across these cultural chasms
daily. They struggle to explain to people who don't understand the language, let
alone the law, that says their native customs are abusive and illegal in their
new country.

Minorities have always been over-represented in child abuse and neglect, and
state social workers believe the number of Hispanic and Haitian children
entering the child protection system is increasing.

DCF can't document the number, because it doesn't track children by ethnicity.

The agency's outdated computer system is one example of how unprepared the state
is to deal with a diverse population of children and families. Child abuse data
are collected under a 1970s formula based on race, which is listed as white,
black, Asian/Pacific Islander, and Native American/Alaskan Native.

Foster parents in Florida have to go through a 10-week training course - but DCF
doesn't offer it in Spanish or Creole. Nor does it have any professional
interpreters of Spanish or Creole in child protective services. That forces
investigators fluent in those languages to stop working and assist their
colleagues.

But only three of DCF's 46 child abuse investigators are bilingual, said Pam
Heyer, local DCF spokeswoman.

''If there's a bilingual secretary or another worker around, we do use other
staff to assist the investigators,'' Heyer said.

That means those employees get behind in their work because they're busy
interpreting for other staff. Two Creole-speaking secretaries in DCF's Delray
Beach office left recently, leaving only one Creole-speaking counselor in the
unit that serves the largest concentration of Haitian immigrants in Palm Beach
County.

Investigators say Haitian families wind up in the child abuse system most often
because of their practice of whipping children. A parent may beat a child with a
belt, a stick, an extension cord or a switch hard enough to leave bruises, welts
or cuts, yet still think of it as ''spanking'' or ''discipline.''

''What you call abuse is not what they call abuse,'' said Bito David, a Creole
translator and adult English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) instructor
for the Palm Beach County school system. ''People tell them they cannot do it,
but they cannot understand why.''

Whipping is an integral part of Haitian culture, David said.

''In Haiti, it takes a whole village to raise the child,'' he said, ''so that
means every adult in the village has the right to spank you if you are
misbehaving.''

Haitian parents point to American culture as justification for beating children,
said Jean Robert Saint-Thelus of the Haitian Center for Family Services in West
Palm Beach.

''They say, 'Over here you give children too much freedom, they go in gangs,
they rob, smoke, do drugs,' '' Saint-Thelus said. ''They say children respect
their parents in Haiti because they know if they do bad things, their parents
beat them.''

A legacy of slavery

Acceptance of whipping, deference to authority figures and avoidance of eye
contact are legacies of the 200 years Haitians spent in slavery, said
professional interpreter Ketley Blaise, whose parents emigrated in the 1950s.

Blaise said she was belt-whipped as a child, didn't like it and would not do it
herself. But she never would have protested or talked back to her parents.

''My psyche wasn't damaged,'' she said. ''My butt was, my legs were; I
definitely did not feel good about it. . . . Now we use all kinds of
psychological methods to achieve the same benefits.''

Persuading parents to abandon whipping for those gentler methods is a problem,
said Jean Alpha Alexander, who teaches a parenting class on Friday nights at the
Haitian-American Community Council in Delray Beach.

''We have to take time to talk, talk, talk, to make them understand they need
the class,'' Alexander said. ''I explain over and over again to people in my
class that we are in a new system, and in the first place, they don't have to
spank the child to discipline.

''This is hard for them to accept.''

Attorney John Brewer is one of a cadre of lawyers whom judges regularly appoint
to represent poor families who wind up in the Juvenile Court system. He says
Haitians are "overrepresented" in the system, while Hispanics are
"underrepresented," considering their numbers.

"Haitians generally run afoul of our current horror of corporal punishment,"
Brewer said. "They discipline their children about like normal white Americans
did in 1955 - like my mama used to discipline me.

"Hispanic cultures seem to reach out with an extended family and take care of
their own in that way, but many Haitian people here are kind of adrift and don't
have that extended family."

Investigators say they see a recurrent pattern among Hispanic families in the
child abuse system:

Men emigrate, find work and live in groups to save money. After work and on
weekends, the men drink.

When they save enough to bring their families here, they continue drinking. And
when they drink too much, some start to hit their wives and children -
especially when the wives and children rapidly become ''Americanized'' by
television, movies and peer group influences and challenge the macho male
authority.

Once immigrant parents have been reported to DCF, they often have a hard time
understanding what they have to do to get their children back or keep them from
being taken away. If the case goes to court, the judge can order a translator
for a hearing, which at least increases the odds for understanding.

But for workers in the field, communication is never certain. Sometimes, it can
be tortuous, such as in mid-July when three people from DCF's Delray Beach
office crowded into the tiny, two-room living quarters of a Guatemalan couple
with three children.

The Boynton Beach family landed in DCF's net last October when the father, a
landscape laborer, hit his 9-year-old son in the face and left a swollen bruise.
DCF had followed its usual procedures and created a case plan: a domestic
violence course and random drug testing for the father; parenting classes and
psychological tests for both father and mother; better housing for the family,
who all sleep in a 10-by-10-foot bedroom, the parents in one bed, an 11-year-old
girl and her two brothers in the other.

They rent the other bedroom to two men to help pay the $ 450 rent they must send
each month to the homeowner in Mexico.

For the mother, the case plan is virtually useless. She speaks a Mayan dialect
so obscure that she can't understand instructions, attend parenting class or
take tests.

Joira Candeloro, a DCF protective services supervisor, took the children bags of
clothes and toys and took their court-appointed monitor, Robert Zeleny, to check
on them. Blanca Gamio, a new DCF caseworker, came along.

Zeleny speaks no Spanish. He put questions to Candeloro, a native Brazilian, who
speaks what she calls broken Spanish.

With the help of Gamio, who speaks excellent Spanish, Candeloro translated the
questions into Spanish for the father, who interpreted them in the mother's
Mayan dialect. Then the process reversed.

Children become translators

In this linguistic leapfrog, the group tried to discuss matters as complex as
the mother's confused immigration status, getting Medicaid and food stamps for
the children and the couple's reluctance to move from their minuscule dwelling
because they had given that address to immigration authorities, and what if an
important paper came after they left and they didn't get it?

When the father isn't home, Candeloro said, she communicates with the mother
through the children, who speak all three languages.

Children typically are the only English speakers in many immigrant families, and
social workers often have to rely on them to translate. But they don't like to
do that because it places children - the victims of the alleged abuse - in an
awkward and possibly dangerous position.

The school system has three full-time and three part-time interpreters in its
International Student Support/Multicultural Awareness department, plus 110
''community language facilitators'' at individual schools, Bito David said.
Schools with 15 or more students who speak limited English are entitled to
facilitators who help children in classrooms, he said.

Investigators say DCF desperately needs that kind of help.

''We need immediate access to translators,'' said investigator Don Samis,
recalling his two-month struggle to get a case plan written in Creole for a
Haitian family. When he can't find a DCF colleague to translate, Samis said, he
tries to find a sheriff's deputy or someone from the county government's
"language bank" volunteer group who speaks Spanish or Creole.

No money to pay translators

DCF's job categories don't include translators, and its budget doesn't include
money to pay for them. Last year, the district office used $ 2,200 from its
therapeutic services fund to fill 10 requests for translation services,
spokesman Heyer said.

"We do know the service is available," Samis said, "but if we need somebody in
15 minutes or half an hour, that would be a real problem. Once we hit the home,
we have to make a decision whether that child is safe or not."

Samis said the system also needs more parenting classes in native languages and
mentors for both children and parents, people who can explain in their own
tongue the changes they must make and why.

The state has to gain immigrants' trust by being visible in the community when
conditions aren't adverse, said Jack Levine, director of the Center for
Florida's Children, a Tallahassee-based advocacy group. Parents are reluctant to
fill out forms and disclose their names and addresses because most have fled
oppressive governments, he said, and when DCF enters their lives, it serves as a
reminder of the conditions they left behind.

''It's not their basic assumption that government is now your protector,''
Levine said.

Education is the best way to break down cultural barriers, said Tana Ebbole,
director of the Children's Services Council in Palm Beach County.

Ultimately, she said, state and local governments will need a diverse workforce
to stay in step with the cultural changes each immigrant group brings to
America. Palm Beach County's social service system is ''behind the curve'' in
keeping up with its new populations, said Paul Brown, who moved here from Miami
and took over the district DCF office two months ago.

''Ideally, you'd like to have your people working in the agency mirror the
population, and in a perfect world, they would,'' Brown said.

The demographic upheaval has been coming up the coast from Miami-Dade County for
years, Brown said, but institutions have difficulty reacting quickly to it.

''Then we turn around one day and say: 'Things have changed.' "

How we did this series

The Palm Beach Post teamed with the Southeast Florida Center on Aging at Florida
International University to review data from the U.S. Census and the University
of Florida and project what Palm Beach County will look like in the next
century.

Read more from this series and contact reporters with your comments at Palm
Beach Interactive: www.GoPBI.com/pbpost

COMING NEXT:

The changing face of our churches

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run Early.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (4 B&W & 1 C, 1. (B&W) Victor Perez (mug), 2. (B&W) Don Samis
(mug), 3. (B&W) Ketley Blaise (mug), 4. (B&W) DAVID SPENCER/Staff Photographer,
Language instructor Bito David says U.S. laws often penalize immigrants for
behavior commonly accepted in their native countries., 5. (C) MARK MIRKO/Staff
Photographer, ALSO INSIDE: Adoptive parents like dentist Maria Egusquiza are
often difficult to find in the Hispanic community. STORY, 6

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              268 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 25, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

COUNSELORS HELP IMMIGRANTS ADJUST TO NEW LIFESTYLES

BYLINE: Dan Moffett, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 580 words


Doctors, lawyers, teachers and businessmen come to Karina Danovich and tell her
how they make their living.

She hears how they wait tables, mow grass, spray bugs and paint houses.

A psychotherapist who counsels Latino immigrants, Danovich tries to repair the
damage done to families by the changes they must undergo to make new lives here.
For many professional men, that means taking jobs that are far below their
qualifications and social standing in their homelands.

''It's a horrible process for the man,'' she said. ''They usually go to work
anywhere, because they need to sustain the family. The male role changes, the
status changes and then the problems come.''

Three years of work for the Latin American Immigrant & Refugee Organization have
taught Danovich that often domestic violence is a consequence of the move to the
new world. Cases of spousal abuse reported to LAIRO have more than doubled
during the 1990s, and couples seeking counseling must clear a waiting list to be
seen.

''We've been surprised by the depth of the problem,'' said Clemencia Ortiz, the
executive director of LAIRO. ''We've seen a lot of violence, alcohol abuse,
divorce and separation. The numbers keep increasing.''

Latino women who come to the United States typically find freedoms here that
were far beyond their reach in their native lands. Often, women can find jobs as
housekeepers or cooks that pay more than what their husbands can earn and do not
require fluency in English.

''They see independence here that they want for themselves,'' Danovich said.

Latino husbands find it difficult not to be the primary provider for their
households, she said.

''I think it is a little worse for the Latin culture, because of the machismo
that is typical in these men,'' Danovich said.

''Some of these marriages were not good ones to begin with. Then when the
husband and wife are put into new roles in the new culture, a lot of the bad
things are forced to the surface.''

Danovich's approach to dealing with these abusive men is to impress upon them
the value of the work they do. Although they may not be able to practice
medicine or law as they once did, their contributions to the family's support
are still meaningful. Often the couples who turn to LAIRO for help come because
they are having problems with a misbehaving child.

''They will come into my office and say, 'Fix my kid,' '' Danovich said. ''But I
tell them, 'There's nothing wrong with your kid. Let me talk to you about what's
wrong with you.' Then you find the substance abuse and physical abuse in the
home that is causing the kid to act up.''

Victims of domestic abuse quickly learn a three-digit way to stop it: 9-1-1.
Latino fathers who spank their children with belts as they did in their homeland
are astonished to find that they can be taken to jail when their child calls the
emergency line. Immigrant kids learn from their peers at school the power they
can wield with a single 911 call.

''Fathers have no idea how to control their kids anymore because they're afraid
the kid will send them to jail,'' Danovich said.

The success rate of the LAIRO program is high, Danovich said, because of the
strong feelings Latino men have for the family unit. ''They love their wives,
and they love their kids,'' she said. ''They . . . will do what it takes to keep
them. I tell them they don't need to change who they are to do that - just make
a couple changes on how they look at things.''

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run Early.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, 'They will come into my office and say, ''Fix my kid.'' . .
. But I tell them, ''There's nothing wrong with your kid. Let me talk to you
about what's wrong with you.'' ', KARINA DANOVICH, Psychotherapist who counsels
Latino immigrants (mug

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              269 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 26, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SOME IMMIGRANTS FIND COOL WELCOME TO MELTING POT

BYLINE: Erin Coyle, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1394 words


For seven days in April, Jeremane Kastrate and her children lived in their car.

They scavenged the Kosovo roadside houses for flour and water during the day.
After dusk they locked themselves in the car - just one in a miles-long line of
vehicles waiting to cross the Kosovo border.

But they didn't know guards blocked the border.

More than a month later, the Kastrates abandoned their car and escaped by train.
Then they paid police to let them walk about 2 miles from a border depot to a
Macedonian refugee camp. On June 2, they were in West Palm Beach.

The trek, though harrowing, is actually a fast-track one to official status in
the United States, enjoyed only by immigrants whose plight is viewed favorably
by the U.S. government.

It's a highly political process. If you come from a communist country or a
former Soviet Union-controlled country, you usually can stay. Once you're
recognized as a refugee or have asylum status, you can apply for a work permit
and U.S. government aid, including welfare, food stamps and Medicaid. You also
can apply for that aid if you don't receive a response to your application after
six months.

''The majority of refugees prefer to work than receive money,'' said Odile
Dumas, of the Palm Beach County School District's job-training program for
refugees.

Yet, many people seeking safety here spend years in immigration limbo, not
knowing when or whether they will be deported.

''There are different policies for different countries,'' said Ann Marie
Alexandre of Catholic Charities, which helps reunite families and also provides
assistance to refugees without families.

In 1997 - the most recent year for which INS has statistics - 396,651 asylum
cases were open in the United States.

''The backlogs are huge. The numbers of persons that can continue to be here and
need services are astronomical,'' said Alfred Zucaro Jr., a West Palm Beach
immigration lawyer.

As long as America has been a melting pot, some immigrants have felt burned
here.

''We just spent seven years, and we're waiting. Who knows? Maybe we'll be like
this for life,'' said Samuel Merisier of West Palm Beach.

His family applied for asylum in 1993 after a U.S. Navy ship intercepted its
flotilla of Haitian boats. Spotlights locked on them as one boat sank in the
ocean. In their desperation to escape political death threats, Merisier's family
and 180 others had crammed into an 83-passenger wooden boat.

A day later, officers delivered them to Guantanamo Bay, where Merisier gave
authorities documents demonstrating the political affiliations endangering his
life. Because of this evidence, INS officers allowed him to travel to Miami and
apply for asylum. A volunteer agency helped Merisier find an immigration
attorney and move his family to Palm Beach County.

For six years, he and his wife have worked in the area while waiting to receive
hearing dates. Only two of the eight members of his family know their status -
the twins born two years ago are American citizens.

Refugees are distinguished from asylum seekers by the place where they apply for
assistance, INS officials said. Refugees flee their country first and request
resettlement in a third nation. Asylum-seekers apply in the United States or at
a port of entry.

Both must meet the same criterion: proving with evidence or testimony that they
have a well-founded fear of persecution because of race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group or political opinion.

But only refugees are safe from deportation when they reach U.S. soil. And they
can receive green cards a year after arriving.

In addition, Cubans enjoy a special status.

They can emigrate to the United States several ways. Some hope to win a spot
through a lottery system that allows 20,000 Cubans to resettle here annually.
The lottery doesn't cost anything, but winners need to pay $ 400 for a medical
exam and $ 50 a passport. In comparison, the average yearly salary for a doctor
in Cuba is about $ 240.

Because of the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, the United States allows Cubans who
touch American soil to remain in the country. The United States Catholic
Conference's office in Miami alone resettled 2,330 Cuban entrees between January
and June.

However, thousands of people remain in limbo each year.

Haitians and Guatemalans in Palm Beach County have started families and careers
while waiting almost a decade for INS to respond to their asylum applications.
Daniel Kane, an INS spokesman, said the agency never replied to them because
their cases lacked information necessary for approval. The government sometimes
allows people to stay in the United States until the economic or political
turmoil in their countries ends, Kane said.

''It was a compassionate act (to let) them to stay for so long,'' he said.

Some Haitians, Nicaraguans and Guatemalans are reapplying for asylum under
recently passed legislation, which acknowledges deportation would force some
people to leave the families, careers and property they acquired while living
here nearly a decade. Others must continue waiting for hearings. All fear
deportation.

''In a way, it's kind of a risk people are taking,'' said Lucio Perez-Reynozo,
executive director of the Guatemalan-Maya Center.

Miguel Angel Chiquil reapplied for asylum under one of these acts this year. The
Guatemalan army saw the Mayan Indian people as a problem and killed many in the
1980s, Chiquil said.

''It is persecution, ethnic, same problem as in Kosovo,'' Chiquil said.

After soldiers attacked his village, he walked through Mexico and crossed into
the United States at Tijuana. When he arrived in Los Angeles in 1989, he applied
for asylum, but he never received an appointment for a hearing. Three years
later, he informed INS when he drove across the country to Lake Worth, where he
still waits to learn whether he can stay.

''The hope for me here is my residence,'' Chiquil said.

Who can stay in the United States?

Those fleeing persecution

Immigrants can qualify for protected status under one of the following four
categories. Priority is given to reuniting families, and decisions are made on a
case-by-case basis. U.S. foreign policy dictates who is favored.

PAROLEES

WHO QUALIFIES

Individuals who are granted expedited entry into the United States. Humanitarian
paroles, which are rare, are granted by the attorney general.

EXAMPLES

Cuban pitcher Orlando 'El Duque' Hernandez was offered a humanitarian parole in
December 1997.

IF ACCEPTED...

Must pay $ 100 for work permit. Two volunteer agencies can provide resettlement
aid.

CUBAN

WHO QUALIFIES

All Cubans who reach the United States. The Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966 made it
illegal to deport them.

EXAMPLES

Cubans who arrive legally, by lottery (20,000 visas granted each year).

Cubans who arrive illegally, usually by boat.

IF ACCEPTED...

Must pay $ 100 for work permit. Eligible for green card after one

year. May be eligible for refugee benefits.

REFUGEES

WHO QUALIFIES

Groups with proof of per-secution whom the United States has granted refugee
status.* Each group has a quota. This year, 98,000 refugees may immigrate here.

EXAMPLES

Kosovar Albanians (at least 20,000 this year)

Vietnamese

Iraqis

Somalis

IF ACCEPTED...

Work permit granted automatically. Can receive green card after one year and
citizenship after five.

ASYLUM SEEKERS

WHO QUALIFIES

All others who don't qualify for refugee status and seek safety in the United
States. Asylum granted if threats deemed valid. Must arrive in the United States
to apply.

EXAMPLES

Cubans intercepted at sea

Haitians

Guatemalans

Salvadorans

Mexicans (few get approval)

Indians

IF ACCEPTED...

Must pay $ 100 for work permit. Must apply for green card after one year.

* Each year, the United States also designates certain nationals who may stay in
the United States temporarily.

- Those who meet legal immigration quotas

The United States allows a certain number of people to immigrate legally from
virtually all countries. Quotas, which vary by country, determine who is allowed
in to visit, study or work.

- Close relatives of residents or citizens

Spouses and dependent children are given priority. Certain medical emergencies
also are given special consideration.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W, 1. JENNIFER PODIS/Staff Photographer, The long trek of
Nita Kastrate (center) for asylum in the U.S. reached a happy ending at PBIA,
where she met her grandmother, Kimete Mati, and cousin, Brianna Mati, last
month., 2. RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer, Miguel Chiquil is one of many
who have reapplied for asylum.

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              270 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 29, 1999, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

HOSTILITY OF CUBAN PROTESTERS IS JUSTIFIABLE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 213 words


I must respond to the July 15 letter ''Cuban-Americans should respect law that
let them in U.S.'' I am not a Latino but a U.S. citizen by birth and the son of
an immigrant father.

I concur that the hostility displayed by the beachgoers toward the Coast Guard
and police was an incorrect course of action. At the same time, one can
appreciate the frustration of Cuban-Americans in support of their Cuban brothers
who flee from Fidel Castro's hell. Logically (as it is with most ethnic groups),
Cuban-Americans would be more focused on Cuban "rafters " as opposed to refugees
from other countries.

Nobody need concern themselves that any of their tax money will be used to
benefit Cuban refugees. The Cuban-American society possesses an extensive
network of aid and assistance.

Our wonderful country is a polyglot society, and diversity helps to make us such
a great nation. Many foreigners have risked losing their property and even their
lives to reach our land of opportunity. There is an urgent need for a revision
of our immigration laws.

American culture is an amalgam of ethnic cultures brought here by immigrants
from all over our planet. Just as racial or religious intolerance is
unacceptable, so, too, is xenophobia!

Walter M. Boden

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              271 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 31, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

TB SCREENING OF IMMIGRANTS TOO HAPHAZARD TO WORK WELL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 293 words


The July 21 article ''Immigrants' TB rates barely slow'' targets immigrants as
the major problem for tuberculosis control and prevention in Florida, yet fails
to provide explanations of this trend or any constructive solutions to the
problem. It is dangerous to label immigrants as major tuberculosis carriers
without describing the pitfalls of U.S. TB screening and treatment procedures
for immigrants.

Currently, TB screening in the United States is required only for immigrants
applying for permanent legal status.  Treatment is required of individuals
identified as having active TB but is not required of immigrants with latent TB.
Cultural and linguistic barriers, as well as difficulties in targeted screening
of high-risk immigrants, have contributed to large impediments in identifying
and treating immigrants once they have entered the U.S.

Instead of labeling immigration as a major problem for tuberculosis, health
departments should work hard to develop programs that increase the success of TB
identification and treatment of immigrants. Florida TB control programs should
develop epidemiologic profiles to identify immigrants at high risk for TB
infection and then begin targeted screening of these populations. Health
departments should work to overcome cultural and linguistic barriers by
providing education and training programs to health-care providers that help
them adapt their services to immigrants.

Tuberculosis is the second-leading infectious-disease killer that knows no
boundaries. It is time to address the obstacles to TB identification and
treatment of immigrants before it is too late.

Nawal Atwan

Vero Beach

Editor's note: Nawal Atwan works for the Princeton University Project 55
Tuberculosis Initiative.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              272 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 31, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

REVAMPED IMMIGRATION OFFICE STILL UNDER FIRE

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


The long lines are gone. Ill-tempered immigration examiners have been reassigned
and the rest were sent to customer service training.

But the changes at the immigration office on Northlake Boulevard are getting
mixed reviews from attorneys and others who go in search of work permits,
citizenship applications and residency cards.

"The new process stinks," said Miriam Etergenio, a Palm Beach County social
worker who often helps immigrants.

Phyllis Ruggiero, supervisor of the office at 4360 Northlake Blvd., said the
changes have improved services and things will be even better with nine new
immigration officers and a larger building within coming months.

Before the changes went into effect in May, immigrants lined up as early at 3
a.m. to be among the 200 people allowed inside each day to see an officer to
turn in forms or pick up work permits and other documents.

Now, those who come between 7 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. are given appointment dates -
usually two or three weeks away. Same-day appointments can be granted in
emergencies or for those traveling from distant reaches of the eight-county area
served by the office.

"You can now walk in and get an appointment (for another day) within five
minutes," Ruggiero said.

In response to complaints that employees are often rude, all 15 workers took
customer service classes earlier this month, said Don Neufeld, an assistant
district director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami. He
said some security guards who were unhelpful to immigrants were fired and
replaced.

Neufeld promises more changes: The number of officers who assist immigrants will
more than triple by the end of the year, going from four to 13.

Neufeld said the main reason for the new employees is to handle citizenship
applications, which now take as long as two years to review. The INS hopes to
cut the wait to six months.

The office is also negotiating to move from its cramped quarters to the Port
Executive Plaza at 301 Broadway in Riviera Beach. INS officials hope to move in
by the end of the year.

Attorneys and others who frequently visit the Northlake office say they are
pleased the lines are gone, but they don't like the delayed appointments and
longer waits for many.

The priority given to citizenship applications means immigrants seeking other
services face longer waits than before, said Jeff Devore, a West Palm Beach
immigration attorney. Some clients are waiting 70 days for a work permit, he
said.

Etergenio said the old system was bad, but at least immigrants could be seen on
the same day. Now, she said, some people with expiring work permits could lose
their jobs because of the time it takes to get renewals.

"The system is defeating the purpose," she said. "We are trying to get
immigrants gainfully employed, but we are making them trip and fall."

Elsa Gibbons, who helps immigrants seeking services, said the office is badly
understaffed. And people still go to the office in the early morning because the
INS has not advertised its new hours and appointment system, she said. The new
procedure is posted outside, but even that is out of date. It says to return
between 1:30 and 2:30 p.m. to make an appointment.

An office recording that had been giving out wrong information for three months
was fixed Friday.

Get in touch

How to contact immigration officials:

Recorded information at Northlake Boulevard office: (561) 691-9446

Live assistance: (800) 375-5283

Order forms: (800) 870-3676

Web site: www.ins.usdoj.gov

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              273 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 10, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

YOU CAN RUN, BUT YOU CAN'T HIDE FROM HEAT CAMERA

BYLINE: J.J. Thompson, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 303 words


Two illegal Haitian immigrants discovered early Monday that darkness and woods
no longer provide cover from police.

Juno Beach police officer Andrew Luscavich picked up two women after spotting
them outside the Hampton Inn, 13801 U.S. 1, while using one of the department's
new thermal-imaging cameras.

The camera, nicknamed "R2D2" because it resembles the robot from Star Wars, is
mounted atop a police car and detects anything that emits heat within 2,400
feet. A screen inside the car provides an outline of the image.

Juno Beach police bought two cameras with a federal grant and money from traffic
fines. They cost about $ 13,000 each.

"They've been paying off since we bought them," said Assistant Chief H.C. Clark
II.

The department also uses the cameras to look for burglars outside homes and
turtle-nest robbers on the beach.

Luscavich's camera picked up three people in the hotel parking lot at about
12:30 a.m. Monday, but they fled to a wooded area, police said. Officers found
two women hiding in nearby bushes.

A third person reportedly ran deeper into the woods. A Palm Beach County
Sheriff's Office helicopter with infrared equipment detected something, but
officers could not reach the spot. Infrared cameras pick up light unseen by the
naked eye.

Police arrested five other illegal Haitian immigrants between 12:30 and 5:40
a.m., all near the intersection of U.S. 1 and Donald Ross Road. They may have
been dropped off near shore by a boat, said Mike Flanagan, senior patrol agent
for the U.S. Border Patrol.

The first two women arrested were wet from the knees down.

The four men and three women, all in their 20s and 30s, were taken to Krome
Detention Center near Miami, Flanagan said.

He wasn't sure if the person who ran into the woods escaped or was caught later.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              274 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 15, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

NO END TO THIS MISTAKE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 347 words


Not surprisingly, the Coast Guard has written a bizarre ending to a bizarre
incident on June 29 in which the Coast Guard was trying to enforce a bizarre
policy.

That afternoon, six illegal immigrants from Cuba were trying to reach the shore
in Surfside, at the northern end of Miami-Dade County. Those who managed to
reach dry land would have become legal immigrants, but the policy that President
Clinton approved in 1995 also requires the Coast Guard to keep immigrants from
getting to the shore.

Attempting to do so, Coast Guard officers used pepper spray and water cannons on
some of the Cubans. The confrontation looked dangerous and comical at the same
time. TV broadcast it all live. Cuban-American politicians called the White
House, which timidly backed away from all comment on its policy.

So the Coast Guard ordered an investigation. The conclusion: The use of pepper
spray was "inappropriate," but there will be no punishment for any of the
officers. Eight guardsmen were reassigned.

That finding didn't please anyone. Exile groups wanted something stronger.
Rank-and-file members of the Coast Guard wanted something weaker. But what else
can you expect from an investigation into a policy that doesn't make sense?

In 1994, after 35,000 Cubans came to Florida in one summer, Mr. Clinton agreed
to accept 20,000 a year, provided they apply in their country. At that point,
the United States should have changed its mid-1960s policy of granting asylum to
any Cuban who comes here. Instead, we got the "wet foot" policy - dry land, you
stay - that led to the strange scene nearly two months ago.

A sensible immigration policy would provide equal treatment for all illegal
immigrants who are caught. Some have legitimate fears of persecution. But the
Border Patrol estimates that as many as three-fourths of Cuban immigrants get
help from smugglers, raising the chance that they are economic refugees.

We already have a bizarre foreign policy toward Cuba. Our bizarre immigration
policy makes it hard to find any villains from what happened on June 29.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              275 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 22, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

MORE CEREMONY, MORE RITUAL, MORE EMOTION;
HOW IMMIGRANTS ARE PUTTING FIRE INTO THAT OLD-TIME RELIGION

BYLINE: Douglas Belkin, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1545 words


Though Our Lady Queen of Peace Mission way out past the Kings Point Retirement
Community west of Delray Beach was founded by three nuns in 1958 to reach out to
migrant Mexican farmworkers, a growing number of Brazilians have been showing up
for Mass the past few years.

So this summer, the Diocese of Palm Beach sent Father Matthew Didone, the
mission's Italian-born pastor, to Brazil, to bone up on his Portuguese.

The scene tells the story of the future of religion in Palm Beach County: A
Spanish-speaking Italian priest leads Portuguese-speaking Brazilian immigrants
in a Catholic Mass at a Mexican mission down the road from a retirement
community filled with New Yorkers with Yiddish accents.

Utah, this isn't.

Florida is a universe unto itself, a Bible Belt state attached to a Latin
American province, decorated along the coasts with a handful of Yankee outposts.
While Southern Baptists make up about half the population in northern and
central Florida, they account for only 10 percent of the population here.

Between Jupiter and Boca Raton, the Grahams have been outnumbered by the
Goldbergs and the O'Sheas and, more and more, by the Garcias as well. The rest
is a potpourri of Pentecostals, Episcopalians, Lutherans, nondenominational
Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses, Muslims, Hindus, Jews for Jesus, Buddhists and
a variety of Eastern Orthodox - to name just a few.

On any given Sunday morning, there are almost as many worship services
countywide in Spanish as there are in English, and in the not-too-distant future
there will probably be more. Migrating north with hundreds of thousands of
Hispanics is a religious tidal wave widely recognized as the largest Christian
movement in the world: the evangelical and Pentecostal churches.

Hispanics who used to be a natural constituency for the Catholic church have
been departing by the millions - some say upwards of 33 million - to this
charismatic branch of the Protestant church. And the movement is starting to
change the demography of major cities in places like Florida and Texas. While it
has little more than a foothold in Palm Beach County now, it is poised to remake
the county in its own image in the century to come.

A Florida International University study commissioned by The Palm Beach Post
projects that Hispanics will displace the Anglo majority in Palm Beach County by
2025. Many of those immigrants will be practicing Pentecostals.

Compared to the staid services in a traditional Presbyterian church or Jewish
synagogue, the cadence and spirit of a Pentecostal service can be like a walk in
another world. The draw of charismatic worship is as advertised - charismatic.
The prayers are loud, the music is louder, and when the Holy Spirit moves, it
doesn't stand on ceremony. Congregants speak in tongues, pastors heal with
faith, sinners bathe their repentance with tears and worship is immediate and
joyful.

''Something changes the spirit, man,'' says Ron Sanderson, pastor of the Boynton
Beach Church of God, who was accompanied during a service by two trumpeters, two
pianists, a bassist, a drummer and several singers. ''When you have ownership
over something, you have a tendency to get more out of it . . . you don't just
sit still through a Sunday morning in church.''

Religious demography in America is a tricky business. Most organizations track
their numbers, but few objective sources are around to confirm them. J. Lee
Grady, the editor of Charisma Magazine, which covers the evangelical community,
may have as good a perspective on the Pentecostal world as anyone, and he says
the movement has not yet begun to peak.

''This is a phenomenon that is having and will continue to have an enormous
impact on this country,'' Grady said. ''It's still growing and it will continue
to for some time.''

That growth is having consequences. The Catholic church has been caught on the
defensive. Though the Diocese of Palm Beach offers Mass in Spanish, Mayan,
Tagalog, Vietnamese, Korean, French and Portuguese, it is a step behind in
attracting - or holding - the immigrant community.

Bishop Anthony O'Connell criticizes Pentecostalists for their aggressive
proselytizing, calling it a lack of sensitivity. Still, O'Connell believes the
Catholic church has been in denial when it comes to immigration and evangelism.

''In most cases, we've done nothing,'' O'Connell said. ''We're already so far
behind with the people already tripping at the door.''

It's not that the diocese is ignoring the problem. Rather, it is reacting
slowly. The congregation at St. Juliana's in West Palm Beach is 50 percent
Hispanic, but it wasn't until two months ago that this Spanish-speaking pastor
arrived. As the bishop put it, ''By then, things were at the burning point.''

''The Hispanics of this country have been called the prophetic voice, and it's
very important for us to listen to that voice or we're going to miss the boat,''
said Didone of Our Lady Queen of Peace. ''We cannot make them American
overnight; we have to adapt to them and understand the way they live, and then
we can sort of meet them halfway.''

Halfway means different things at different parishes and missions. At our Lady
Queen of Peace, it means a salsa rhythm at services delivered in Spanish for the
Spanish-speaking and Portuguese for the Portuguese-speaking. It also means the
celebration of different feasts - like the Festival for Our Lady of Guadalupe -
and church-sponsored soccer games on Sunday afternoons.

Although Hispanics have traditionally been emotional in their services, they are
at the forefront of a nationwide trend, clergy say. Emotionalism in worship is
spreading through virtually every Christian denomination, according to
sociologists and church leaders.

In Southern Baptist churches, for example, praise choruses have reordered the
church service over the past decade. No longer will a few hymns and a lone organ
keep the church full, says DeWitt Mathews, pastor of the First Baptist Church of
Lake Worth. Today, Southern Baptists rock, they sing loud and they sing often.

''The churches that stick with that old recipe are fading,'' Mathews said. ''The
new direction is joyful prayer, and it absolutely works.''

So does missionary work. Of 80 Southern Baptist churches in Palm Beach County,
more than half are for non-English speakers - including churches that conduct
services in Arabic and Chinese. Some Southern Baptist churches are even dropping
the words ''Southern Baptist'' from their names in an effort to attract new
members who might be turned off by a denomination long associated with
whites-only worship, according to Herb Dickinson, the director of missions at
The Palm Lake Baptist Association.

While traditions of austerity don't seem to fit the age, traditions of mystery
do. Ethnic Orthodox churches - which have a 2,000-year-old track record evoking
a sense of mystery with incense, candles and wonder-inducing chants - are also
experiencing a swell in attendance, while the more staid mainline Protestant
churches are having a hard time holding on to their congregations.
Episcopalians, Methodists and Presbyterians have all reported decreases in
church attendance in recent years.

Among Jews, the old seems to be new again. The governing body of Reform Judaism,
the biggest and most liberal branch of American Jewry, voted in May to adopt a
strategy of returning to the more traditional use of Hebrew during worship
services after decades of minimizing it. Chabad Lubavitch, Judaism rooted in
18th-century European customs and traditions, is flourishing in Boca Raton,
where a new center was opened two months ago.

And in Montoya Circle, an Orthodox community in suburban Boca Raton where
practically no one drives on the Sabbath, the community has grown from just a
few families a decade ago to several hundred today.

Even Kabbalah, the ancient study of Jewish mysticism, has been mass-marketed
across the country and gained enormous popularity as a key to experience God and
the divine.

Countywide, the Jewish community has grown from 10,000 in 1970 to more than
225,000 today, according to Ira Sheskin, a geographer at the University of
Miami.  As powerful as all these forces are, organized religion has not made any
notable inroads into the non-observant community this decade. While about 83
percent of Americans say faith is important in their lives, only 41 percent
attend services weekly, according to a religious polling and marketing company
in California.

Those who are observant are getting more observant, said Terriel Byrd, a
professor of Christian sociology at Palm Beach Atlantic College, and those who
are not observant are getting less so. In the aftermath of shootings that have
rocked the country in the past few months, what role the church takes in working
toward social justice and making itself more relevant to everyone will become
increasingly important, Byrd said.

''Dr. (Martin Luther) King's Letter From a Birmingham Jail was written 30 years
ago, not as a commendation for the work the church had been doing, but rather as
a condemnation for the work they hadn't been doing,'' Byrd said. ''There has
been some progress made, but I think that same letter would be relevant today.''

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: 1. MARVIN JOSEPH/Staff Photographer, The Rev. Matthew Didone of Our
Lady of Peace Mission near Delray Beach has a diverse Catholic congregation., 2.
MARVIN JOSEPH/Staff Photographer, Rabbi Moishe Denburg during a Chabad Lubavitch
worship service in Boca Raton., 3. GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, Kazi Ahmed
worships at the Muslim Community of the Palm Beaches mosque in suburban West
Palm Beach., 4. SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, Michael Blake of Lake Worth
professes his faith at the city's First Baptist Church. Behind him is Sandy
Davis of Lake Worth, and at right is Sylvia Zolkov of Greenacres and her
5-year-old son, Travis. DeWitt Mathews is the Lake Worth church's pastor., (B&W)
DeWitt Mathews, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lake Worth, leads his
congregation in a prayer for the students of the church. Mathews says a few
hymns and an organ won't keep the church full. Today, Southern Baptists sing
loud and they sing often.

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              276 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 22, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

MORE CEREMONY, MORE RITUAL, MORE EMOTION;
HOW IMMIGRANTS ARE PUTTING FIRE INTO THAT OLD-TIME RELIGION

BYLINE: Douglas Belkin, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1545 words


Though Our Lady Queen of Peace Mission way out past the Kings Point Retirement
Community west of Delray Beach was founded by three nuns in 1958 to reach out to
migrant Mexican farmworkers, a growing number of Brazilians have been showing up
for Mass the past few years.

So this summer, the Diocese of Palm Beach sent Father Matthew Didone, the
mission's Italian-born pastor, to Brazil, to bone up on his Portuguese.

The scene tells the story of the future of religion in Palm Beach County: A
Spanish-speaking Italian priest leads Portuguese-speaking Brazilian immigrants
in a Catholic Mass at a Mexican mission down the road from a retirement
community filled with New Yorkers with Yiddish accents.

Utah, this isn't.

Florida is a universe unto itself, a Bible Belt state attached to a Latin
American province, decorated along the coasts with a handful of Yankee outposts.
While Southern Baptists make up about half the population in northern and
central Florida, they account for only 10 percent of the population here.

Between Jupiter and Boca Raton, the Grahams have been outnumbered by the
Goldbergs and the O'Sheas and, more and more, by the Garcias as well. The rest
is a potpourri of Pentecostals, Episcopalians, Lutherans, nondenominational
Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses, Muslims, Hindus, Jews for Jesus, Buddhists and
a variety of Eastern Orthodox - to name just a few.

On any given Sunday morning, there are almost as many worship services
countywide in Spanish as there are in English, and in the not-too-distant future
there will probably be more. Migrating north with hundreds of thousands of
Hispanics is a religious tidal wave widely recognized as the largest Christian
movement in the world: the evangelical and Pentecostal churches.

Hispanics who used to be a natural constituency for the Catholic church have
been departing by the millions - some say upwards of 33 million - to this
charismatic branch of the Protestant church. And the movement is starting to
change the demography of major cities in places like Florida and Texas. While it
has little more than a foothold in Palm Beach County now, it is poised to remake
the county in its own image in the century to come.

A Florida International University study commissioned by The Palm Beach Post
projects that Hispanics will displace the Anglo majority in Palm Beach County by
2025. Many of those immigrants will be practicing Pentecostals.

Compared to the staid services in a traditional Presbyterian church or Jewish
synagogue, the cadence and spirit of a Pentecostal service can be like a walk in
another world. The draw of charismatic worship is as advertised - charismatic.
The prayers are loud, the music is louder, and when the Holy Spirit moves, it
doesn't stand on ceremony. Congregants speak in tongues, pastors heal with
faith, sinners bathe their repentance with tears and worship is immediate and
joyful.

''Something changes the spirit, man,'' says Ron Sanderson, pastor of the Boynton
Beach Church of God, who was accompanied during a service by two trumpeters, two
pianists, a bassist, a drummer and several singers. ''When you have ownership
over something, you have a tendency to get more out of it . . . you don't just
sit still through a Sunday morning in church.''

Religious demography in America is a tricky business. Most organizations track
their numbers, but few objective sources are around to confirm them. J. Lee
Grady, the editor of Charisma Magazine, which covers the evangelical community,
may have as good a perspective on the Pentecostal world as anyone, and he says
the movement has not yet begun to peak.

''This is a phenomenon that is having and will continue to have an enormous
impact on this country,'' Grady said. ''It's still growing and it will continue
to for some time.''

That growth is having consequences. The Catholic church has been caught on the
defensive. Though the Diocese of Palm Beach offers Mass in Spanish, Mayan,
Tagalog, Vietnamese, Korean, French and Portuguese, it is a step behind in
attracting - or holding - the immigrant community.

Bishop Anthony O'Connell criticizes Pentecostalists for their aggressive
proselytizing, calling it a lack of sensitivity. Still, O'Connell believes the
Catholic church has been in denial when it comes to immigration and evangelism.

''In most cases, we've done nothing,'' O'Connell said. ''We're already so far
behind with the people already tripping at the door.''

It's not that the diocese is ignoring the problem. Rather, it is reacting
slowly. The congregation at St. Juliana's in West Palm Beach is 50 percent
Hispanic, but it wasn't until two months ago that this Spanish-speaking pastor
arrived. As the bishop put it, ''By then, things were at the burning point.''

''The Hispanics of this country have been called the prophetic voice, and it's
very important for us to listen to that voice or we're going to miss the boat,''
said Didone of Our Lady Queen of Peace. ''We cannot make them American
overnight; we have to adapt to them and understand the way they live, and then
we can sort of meet them halfway.''

Halfway means different things at different parishes and missions. At our Lady
Queen of Peace, it means a salsa rhythm at services delivered in Spanish for the
Spanish-speaking and Portuguese for the Portuguese-speaking. It also means the
celebration of different feasts - like the Festival for Our Lady of Guadalupe -
and church-sponsored soccer games on Sunday afternoons.

Although Hispanics have traditionally been emotional in their services, they are
at the forefront of a nationwide trend, clergy say. Emotionalism in worship is
spreading through virtually every Christian denomination, according to
sociologists and church leaders.

In Southern Baptist churches, for example, praise choruses have reordered the
church service over the past decade. No longer will a few hymns and a lone organ
keep the church full, says DeWitt Mathews, pastor of the First Baptist Church of
Lake Worth. Today, Southern Baptists rock, they sing loud and they sing often.

''The churches that stick with that old recipe are fading,'' Mathews said. ''The
new direction is joyful prayer, and it absolutely works.''

So does missionary work. Of 80 Southern Baptist churches in Palm Beach County,
more than half are for non-English speakers - including churches that conduct
services in Arabic and Chinese. Some Southern Baptist churches are even dropping
the words ''Southern Baptist'' from their names in an effort to attract new
members who might be turned off by a denomination long associated with
whites-only worship, according to Herb Dickinson, the director of missions at
The Palm Lake Baptist Association.

While traditions of austerity don't seem to fit the age, traditions of mystery
do. Ethnic Orthodox churches - which have a 2,000-year-old track record evoking
a sense of mystery with incense, candles and wonder-inducing chants - are also
experiencing a swell in attendance, while the more staid mainline Protestant
churches are having a hard time holding on to their congregations.
Episcopalians, Methodists and Presbyterians have all reported decreases in
church attendance in recent years.

Among Jews, the old seems to be new again. The governing body of Reform Judaism,
the biggest and most liberal branch of American Jewry, voted in May to adopt a
strategy of returning to the more traditional use of Hebrew during worship
services after decades of minimizing it. Chabad Lubavitch, Judaism rooted in
18th-century European customs and traditions, is flourishing in Boca Raton,
where a new center was opened two months ago.

And in Montoya Circle, an Orthodox community in suburban Boca Raton where
practically no one drives on the Sabbath, the community has grown from just a
few families a decade ago to several hundred today.

Even Kabbalah, the ancient study of Jewish mysticism, has been mass-marketed
across the country and gained enormous popularity as a key to experience God and
the divine.

Countywide, the Jewish community has grown from 10,000 in 1970 to more than
225,000 today, according to Ira Sheskin, a geographer at the University of
Miami.  As powerful as all these forces are, organized religion has not made any
notable inroads into the non-observant community this decade. While about 83
percent of Americans say faith is important in their lives, only 41 percent
attend services weekly, according to a religious polling and marketing company
in California.

Those who are observant are getting more observant, said Terriel Byrd, a
professor of Christian sociology at Palm Beach Atlantic College, and those who
are not observant are getting less so. In the aftermath of shootings that have
rocked the country in the past few months, what role the church takes in working
toward social justice and making itself more relevant to everyone will become
increasingly important, Byrd said.

''Dr. (Martin Luther) King's Letter From a Birmingham Jail was written 30 years
ago, not as a commendation for the work the church had been doing, but rather as
a condemnation for the work they hadn't been doing,'' Byrd said. ''There has
been some progress made, but I think that same letter would be relevant today.''

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: 1. MARVIN JOSEPH/Staff Photographer, The Rev. Matthew Didone of Our
Lady of Peace Mission near Delray Beach has a diverse Catholic congregation., 2.
MARVIN JOSEPH/Staff Photographer, Rabbi Moishe Denburg during a Chabad Lubavitch
worship service in Boca Raton., 3. GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, Kazi Ahmed
worships at the Muslim Community of the Palm Beaches mosque in suburban West
Palm Beach., 4. SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, Michael Blake of Lake Worth
professes his faith at the city's First Baptist Church. Behind him is Sandy
Davis of Lake Worth, and at right is Sylvia Zolkov of Greenacres and her
5-year-old son, Travis. DeWitt Mathews is the Lake Worth church's pastor., (B&W)
DeWitt Mathews, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lake Worth, leads his
congregation in a prayer for the students of the church. Mathews says a few
hymns and an organ won't keep the church full. Today, Southern Baptists sing
loud and they sing often.

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              277 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 23, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

HEALTH-CLINIC EXPENSES ON THE LEGISLATURE'S TAB

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 404 words


The state wants to charge poor people a small fee for care at public health
clinics. That might drive away non-English speaking immigrants and increase
costs. What brilliant thinking.

Not that the public health system can't use more money. Despite population
growth and heavy immigration in South Florida, the Legislature has decreased
what the state provides by nearly $ 10 million, to $ 21.5 million. Lawmakers did
so thinking that putting poor people in Medicaid managed-care plans would save
money, since the federal government would pay half. Today, as HMOs get out of
the money-losing Medicaid business, most recently in Ohio, that "thinking" is
being questioned.

Last month, the Florida Department of Health proposed charging $ 5 per
primary-care visit for people who don't have insurance from Medicaid or, in Palm
Beach County, from the health-care district. The fees are far from final and
would not apply to pediatrics, urgent care, prenatal care, family planning and
treatment for diseases such as AIDS.

The fees, however, would cost something to collect. In Palm Beach County
clinics, 20,000 of the 60,000 patients are "self-pay." That means some pay
something according to a sliding scale. But more pay nothing, especially poor
immigrants. Hospitals that admit the poor, such as St. Mary's Medical Center in
West Palm Beach, also lose, and must offset losses by increasing charges to
paying patients.

About 3 million Floridians have no health insurance. Two-thirds of them are
below the poverty line. Health Secretary Bob Brooks says that before considering
fees, officials discussed "every other conceivable funding mechanism." They also
believed that paying something, even as little as $ 1 a visit, increases
self-respect and the value of the care.

But why not ask the Legislature? Lawmakers will be working next session on
Kidcare, the state health insurance program for children. The economy continues
to boom. Yet state officials say the timing's not "auspicious." It never is. Dr.
Brooks points to Gov. Chiles' unsuccessful effort in the mid-1990s to pass
Florida Health Security, a plan to help 1 million working poor people buy
insurance.

Everyone needs treatment for contagious diseases so the diseases don't spread.
All pregnant women need care so they don't have premature infants that cost 50
times more. Health clinics don't deny care, and lawmakers shouldn't deny
payment.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              278 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 27, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

BILLBOARD 'PATRIOT' MIGHT AS WELL WEAR A SHEET;

BYLINE: George McEvoy

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 611 words


Patriotism is certainly taking on some odd forms these days.

There are nuts running around the forests in camouflage fatigues, brandishing
automatic weapons, who call themselves patriots.

Fat clowns in white sheets consider a fiery cross to be a patriotic symbol.

A presidential hopeful who thinks we should have allowed the Nazis to win the
war is hailed as a great patriot by his knuckle-dragging admirers.

That rustling sound you hear is George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, James
Madison and Tom Paine turning over in their graves.

And now comes a guy from Queens who has launched a one-man campaign to halt
immigration into this country.

He has erected billboards - four so far - in heavily trafficked parts of Queens
and Brooklyn, calling for an end to legal immigration, and he says he intends to
carry his campaign into other states, especially ones with ports of entry, such
as Florida.

The latest billboard, near the Williamsburg Bridge in Brooklyn, stands about 20
feet high and 40 feet wide, according to The New York Times. In huge letters, it
proclaims that immigrants soon will swell the population of the United States to
a half-billion, and it ends with the words - ''Help us, Congress - An American
Kid, age 6.''

Craig Nelsen, the man who is paying for the billboards, has admitted that he
invented the 6-year-old kid and the quote, but that doesn't seem to bother him.

Nor does the fact that the city has been tearing down his billboards almost as
fast as he puts them up, because he fails to get a license.

''I hope they rip it down,'' he said after unveiling the Williamsburg billboard.
''The more they squawk, the better we look. The average American just agrees
with us on this. Every time the city rips down a billboard, it just strengthens
our position.''

A billboard he put up near the Brooklyn side of the Manhattan Bridge read:
''Tired of traffic? Every day, another 6,000 immigrants arrive. Every day!''

Mr. Nelsen also has a Web site on the Internet called ProjectUSA. I tapped in on
it and was astonished to be told - ''You are patriot number 41,142 to visit
since 6/1 2/99.''

It's nice to be called a patriot, but I'm not sure I appreciate being made into
a number.

Anyway, the Web page shouts, ''We're Putting Up Billboards All Across America!
It's time to do something about immigration NOW!''

I tried to reach Mr. Nelsen without success. I guess he was out putting up
billboards.

But I wanted to ask him what tribe the Nelsen family belonged to. Cherokee?
Maybe Cheyenne?

I know it's not a Mohawk name because one of my maternal great-grandmothers was
a full-blooded Mohawk, and they don't have names like his. If it was Running
Deer or White Cloud, perhaps, but not Nelsen.

And having lived several years in Arizona, I can truthfully attest that I never
heard of a Navajo, Hopi or Apache named Nelsen.

Mr. Nelsen has his supporters, however.

Tino Lopez, 17, who lives near the Williamsburg billboard, was quoted as saying
he agreed with its sentiments.

''There are too many immigrants in New York,'' young Lopez said. ''They are a
bunch of pains.''

His parents moved to New York from Puerto Rico before he was born. Since Puerto
Rico is part of the U.S., they were not really immigrants, but neither were they
native New Yorkers.

Young Lopez had this to say this about immigrants:

''They are not the same as us.''

I think that's the same thing the Indians said when they first saw people with
names like Nelsen, Lopez or, for that matter, McEvoy - ''They are not the same
as us.''

George McEvoy is a columnist for The Palm Beach Post. His e-mail address is
gfamx4@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              279 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 2, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

PROJECTUSA.COM RAISES GOOD QUESTIONS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 212 words


After reading George McEvoy's criticism in Monday's column ''Billboard 'patriot'
might as well wear a sheet'' of Craig Nelsen and his Web site, ProjectUSA.com, I
took a look and found an eye-opener.

Unlike The Palm Beach Post's ongoing series on immigration and its effects
(''The changing face of Palm Beach County''), Mr. Nelsen's site includes The
Washington Post's series on the subject. It is far more objective and
thought-provoking than the cheerleader approach taken by your series.

In fact, the Washington Post's 1999 series takes a position echoed in the rest
of Mr. Nelsen's Web site. The rapid immigration since the floodgates were opened
in 1965 is ''a large and growing factor in the stubborn level of poverty seen in
the U.S.''

The series also cites the divisiveness of ''diversity'' and the unwillingness of
current immigrants to assimilate, and notes the special effects of immigration
on the progress and displacement of African-American citizens.

I think Mr. Nelsen's Web site raises fair questions about our government and its
immigration policies. Beyond that, I would ask, why can't issues such as this be
raised anymore without outcries of ''racist''? Has political correctness truly
stifled all debate?

C. Farrington

Jupiter


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              280 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 13, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

KEEP U.S.-CUBA TALKS OUT OF FIGHT FOR ELIAN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 393 words


Elian Gonzalez is the child at the center of an international dispute. That much
is certain. The uncertainty is whether any of the players are going to act like
adults.

Fidel Castro isn't, that's for sure. He's been orchestrating demonstrations
across Cuba to agitate for the "kidnapped" boy's return. Less vociferous but
just as calculated have been the photo-ops staged by the Miami relatives who
swear Elian never will go back to his father in Cuba.

If there are adults - and there probably are on both sides - they're worried
about keeping the fight over Elian from ruining agreements between Cuba and the
United States that have made the trip across the Florida Straits safer for many.

Specifically, they want to keep this week's scheduled immigration talks on
track. Now, 20,000 Cubans a year can apply for visas and come here without
having to entrust their fate to a raft or a smuggler or both. The rules require
the U.S. to send back any Cubans caught at sea, and Castro must accept them. But
wasn't Elian rescued at sea? Well . . .

Consequences if immigration talks go awry are typical of the pretzel logic that
drives U.S.-Cuba relations. Castro could unleash another tide of refugees -
which only proves how many Cubans despise his regime. And while the Cuban exile
community in South Florida would welcome Castro's decision to let so many seek
freedom, every exodus depletes pro-democracy forces inside Cuba.

If the struggle over Elian ends in mutual damage, that's just an extension of
decades of bad policies. The U.S. doesn't want a refugee crisis, but we apply an
economic embargo that encourages Cubans to flee. Castro, meanwhile, uses the
embargo to prop up his popularity vs. the evil United States - a crutch he would
not need if he adopted reasonable economic and political reforms.

The diplomatic tangle is a mess, but the more-adult state court system may have
final say in Elian's fate. Of course, it's hard to envision any judge in
Miami-Dade County who hopes to be reelected sending the boy back. And Elian's
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, was uncertain last week whether he would press his
claims through U.S. courts.

The courts are the best place to determine where Elian will grow up. That's
particularly true since there's no telling whether those conducting U.S.-Cuba
policy ever will decide to grow up.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              281 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 21, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

KEEP TALKING TO CUBA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 400 words


We don't know at this point all of what passed between United States and Cuban
officials over the weekend and ended the hostage standoff at a Louisiana prison.
It is clear, however, that things work better when the two countries speak with
each other.

One could find in the standoff the usual fault lines of the U.S.-Cuba
relationship. The seven prisoners who took hostages in St. Martinville, La.,
came here during the Mariel boatlift of 1980, when Castro released many
criminals and allowed them to leave as part of the 125,000 who arrived that
year. So there's the immigration issue. They committed crimes in America. After
serving their sentences, an immigration judge ordered them deported to Cuba. But
the Cuban government would not accept them. So there's the foreign-policy issue,
since the U.S. and Cuba do not have full diplomatic relations.

Like roughly 2,400 other Cubans whom the courts consider to be a public threat,
the seven were in an American prison at high cost to the taxpayer. The federal
government pays local governments a premium to house such inmates because the
risks are great, especially when they are held in large numbers. In 1987, groups
of Cuban inmates staged riots at prisons in Atlanta and Arkansas.

Justice Department officials said Cuba agreed to take the seven in Louisiana
because they had asked to go back to their native country. The next step will be
to find out whether the United States agreed to anything in return that might
involve Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old boy whom Fidel Castro wants returned to
his father in Cuba and whom Cuban-American exile groups want to remain with
relatives in the United States. His mother and stepfather died attempting to
reach America.

Unlike the inmates, Elian evokes sympathy. Both cases, however, serve as
reminders that when it comes to most things on Cuba, the U.S. has had to react.
We had no plan to deal with Mariel, and we had no plan to deal with potentially
defective nuclear reactors. Though the seven in Louisiana will go back, we have
no plan for the many other inmates we want to deport, nor does it seem that we
know what to do with Elian.

U.S.-Cuban relations have eased a little this year as the Clinton administration
has relaxed some travel restrictions. Improving the relationship would make it
easier to keep each incident between the two countries from becoming a crisis.


LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              282 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 5, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

ON WATCH FOR TB

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 378 words


With tuberculosis still ravaging developing countries, it makes sense to screen
people entering the United States for the disease. In South Florida, where many
immigrants enter illegally, that's no less important. But since screening isn't
practical, health officials need to use more creative methods.

Tuberculosis also was widespread and deadly in this country until scientists
developed antibiotics. Today's threat comes from immigrants who bring the
infection with them. With immigration at an all-time high, the federal Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention says major screening programs are necessary
in cities with large foreign-born populations. But that won't work in Palm Beach
County and most parts of Florida.

"There is no way to identify and screen illegal immigrants," says Dr. Mariana
Loor, director of the county health department's division of HIV/AIDS, sexually
transmitted diseases and tuberculosis. "So we go to neighborhoods where people
are most at risk for TB, where there is poverty, where people lack access to
health care and where immigrants live. We talk to groups in churches and other
places about the symptoms of TB and how to get care at our clinics."

Because the bacteria that cause this lung infection are spread by coughing,
health officials act quickly when an outbreak occurs, testing anyone who may
have come in contact with the infected person and treating those who need
antibiotics. That's what happened in May 1998, when Marlene Donna, a Spanish
River High School freshman whose family is from Haiti, developed active TB.

During the 1990s, tuberculosis also increased in America due to AIDS,. Because
AIDS, TB and homelessness often go together, the A.G. Holley State Hospital in
Lantana, Florida's only remaining TB hospital, treats people who must be
hospitalized to prevent them from spreading the disease.

The CDC is right to promote screening until an effective vaccine is available.
In California, for example, immigrants accounted for 70 percent of TB cases in
1998. In New York, they made up 53 percent. But the federal government controls
the borders. More effective control would reduce the number of illegal
immigrants, which would increase the ability to screen for such diseases as TB.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              283 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 5, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

ANCHOR REFUGEE POLICY WITH UPDATED RULES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 404 words


Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban boy rescued at sea Thanksgiving Day, got a trip to
Disney World in December. On Monday, 29 children intercepted at sea on a boat
crowded with would-be immigrants got a trip back to Port-au-Prince.

As two Coast Guard vessels carrying the disappointed refugees left Miami,
protesters said it wasn't fair to bar the 411 people - 393 Haitians, 16
Dominicans, two Chinese - from the United States. "Every time Haitians come
here, they send them back. Why?" asked one woman. "The Haitians have rights like
everybody else."

No, they don't. The Haitians don't have rights like Cubans. And the Haitians
don't have rights like American citizens.

Cubans who make it to U.S. soil get to stay. No other foreigners enjoy that
privilege. Fidel Castro's Communist regime is the reason for the policy
difference, but even that isn't consistent. Chinese nationals who make it ashore
are deported unless they can make a case for asylum.

It would be consistent to treat Haitians with the compassion shown Elian, but
compassion makes a poor cornerstone for immigration policy. Elian would be
better off here, say those who would prevent the boy's return to his father in
Cuba. So would those 29 children rebuffed Monday. So would their parents.
America can't afford blanket economic compassion. We will send people back to
poverty; we will not send people back to danger, at least in theory.

Today, Cuban refugees can make a better case than Haitians for political asylum.
Haiti's political chaos, however deplorable, is not equivalent to past
Duvalierist terror. The disparity in treatment did not always have such a
convenient rationalization. Until recently, Haitians were sent back to prison or
death when all Cubans were welcomed. The gap in treatment has closed - Cubans
intercepted at sea are returned, and U.S. intervention gave Haitians a framework
for democracy - but vestiges of racism and political favoritism remain.

A rational immigration policy would have compassion for political refugees and
treat all foreign nationals the same. The lingering irrationality of U.S.
immigration policy is the direct result of an irrational foreign policy toward
Cuba. Our embargo creates economic refugees without changing the conditions that
create political refugees. Those who think we can fix immigration policy without
first fixing foreign policy are taking an extended trip to fantasyland.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              284 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 6, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

A RULING FOR A FATHER, NOT POLITICAL PROTESTERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 384 words


Fidel Castro has said he will let Elian Gonzalez's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
come here to bring the boy home. Americans would feel better if Mr. Gonzalez did
come, unescorted by Cuban agents.

That would help disprove charges that Castro intimidated Mr. Gonzalez, though
only an appearance here by the entire Gonzalez family could rule out fear of
retribution. Writers of "based on a true story" scripts, along with the White
House and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, would love the final scene
to be Juan, Elian and extended family embracing as jubilant crowds welcome them
permanently to Miami. The real-life scene is of angry Cuban exiles jamming Miami
streets to protest Wednesday's INS ruling that Elian "belongs with his father."

How those protesters and other Americans feel, however, is not the issue and
shouldn't be. U.S. parents should not lose rights to children who cross
international borders, and neither should Cuban parents.

This case will create a swarm of legal arguments, but there are two basic
issues: Will Castro persecute Elian if the boy goes back? Is Mr. Gonzalez a fit
father?

The possibility of persecution is crucial to Elian's application for political
asylum, which his Miami relatives filed. Far from persecution, though, Elian
probably can expect preferential treatment. The claim that here he is free and
has better economic prospects is beside the point. No one can weigh those
benefits against the love and presence of his father.

Will Elian have that love? The Miami relatives want Mr. Gonzalez to prove his
fitness in a state court, where exile political power would have more influence
than the federal court that will handle immigration questions. But the INS says
it has seen proof that "Mr. Gonzalez has had a close and continuous personal
relationship with his son." Given the circumstances, the great-uncle with whom
Elian lives, no matter how loving, cannot have a better claim than the boy's own
father.

The argument is compelling that Elian's return renders more tragic his mother's
death while bringing him here. But Elian's life, and the lives and rights of
other children and parents, now are the proper focus. Reuniting this child with
his father is the right decision. The only question is where that will happen.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              285 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 13, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION POLICY MAKES PERFECT SENSE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 90 words


The Post's Jan. 5 lead editorial, "Anchor refugee policy with updated rules," is
off base.

I agree with our nation's refugee policy, which limits the number of Haitian
immigrants and favors Cubans to a degree. Although the Haitians have had a
history of oppression, they are now governing themselves.

Cubans, on the other hand, have come to this country because they live under an
oppressive communist government. Their reason for leaving is not economic
deprivation, unlike the Haitians.

David Gianuzzi

Boynton Beach


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              286 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 7, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

MOVING UP;
CECILIA CAMPOVERDE

SECTION: INSIDE LOCAL BUSINESS, Pg. 14D

LENGTH: 452 words


Florida Atlantic University associate professor of social work

Recent Accomplishments: Campoverde was recently named one of the "Eckerd 100"
through the Eckerd Salute to Women program from a field of 2,900 candidates. The
award, given at a ceremony in Atlanta in October, included a $ 1,000 donation to
a nonprofit organization of the winner's choice. Campoverde's went to the Latin
American Immigrant and Refugee Organization, one of five groups she was
instrumental in starting. (The others are the Guatemalan Center; the Guatemalan
Maya Quetzal Organization, which works with low-income Hispanics; Reaching
Potentials and Renaissance School, which trains children with autism; and the
Migrant, Autism and Social Work Student Fund, which assists students in need.)

"I really appreciate when someone puts value in what I do," she said of the
award. "I just wish people would remember that everybody needs to be recognized
- your partner, husband, child."

Born in Ecuador, she came to the United States in 1956. She wanted to become a
lawyer but couldn't afford to go to law school.

She came to FAU in 1989 from Buffalo State College, where she was director of
research and evaluation for the largest welfare training program in the state.
At FAU, she teaches policy, the historical development of social welfare,
immigration issues and persons with disabilities..

Among her many projectsis helping people in Guatemala to establish financial
independence by giving them small loans to begin a business such as pig farming.
The goal is to get them on their feet financially so they don't have to leave
their country.

Campoverde alsogets help from immigrants. Money for the loans comes from
donations of used household goods that are repaired by immigrants and then sold.
Campoverde is currently looking for a storage space for the donated goods.

Education: A master's in education from Hofstra University in New York and a
master's in social work from Adelphi University; a doctorate in research and
evaluation from Hofstra University.

Age: 63

Personal: Divorced. One son, Glen, 40. Campoverde has one deceased daughter,
Verna. Also two grandchildren - Ryan, 8, and Carter, 1.

Hobbies: Chatting with people, reading literature and listening to all kinds of
music.

Career Highlight: "To have been given the opportunity to learn from the humblest
of people - immigrants, and to be given the opportunity to work with them to
improve the conditions of their lives, even a little bit. If I have contributed,
I feel very pleased."

Quote: "In humbleness, we must learn to share with people and to appreciate what
they give us so we can give them twice as much."

- Mary Thurwachter


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer, Cecilia Campoverde has made a
name for herself in social work education. She was recently named one of the
'Eckerd 100.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              287 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 18, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION POLICY HAS MADE AMERICA'S FABRIC EVEN STRONGER

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 218 words


In the Jan. 24 letter "Immigration policy a ticking time bomb," the writer
claims "Unrestrained population growth will lead to environmental degradation
and urban congestion." This is a common misconception.

Since 1900, the population of the United States, barely restrained, has more
than doubled. So has the standard of living. By many measures, the environment
has improved in the past 50 years - more trees, cleaner water, purer air.

One has only to fly from the East Coast to the West Coast or drive Interstate 95
to New York to see vast stretches of empty land. Does the writer have any idea
of the living conditions on the Lower East Side of New York 100 years ago, when
there were far fewer people?

Some see an additional human being as a mouth that consumes. I see that person
as a producer with a brain and two hands. A free people produce more than they
consume. Right now, the U.S. could feed the world.

When some of my ancestors wanted to escape famine and persecution, they were
welcomed to this country. Now that we are safe and comfortable, will we close
our door to Cuban and Haitian refugees? Emma Lazarus' words on the Statue of
Liberty say it best: "Send these the homeless, tempest-tossed to me. I lift my
lamp beside the golden door."

Peter Reilly

West Palm Beach


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              288 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 1, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

GROUP OF HAITIAN IMMIGRANTS FOUND, ARRESTED ON NORTH END OF PALM BEACH

BYLINE: A. Scharnhorst, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


Eighteen Haitian immigrants were discovered walking down a Palm Beach street
Tuesday morning, seemingly none the worse for their journey from the Bahamas,
officials said.

Five women and 13 men, all adults, were arrested by Palm Beach police and U.S.
Border Patrol agents shortly before 8 a.m. in the 1400 block of Reef Road,
officials said. They were later taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami.

The immigrants were dropped on the north end of the island, said Border Patrol
Agent Mike Flanagan. They were clean, dry and healthy when they were found,
officials said.

"Neither their feet nor their clothing was wet," said Palm Beach police
spokeswoman Janet Kinsella.

The U.S. Coast Guard searched for the boat that brought the men and women from
the Bahamas, but did not find it, Flanagan said. It's possible the refugees were
dropped on the island in the middle of the night.

"They're not being all that cooperative, so we don't know," Flanagan said.

* a_scharnhorst@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run South.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              289 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 30, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

MIAMI FIGHTS FEDS ON ELIAN;
6-YEAR-OLD GETS 24-HOUR REPRIEVE ON STATUS

BYLINE: Bill Douthat and Mike Williams, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 805 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


In an extraordinary display of organized resistance, local political leaders
said Wednesday they would hold the federal government responsible if rioting
erupts over efforts to send young Elian Gonzalez back to Cuba.

"I'm putting the federal government on notice that they are provoking this
community," said Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas. "If blood is shed, I will
hold them responsible."

As Elian's Miami relatives met late into the night with the INS, Cuban President
Fidel Castro suddenly raised the stakes. In a televised speech, Castro announced
that Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, is ready to fly to Florida
immediately to be with his son while his Miami relatives continue their legal
battle to keep Elian here.

"The passports are ready," Castro said. "And of course the airplane is ready."

INS had threatened to revoke Elian's parole at 9 a.m. today if his Miami
relatives continued to refuse to agree to give up the boy if they lose a court
fight to keep him here.

But at 9:20 p.m., after a long meeting with Elian's Miami great-uncle, Lazaro
Gonzalez, INS officials said they would delay revoking Elian's immigration
status for another 24 hours. They said they would meet with Lazaro Gonzalez
again today.

Elian was allowed into the United States on a temporary basis after he was
rescued from a floating inner tube off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving Day.
His mother died during the trip from Cuba.

Penelas was joined Wednesday by 21 other mayors who pledged that they would not
assist federal immigration officials in removing the 6-year-old Cuban boy from
Miami. Florida Gov. Jeb Bush made a similar vow in a letter to President Clinton
and Attorney General Janet Reno.

Miami Mayor Joe Carollo accused the federal government of taking steps to
"snatch" Elian before appeals are exhausted. Carollo said he learned that
federal officials were scouting a mostly abandoned Homestead Air Force Base
south of Miami as a possible location for a forced rendezvous between Elian and
his father, who lives in Cuba and says he wants his son back.

A visa for the father to make a quick trip to Florida already has been approved
by the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, Carollo said.

Kent Cummings, a spokesman for an Air Force Reserve squadron at the Homestead
base, said the base has not been asked to help remove Elian. Carollo said he
considers his information valid since no federal officials called his office to
refute the allegations.

Castro said Juan Miguel Gonzalez would go with a large group of people,
including his wife; his 6-month-old child, who is Elian's half-brother; Elian's
first-grade teacher; a dozen of his classmates; and a host of Cuban
psychologists and psychiatrists.

The Juan Miguel Gonzalez' family and the rest of the children would stay at the
home of the chief of the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, Castro said.

As players moved their chess pieces on both sides of the Florida Straits,
demonstrators again took to the streets in Miami. Late in the day, a convoy of
dump trucks chugged down the narrow streets of Elian's central Miami
neighborhood, horns bleating to the cheers of protesters. The drivers vowed to
block all the streets leading to the home.

There was also a large demonstration on Southwest Eighth Street, the heart of
the local Cuban exile community. And more than a hundred protesters milled
outside Elian's home, chanting, praying and vowing to form a "human chain" to
stop federal officials from taking the boy away.

Commentators on exile radio stations urged people to flood the streets to send a
message to the White House.

Penelas said he was powerless to stop civil disobedience and violence if the
federal government continues to talk about removing Elian by force.

"I'm the person who measures the temperature, emotions and passions of this
dynamic community," Penelas said after a news conference of 22 mayors in front
of the federal courthouse. "And I'm telling them that it's getting out of
control."

President Clinton responded to the comments at a Washington news conference by
saying, "I like the mayor very much but I believe in the rule of law."

Although mayors said they would not help remove Elian, police officials said
they were available to control crowds and protect property and lives.

"Obviously, if there is disorder in the streets, it's our sworn duty to deal
with it," said Miami Police Chief Bill O'Brien.

Even Congress weighed in on the debate Wednesday. Two conservative Republican
senators - Connie Mack of Florida and Bob Smith of New Hampshire - introduced
legislation to grant permanent resident status to Elian, his father and other
relatives who remain on the island. Strategists said the measure lacks
sufficient support for passage.

* bill_douthat@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3 C & B&W, 1. (C) Fidel castro (mug), 2. (C) CHUCK FADELY/The
Miami Herald, Miami-Dade Mayor Alex Penelas (at podium) says local authorities
will not help the federal government if it tries to take Elian., 3. (C) GREG
LOVETT/Staff Photographer, Elian Gonzalez plays on a swing at the Miami home of
Lazaro Gonzales, his great-uncle., 4. (B&W) LUIS ALVAREZ/Staff Photographer,
Thousands of Cuban residents in Miami turned out in support of Elian Gonzalez
late Wednesday with a flashlight vigil in the Little Havana section of Miami.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              290 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 6, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

COLOMBIA'S OTHER IMPORT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 439 words


The State Department is not going to get Colombia's tourism account.

"Violence by narcotraffickers, paramilitary groups, guerrilla and terrorist
organizations, and other criminal elements is widespread and increasing," the
department warns in a bulletin telling United States citizens not to travel
there. "There is a greater risk of being kidnapped in Colombia than in any
country in the world." And, "The U.S. government's ability to assist kidnapped
U.S. citizens is limited." Other problems? "Domestic airline hijackings and
murders."

If Americans aren't rushing to Colombia, there is a rush going the other way.
The New York Times reports that 366,423 Colombians applied for non-immigrant
visas last year, more than double the number in 1997. About 275,000 were
approved, as were about 5,700 of 11,345 applications for immigrant visas.

Miami and New York are the most common destinations. Given the violence in
Colombia, many who come will remain illegally after their visas expire.

If there is no rush of tourists, there may be a rush of U.S. dollars, equipment
and personnel. Colombia supplies most of America's cocaine and heroin. To fight
that trade, the Clinton administration wants Congress to approve emergency aid
to the government of President Andres Pastrana. The House approved $ 1.6 billion
last week, but Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott has blocked the aid. He says he
supports it, as well as $ 2 billion for U.S. troops in Kosovo and $ 2 billion
for North Carolina farmers hit by Floyd. But Sen. Lott claims the total $ 13
billion package contains too many pet projects piggybacking on the emergency
appropriations.

Rather than delay, Congress should strip out the pork and move to the more
serious issues of such massive military aid. Such as:

President Pastrana could lose control of a beefed-up military to a repressive
dictator or to rebels who already control significant parts of Colombia. Even if
Mr. Pastrana stays in charge, military aid might "leak" to the paramilitaries
who have been accused of acting as the army's unofficial allies in attacks that
have killed civilians. Some even fear that the unprecedented aid will add
significantly to the roughly 200 American military personnel in Colombia,
shoving the U.S. down a Vietnam-like slippery slope.

One more discouraging wrinkle: The colonel once in charge of U.S. troops in
Colombia has just admitted helping his wife launder drug money.

Sen. Lott wants to wait. Drug traffickers and refugees aren't waiting. The
policy questions are difficult and risky, but the emergency is real, and
Congress needs to find answers now.


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              291 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 5, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN-BORN STUDENTS CAN MAKE THE GRADE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 412 words


Among the many misconceptions immigrants endure is that their children drag down
performance in the public schools. The reasoning is that most new arrivals have
too much trouble learning English and face too many cultural adjustments to
compete in the classroom.

But research continues to indicate otherwise. A study of about 4,000 Palm Beach
County students whose first language isn't English has concluded that immigrants
did as well as native speakers after being in the school system for a few years.
Dean Stecker, a planner in the school district's English for Speakers of Other
Languages department, compared state test scores of students who had been out of
ESOL for two years or more and discovered no significant difference with their
U.S.-born peers.

The study, which tracked the county's bilingual fourth-, eighth- and
10th-graders, also found that elementary students here did better on average
than elsewhere in the state. More analysis of state standardized testing later
this year might explain why.

Two conclusions arise from the study results already in: The school district's
ESOL program is doing its job well; and immigrants are just as capable of
succeeding as their native-born peers. In fact, ESOL students who complete the
program actually might come out of it with an advantage. Mr. Stecker's survey,
and many others, suggest that being bilingual has a cognitive payoff beyond
communication itself. People learn to think two different ways. Speaking in two
tongues turns out to be good for the brain, something native English speakers
unwilling to learn other languages might wish to consider.

In 1998, Michigan State University sociologists completed a multiyear survey of
immigrant schoolchildren in Miami-Dade and Broward counties and San Diego. Among
the findings were that new arrivals overwhelmingly preferred English to their
parents' native languages, generally made better grades than other American
children and had steeply lower dropout rates. Some experts had feared that the
current high levels of immigration inevitably would lead to a multiethnic
underclass, detached from the mainstream by academic failures. Research,
however, indicates just the opposite.

"We are still a country of immigrants," Mr. Stecker said, "and those who come
here seeking a better life still know what they have to do to be successful."
The ESOL study offers encouragement that in Palm Beach County, immigration will
lead to assimilation.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              292 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 7, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

MANY EXPECT NEW INFLUX OF REFUGEES

BYLINE: Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 577 words


Fears of a new wave of Haitian immigrants are rising because of a sharp upturn
in refugee landings in South Florida.

In March and April, 127 Haitians were caught coming ashore, compared to 36 in
the same period last year. And the number of refugees turned back at sea is
running at a five-year high.

"It does have people a little concerned, although we haven't heard about any
mass influx," said Art Bullock, head of the U.S. Border Patrol office in Riviera
Beach.

Social service agencies say they are seeing more Haitians at their doorsteps
because of economic and political turmoil in Haiti.

"We can expect a tremendous influx in the next three to four months," said
Daniella Henry, executive director of the Haitian American Community Council in
Delray Beach.

"We are just swamped here," she said.

New arrivals show up every day at the Haitian Center for Family Services in West
Palm Beach, said executive director Robert Arrieux.

"They are leaving Haiti because of unemployment, devaluation of the currency,"
he said. "The upcoming elections will mean more killing and people dying."

A dozen people have been killed in recent weeks in political slaying related to
the long-postponed legislative elections now scheduled for May 21.

The Border Patrol has arrested 94 Haitians entering Palm Beach and Martin
counties since Jan. 1, but many more probably slip in undetected, officials say.

Bullock said smugglers are using global-positioning satellite systems, cellular
phones and well-planned beach landings to bring in groups of 20 or more.

When a group landed in Delray Beach in November, a flatbed truck was waiting to
pick them up.

"About 13 or 14 in the group were whisked away before we could get on the
scene," Bullock said.

Most Haitians land in Palm Beach County because it's just 60 miles due west of
Grand Bahama Island, a staging area for smugglers.

The number of immigrants this year is not alarming, said Joe Mellia, a Border
Patrol spokesman for its regional office in Pembroke Pines.

The 51 Haitians arrested last month on South Florida shores is not a huge
number, he said.

"If we were seeing 200 or 300 a month, then we could say something is happening
here," Mellia said.

Bigger numbers are coming from the U.S. Coast Guard, which has stopped nearly
700 Haitians on their way to the United States - all from two boats.

A boat that ran aground near Miami in January carried about 400 Haitians.
Another boat deposited about 300 Haitians on Flamingo Cay in the southern
Bahamas last month.

The refugees often depart Haiti in larger boats and wait in the Bahamas,
sometimes for months, to arrange for smaller boats to carry them to the Florida
coastline.

bill_douthat@pbpost.com

Haitian wave

Authorities expect more Haitian refugees will try to reach South Florida shores
in the next few months because of election-related violence and continuing
economic woes in Haiti. Already the arrests of undocumented Haitians in South
Florida are up to 186 from last year's 147:

    January     1999 - 65
               2000 - 21
   February    1999 - 46
               2000 - 38
   March       1999 - 36
               2000 - 76
   April       1999 -  0
               2000 - 51

2000 breakdown: Palm Beach County 91, Broward 67,

Miami-Dade 25, Martin 2, Monroe 1.

Source: U.S. Border Patrol


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run Early.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (B&W, BRENNAN KING/Staff Artist, Haitian wave

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              293 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                May 11, 2000, Thursday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

IMMIGRATION ADVOCATES HOPE CONGRESS EXTENDS DEADLINE;
AREA HAITIANS HURRIED TO FILE FOR RESIDENCY

BYLINE: Molly Hennessy-Fiske, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


As recent political turmoil drove refugees to Treasure Coast shores, staffers in
a tiny law office on Second Street were still trying to keep pace with an
earlier Haitian influx.

Just when it seemed that months spent translating statements and gathering
paperwork for hundreds of clients had ended with the Haitian Refugee Immigration
Fairness Act's April 1 deadline, more applicants arrived.

As advocates rally in Washington, D.C., today in support of an extended
deadline, Sister Catherine Cassidy, who founded the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center office here four years ago, hopes the new congressional initiatives will
allow more local immigrants to benefit.

"The night before we were doing affidavits of indigency until we had to throw
people out at 4:30 to get them to the post office on time," Cassidy recalled of
preparing for the deadline. About 50,000 refugees were eligible to file
nationwide, about 70 percent of them in Florida.

Although the act - which grants residency to Haitians living in this country for
more than five years - passed in December 1998, it was not until a year later
that the government issued official regulations for those who wished to file.

When the advocacy center held crowded meetings at Haitian churches after the
regulations were issued that June, Cassidy recalled how prospective applicants
snapped up checklists of requirements that included a $ 220 filing fee ($ 160
for children), a medical exam by a doctor certified by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Haitian birth certificate and proof of continuous U.S.
residency.

Cassidy said several hundred local residents chose to file for free with her and
attorney Anne Ketover Watkins at the center. She said a private attorney could
charge up to $ 8,000. Either way, it often took applicants weeks to file,
usually because of difficulty obtaining paperwork from the Haitian government.
Many fled Haiti in the political turmoil that followed a military coup in 1992,
taking only essentials.

Birth certificates could cost $ 100 or more, and relatives sent to pick up the
papers in Port-Au-Prince might not receive certified copies. With the expense,
some families couldn't file for older or disabled relatives, she said.

Cerly and Enia Ceant both filed on time, but said some relatives could not
afford to. It took them eight months to gather the necessary paperwork and
applying cost the couple - who just moved into their first home in Port St.
Lucie with 18 month-old son Austensen - about $ 900 each.

It was a week before the April 1 deadline when INS officials changed the
regulations to allow more poor applicants to file without paying a fee. Those
filing also only had to show proof they sent away for a birth certificate or
signed up for a medical exam.

"It was good that they changed it but it was just so late . . . people had to
make tough choices," said Ketover Watkins.

By the time the regulations changed, Ketover Watkins had left FIAC for private
practice, and Cassidy was inundated with applicants who kept arriving after the
deadline.

"It was a short window for the Haitians to apply," Cassidy said.

Some members of Congress agree. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., the original sponsor of
the act, recently introduced another bill (S 2058) with support from Sen. Connie
Mack, R-Fla., that would extend the deadline until March. In the House, Rep.
Christopher Smith, R-N.J. submitted a bill co-sponsored by Florida Reps. Carrie
Meek and Alcee Hastings that extends the deadline by 18 months and grants
residency to Haitians who entered the country without proper documentation.

A Senate vote could be held soon if key provisions of Graham's bill are added to
legislation set for consideration in coming weeks. Dubbed H-1B after the federal
program designed to grant visas to workers in high-tech industries, the bill (S
2045) is designed to make it easier for immigrants to qualify for residency.
Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., is currently drafting an amendment to H-1B to
incorporate an extension of the Haitian refugee act's deadline.

But as supporters prepare for a rally today outside the Capitol sponsored by the
Miami-based Haitian Grassroots Coalition, it's not clear which bill Kennedy will
incorporate into his amendment.

Michael Ray, president of the Florida chapter of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, said even a scaled-back version of Graham's bill will
signal major political gains by his Haitian clients.

"A year or two years ago people laughed at us that we might get a bill passed
for Haitians," said Ray. "But we did, and a lot of the congresspeople will be

molly_hennessy_fiske@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer, Cerly (left) and Enia
Ceant and their son Austensen filed papers before the April 1 deadline set by
the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act. The family is living in Port St.
Lucie.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              294 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                May 25, 2000, Thursday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

MEMORIES OF A BRUTAL PAST DRIVE HER TO HELP OTHERS

BYLINE: Molly Hennessy-Fiske, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Childhood, for Alicia Cabrera-Lopez, 24, never happened. At age 5 the Guatemalan
refugee, who now helps other refugees file for residency, saw her house burned
to the ground and heard about her uncle being shot by police shortly before the
family fled to the United States.

"He was shot, and then after my relatives' house was raided, they told my
mother, 'Next time it's all of you,' " she said.

Cabrera-Lopez plans to return with her parents to Guatemala in August for the
first time. She said her work with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center got her
thinking of the mountain village.

"Coming here made me more sensitive, forced me to remember what it feels like"
to be a refugee, she said.

Her family arrived in Arizona in 1984 without a destination or contacts, five
small children and two adults who spoke little English and changed their name
from Cabrera-Lopez to Ixcot in an effort to blend with Mexican immigrants. A
chance encounter with a nun at the border landed them in a religious house of
refuge in Weston, Vt.

The Benedictine monastery became the family's permanent home. Elena and Felipe
Ixcot still work there today, listening to Benedictine chants while they
preserve Mayan culture destroyed by years of political warfare.

"In English, not in Latin," Cabrera-Lopez said, adding that she would
"sometimes" join in the monastic recitals.

"I see them more like an extended family," she said of the monks.

The same was true of her small private school, although she chafed at her
cultural difference. Other students had fathers who were dentists or lawyers.
She came home to parents who, at the height of the image-conscious 1980s,
continued to wear the same clothes they wore in Quezaltenango.

"I used to be embarrassed when she would come to parent-teacher conferences in
her Mayan clothes," Cabrera-Lopez said of her mother.

But after attending Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Mass., for a few
years, her opinion began to change. Here was the Latin American history she
missed as a child, the stories of scorched-earth campaigns that left Mayan
villages in ruins.

After graduating, Cabrera-Lopez began a year of paid volunteer work this fall at
the advocacy center on North Second Street in Fort Pierce with Sister Catherine
Cassidy, a nun and attorney who handles cases from residency applications to
domestic abuse. Cassidy's order, the Sisters of the Humility of Mary, paid
Cabrera-Lopez a stipend and arranged for her to have a car for weekly trips to
Indiantown, where she also volunteered to work with Guatemalan students at Hope
Rural School.

"These kids, when I tell them about my parents, they say, 'Oh yeah, my parents
mentioned that,' " she said, "I want to encourage more parents to tell their
children about what happened because we can learn English, but there's still
that Mayan culture underneath. Especially for those of use who came in the late
'70s and early '80s. There's a reason we came here."

Cassidy, who has hosted about seven volunteers since her office opened four
years ago, said that although the legal assistant's job centers on research and
interviews, she benefits from the agency's reputation.

"One of the great advantages is our office, we've been around some time, so
we're trusted," she said, adding that she hopes Cabrera-Lopez will take away a
"sensitivity to the poor, to immigrants of all nationalities" when she leaves.

After her trip to Guatemala, Cabrera-Lopez will work at the advocacy center
while applying to law schools next fall.

She called the trip "more nerve-wracking than going to the dentist," but said it
is just as necessary to her health. There she hopes to see the charred home
site, and her uncle's grave.

"I plan to visit all the places I didn't want to see or think about," she said,
"Now I think is the best time."

molly_hennessy_fiske@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C, PAUL J. MILETTE/Staff Photographer, Alicia Cabrera-Lopez
works with refugees at the Fort Pierce office of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              295 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 4, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

FOR MANY HAITIAN IMMIGRANTS,;
DANIELLA HENRY IS A ONE-WOMAN EMBASSY

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2597 words


The old house is rickety, and the air-conditioning flies out as the people and
their many, many problems fly in. Sweaty from bus rides, worn out from walking,
they clutch big white envelopes and small pink wallets, legal papers and light
bills, school reports and pay stubs, birth records and immigration applications
- the stuff of their new life in America, little packets of hope.

Here is a man in a starched white shirt who wants to bring his children to the
U.S. but does not know how. Here is a young mother with a toddler on her knee
and - she hopes - a green card in the mail. Here is a wrinkled grandmother who
works in the fields and cares for her young granddaughter, who does not, by the
way, have papers, and so, the grandmother asks, wiping her brow, "Will she be
taken away?"

And here, in the middle of the bedlam, in this house on a shady street in Delray
Beach, is one woman, Daniella Henry, model-tall, no jewelry on busy days, a pack
of crackers on her desk, maybe a half-eaten salad. Her pink calendar spills over
with hastily scrawled numbers, for Washington bureaucrats, for Nebraska
immigration workers, for the American embassy in Haiti. This is how you move
mountains, she says. You call people. You ask favors. You hang up and three
minutes later, you call them again.

This is how she won residency for a dying Haitian woman, Marie Mercius, who, a
couple of weeks ago, in a Boynton Beach hospital room, was reunited with her
three sons for the first time in seven years.

This is how she helped Sophonie Telcy, a 6-year-old Haitian orphan, living in
the shadows in tiny Lake Park, become the centerpiece of a U.S. congressional
bill.

Henry, 41, statuesque, magnetic, a former department store model who wears her
tropical clothes like a queen, directs traffic with her fingertips.

The phone screams. An assistant rushes in, then out. Four people jockey in the
doorway and beg, "Daniella, Daniella, oh Daniella, please Daniella, can you see
me now?" And she says no, but then she does.

"Hello? Alo!" she shouts into the phone, blending English with rat-a-tat-tat
Creole that sizzles like fat in a skillet. "What? A traffic accident? Lake
Worth? Yes, yes, I understand, but what can I do about that? I cannot stop
people from having accidents."

This is news to the caller, who is certain Henry, the executive director of the
Haitian American Community Council, and as such one of the most prominent
leaders in the Haitian immigrant community, can do anything.

"Oh, my God, my head," Henry says, pressing a finger to her chest as if to
pierce her heart. "These people, do you see how they depend on me?"

News of Marie Mercius' plight swept the Creole airwaves and was taken up eagerly
by the informal front-porch councils that dot the county's Little Haiti
neighborhoods.

It is a fact of immigrant life that you do not so much as whisper trouble
without half the neighborhood rushing to your bedside, and so it happened that
Mercius, suffering from liver cancer and given just a short time to live, had
100 well-wishers lined up outside her hospital room as she gripped her stomach
and held on mightily until her three sons could arrive on a plane from Haiti.

It was Henry who got the boys here, of course. This was not a simple matter.
There were immigration officials to persuade, bureaucrats to chat up, documents
to express, embassy workers to brief, doctors to consult.

On the Monday morning in May that the immigration gods blessed Marie Mercius
with permanent residency and the decision that her sons could come to America,
Henry took a call from Washington.

"Oh, my God, it's true!" she said as she plunked down the receiver, a teardrop
splashing her yellow blouse. "Ten years I am working for this community, and
this is the first thing I do that I feel good about."

The first thing?

"Well, OK, there are others. But this is a dying woman. And we are - at the very
last minute - able to reunite her with her children.

"You do not get many chances like this."

No, you don't.

There are perhaps 50,000 Haitian immigrants living in Palm Beach County; it is
impossible to know for sure, for some live secretly, venturing out to jobs and
schools - and to Henry's office - but otherwise undocumented. In Delray Beach,
where the council makes its home by the railroad tracks, two blocks south of
prosperous Atlantic Avenue, there are about 15,000. And it is near impossible to
find one who does not know about Henry - some of them step off the boat with her
phone number tucked in their pocket.

The council got its start in 1992, when Henry and community activist Carolyn
Zimmerman cranked it up to help thousands of refugees escaping island strife.
These days, the agency has $ 660,000 in grants, three offices, a bunch of
caseworkers; it provides a variety of services from translations to family
counseling and housing for people with AIDS. Back then, it was a shoestring
operation, surviving on garage sales and the nickels and dimes the Haitians
themselves donated.

"I went around raising money," Zimmerman says, "and Daniella for two years
didn't get a salary. She had to go on public assistance."

There were plenty of unexpected assignments.

Zimmerman:

"Let me tell you a story. Some years ago, AIDS came to Delray. It came to all of
America. But we couldn't get anybody to talk about it, it was such a stigma. You
were shunned if you had AIDS. We knew this man who had worked in construction, a
good job, and he was Haitian, and he got it. He was staying with this family,
and they threw him out. What they did was, they just took him up I-95, and they
dumped him out.

"Well, it's just a coincidence that Daniella was going up to visit him at the
family's house, and of course when she got there, he wasn't there. So she called
me and I went over to where he had been staying, and we forced the people into
telling us what had happened: That he had AIDS, and so they took him to 95 and
dumped him. It was night, and we went up and they told us exactly which exit
they put him out on.

"So we drove around and parked and we walked and walked. He was over on the side
of the road, just sitting there. We put him in the car and drove him to the
hospital, and he stayed there until he died. And this was a man who had
insurance money. Before he died, he made us promise we would buy a truck and
take it to Haiti and give it to his brother. So we bought a truck and filled it
with food and clothes, and we shipped it to Haiti. And then we flew over and met
the brother and gave him the truck.

"So, you know, this is the kind of stuff we were doing."

It should be said that Henry - who works six days a week and earns $ 38,000, and
whose outspokenness has earned her a few enemies, including her estranged second
husband - did not come to the council job with a flawless resume.

She had been spectacularly fired from her last position, as director of the
Haitian American Chamber of Commerce in Delray Beach.

The circumstances of her sudden dismissal vary greatly in the telling, depending
upon the source. Joseph Pierre-Paul Cadet, the chairman of the now-defunct
chamber, says Henry was terminated for insubordination, the details of which he
cannot remember eight years later.

"She thought she could do whatever she wanted with that chamber," he says. "That
is why we decided to terminate her. She acted like she owned the thing."

Henry, on the other hand, says she and Cadet could not reconcile their vastly
different management philosophies: "He wanted to run the chamber in his style,
and I wanted to play by the rules, so we didn't get along."

This much is certain: It was a mess.

And this, too: Henry survived it.

"There was a major blow-up," says condo activist Andre Fladell, who was on the
chamber's board at the time. "All I know is, when the smoke cleared, everybody
was on the floor except Daniella. She's got this real Joan of Arc thing going."

And now, adds Fladell, a keen supporter, "She's the blood and guts of that
council. She's very charming, very sweet, very relentless. Important people come
to see her. Bill Nelson. Jeb Bush. She never stops coming at you until she gets
what she wants."

Which is?

"To help the little guy."

The other day, in her small, white office, Henry tried to persuade a new
acquaintance to devote more of her time to helping Haitian immigrants.

The woman, for personal reasons, resisted.

"Oh, no, Daniella, do not give me a sermon," she said, fanning herself with a
fluttery hand. "I am not in church, you know."

Henry repositioned the papers on her desk. She looked up, then down, then up.
For a moment it seemed she might be brushing away a tear, but it was hard to
tell.

"Ah, but you must help," she finally said. "And believe me, when you help, it
will be your blessing."

On the Sunday before Memorial Day, Daniella Henry, the former model, throws on
clothes that do not match, jumps into her silver Toyota 4-Runner and zips up the
road to co-host her weekend radio show at WPBR-AM in Lake Worth.

It is impossible not to notice, on this early sunlit morning, the color of her
suburban Delray Beach home: raspberry pink.

"Ah, yes," she confides, backing out the drive. "My neighbors didn't like it.
They said, 'What's going on here? We're going color blind!'

"But I said, 'I'm Caribbean! I like joyful colors! I do not want to live in a
tomb!'

"That color is me."

So is this:

When she was 6, a little girl in Haiti, her mother left to find work in the
Bahamas. Daniella, precocious and looking forward to school, moved in with an
aunt. But there was trouble.

"For some reason, she was jealous of me, and instead of allowing me to go to
school, she made me sit in church. I am not kidding! I spent three years there.
My mother thought I was in school, because everybody would see me leaving the
house in my school uniform. When she found out the truth, she went ballistic and
sent me off to boarding school in Port-au-Prince."

There she stayed, until 1975, when she and her brother, William, moved to the
States to join her mother, who had come here for a restaurant job.

"We lived in Miami, 54th Street, Little Haiti, only it was so much different
then. There were not too many Haitians, only about 10 families. I went to
Catholic school, all girls. Not knowing English was my biggest nightmare. When
they spoke over the loudspeaker, I understood nothing. Everybody would leave the
room, and I would still be sitting there."

But she learned. She graduated. She attended community college. She tried
modeling, then moved to Washington, where she earned a degree in business
administration. She had a son, Sammy. Her first marriage broke up. She moved to
New York, took a banking job, hated it. Her sister says she was always intent on
finding a career that would put her in the public eye, where she could use her
influence to help people. It just took her a while to figure out how.

She tried the social services, counseled dropouts. Once she held a fashion show
for children who didn't have much, and she paid for it out of her own pocket.
She warned people against drugs and teen pregnancy, helped adults learn to read.
She even taught ex-cons who thought it was funny to draw a big refugee boat on
the blackboard.

And then, somebody asked her, "Why are you doing all this? Why don't you come to
Florida and help your own people?"

So here she is, Sunday morning, worn white sandals clicking up the stairs to the
studio.

It is 7:59. The show starts at 8. So, you know, no problem.

"Alo! Bonjou!" she says, sliding on her headset.

The WPBR format is free-wheeling, a little culture, a little education, a little
news, a little shouting, a little laughter.

True, some think Henry is too outspoken, too forward with her ideas. Not long
ago, because the topic was in the news, she allowed on the air that Haitian
parents sometimes beat their children, for discipline. Oooh. Not everybody liked
that.

"What!" she says, when she hears of the objections. "I grew up in a system where
you are supposed to tell the truth! Come on, I had some beatings, too! If you
hide some things, you cannot be helped."

Her fans are with her, though.

On this morning, Henry Smith calls in. He is the caretaker for Sophonie Telcy,
the little Haitian girl orphaned in Lake Park after her mother died. In the
middle of the Elian Gonzalez crisis, U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, set
out to find a Haitian child, who, like Elian, was motherless and undocumented in
America. He called Henry, who, via the Creole airwaves, called upon the Haitian
people.

The next thing Smith knew, his young charge was the subject of U.S. House
Resolution 4179, "for the relief of Sophonie Telcy," which seeks to grant her
permanent residency. If the bill doesn't work, luck and lawyers probably will.

"Thank you! Thank you!" Smith tells Daniella Henry. "Thank you so much for what
you did for Sophonie."

Other callers are equally enthusiastic.

"You should be president of Haiti!" they shout. "You should be Mrs. Aristide!"

When Mrs. Aristide gets home to her raspberry house, she is greeted by her
mother, Germaine Filsaime, who is several feet shorter than she.

"Every day, I pray for Daniella," she says. "That she should have strength for
all of this."

On a sweltering morning when clients trudge to the rickety house in wide-brimmed
hats, a mussy-haired woman flies in the door, corners the receptionist and
shouts about her light bill for 60 seconds. Then she flies out.

The event is notable only because absolutely nobody looks up. This is, after
all, an all-purpose service center. There is always a crisis.

The latest crisis: money.

Just the other day, Henry heard the county might not give the council a grant
next year. Usually, the county pitches in $ 103,000. Henry was hoping for $
200,000. After all, she figured, her agency serves thousands of people.

They come from South County. From North County. From Miami and Belle Glade. From
Paris.

"Yes, Paris. I'm not kidding you!

"They call me from France, say, 'May I see you on a Tuesday?' I say, 'I will be
here on a Tuesday.' Perhaps they are in Florida visiting family, and they come
here to sort out their legal affairs."

So, you know, considering all this, the prospect of a budget cut does not thrill
her.

On a Wednesday, she goes to a meeting. The county staffers say: We know you're
helping a lot of people, but your "data" is not in order. She says: We are
overwhelmed. Every day there are new refugees.

Outside, she stamps her sandal on the sidewalk.  "Do they want me to put a sign
on my door? NO MORE MONEY! SEE CITY HALL FOR YOUR PROBLEMS!

"No, I don't think they would like that. We are doing everything we can. We are
working around the clock, no break, no nothing."

And then, lecture over, Daniella Henry does what she always does - she goes back
to work. Back to the old house where her son Sammy, now 12, runs errands, where
the phone screams, where the assistant dashes in and out, where caseworkers
shake their heads over crumpled birth certificates, where people drop off gifts
for Marie Mercius, where old men clutch citizenship forms, where young mothers
wait expectantly for green cards, where grandmothers sweaty from field work cry
over their undocumented grandchildren.

In her doorway at dinnertime, a half-dozen faces look in expectantly. "Daniella,
oh Daniella, will you see me now?"

No, she says. It's too late.

But then she does anyway.

christine_evans@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run Early.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1 C & 3 B&W, 1. (C) DAVID SPENCER/Staff Photographer, Daniella
Henry, executive director of the Haitian American Community Council in Delray
Beach, sits with Pierre Sully while he waits for counseling at a clinic in
Delray Beach recently. Pierre and his brothers had come to the U.S. to see their
dying mother, Marie Mercius., 2. (B&W) DAVID SPENCER/Staff Photographer,
Daniella Henry helps Marie Mercius after Mercius collapsed upon seeing her
children for the first time in several years on May 20., 3. (B&W) BOB
SHANLEY/Staff Photographer, Daniella Henry talks with Leona Elie about an
immigration problem recently. Henry says the council works around the clock., 4.
(B&W) LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer, On the day they left Haiti for the
United States, Daniella Henry walks with Marie Mercius' sons. Reuniting the
family was special for Henry. 'You do not get many chances like this,' she said.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              296 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 15, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

DYING WOMAN'S 2 SONS GAIN GREEN CARDS; THIRD WAITS BECAUSE OF SPECIAL NEEDS

BYLINE: Noah Bierman, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 302 words


Two of the three Haitian boys granted special permission to enter Florida last
month to see their dying mother now have permanent residency. The third boy's
application was held up last week because he has a developmental disorder.

Jacques Sully, 18, and Yvelor Sully, 15, received their green cards Friday, said
Daniella Henry, director of the Haitian-American Community Council.

Pierre Sully, 11, went to see a psychiatrist in West Palm Beach Wednesday. The
psychiatrist certified that Pierre is not a threat to himself or others but
needs 24-hour supervision, Henry said.

Immigration and Naturalization Service official Michael Shaul did not anticipate
problems but has not seen the paperwork. It is unclear whether Pierre will need
a waiver.

Although Pierre will certainly require extensive social services if he stays in
the United States, that would not be grounds to reject his application.

Haitians who apply for residency under the 1998 Haitian Refuge Immigration
Fairness Act, as Pierre has done, are exempt from those rules which bar most
immigrants who need costly social services from staying here.

The boys' mother, Marie Mercius, 46, has been diagnosed with terminal liver
cancer.

Mercius fled Haiti seven years ago. Rock Sully, 13, her other son, has been
living with her for four years, but the others could not come here legally until
recently, when immigration officials bent their rules so the boys could see
their mother before she dies.

Since the boys arrived last month, Mercius was able to leave her bed in Bethesda
Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach and return home for a week. She reentered the
hospital earlier this month.

The boys are living with local relatives, who have promised to take care of them
as long as necessary.

noah_bierman@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              297 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    June 21, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 167 words


WEST PALM BEACH - Immigrants seeking to renew their 10-year green cards can file
applications at a customer service center near Belvedere Road and Australian
Avenue, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said. Applicants should
bring their expiring green cards, a completed Form I-90 and a $ 110 money order.
The center at 2501 Bristol Drive is open Tuesday through Saturday from 8 a.m. to
4 p.m. For information, call (800) 375-5283 or visit the INS Web site
(www.ins.usdoj.gov).

WEST PALM BEACH - Rewards of $ 1,500 are being offered toward the arrest and
conviction of the person who tied a dog to the Florida East Coast railroad
tracks at 23rd Street in West Palm Beach early Sunday morning. The dog, which
appeared to be a brown pit bull, was tied with a wire cord to the tracks and
killed around 2:50 a.m. Sunday. Anonymous donors offered $ 500 and the Animal
Rescue League offered $ 1,000. Anyone with information on the case can call West
Palm Beach Police at 653-3600.


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: BRIEF

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              298 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 24, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS SHOULD LET WORKING IMMIGRANTS STAY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 166 words


No one ever said life would be fair, and not everyone gets to see justice in
this country, but after reading Sunday's front-page article "An immigrant. A
country club. An American story" about Rigaud Moise and his family possibly
being deported back to Haiti, I can see how backward our country has become.

How much tax money has been used to keep Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban boy rescued
from the sea and taken by immigration authorities to be with his father, in this
country? What does it cost to house him and his friends and family until they
finally leave for Cuba?

Yet "Rego," the club "houseman" at Gleneagles Country Club in west Delray Beach,
is a working man who provides for his family and has been here for 10 years, and
now they want to deport this family?

I hope Congress will act to keep this family here on humanitarian grounds. How
many more productive, illegal aliens are out there who wish to stay because they
want freedom?

MICHELLE OFFUTT

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, 'Rego' Moise (mug

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              299 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 3, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECURITY AT WHAT PRICE?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 430 words


A former University of South Florida professor has been behind bars for more
than three years, without a trial, without even being formally charged with a
crime. It isn't happening in Cuba, China or Iran but in Bradenton, on Florida's
west coast.

Federal officials, citing national security reasons, claim they can't release
the proof they have against Mazen Najjar. But if they can't release the
information, they must release him or announce that they have codified a new
constitutional prejudice against anyone who is a Palestinian.

The 43-year-old immigrant, father of three daughters who are American citizens,
came to the United States in 1981 as a student. He was to be deported in May
1997 for visa violations, having overstayed his student permit. Instead, he was
arrested and held without bond. In September 1998, the Board of Immigration
Appeals ruled that secret evidence is allowed in national security cases. So he
has been jailed indefinitely, based on evidence that neither he nor his attorney
has been allowed to see.

The government's rationale is that the Gaza refugee, who had finished his
doctorate in engineering and was teaching Arabic at USF, also had volunteered as
an editor and administrator with a now-closed Islamic-oriented research
organization. Members said that they abhorred violence and fanaticism and that
their objective was to increase East-West dialogue.

In the post-World Trade Center bombing atmosphere, however, with suspicion
running high against anyone Arab or Muslim, federal investigators found
unconstitutional cache for their suspicions that the group was a front. Calling
him a terrorist sympathizer, they sold the argument that Mr. Najjar's release
would threaten national security and the safety of other persons or property.
How ridiculous is that? Using guilt by association as the standard, former
heavyweight champion Muhammad Ali, a speaker for and patron of many Muslim
organizations, could go to jail again simply for writing a check.

Finally, there's some movement to open Mr. Najjar's jail door. Responding to an
American Civil Liberties Union filing, a federal judge in Miami ruled last month
that the government violated his rights to due process and free speech. The
judge ordered a review of Mr. Najjar's case, which means he could be released at
any time. The same should happen for some 20 others nationwide, many Arab or
Muslim, who have been accused of terrorist ties and jailed without disclosing
evidence. The threat to America seems much greater from the people who put them
in jail.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              300 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 4, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

INS BACKLOG TAINTS THE AMERICAN DREAM

BYLINE: Chuck Holmes, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1425 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Mexican-born Vianey Cano is the kind of hard-working scholastic star who would
make any parent proud. From humble roots, she immigrated to Los Angeles nine
years ago, perfected English, earned a merit scholarship to college and
graduated last year from Occidental College with honors.

The daughter of a retired migrant farm worker, Cano, 25, now has her sights set
on a master's degree, then a doctorate, with the aim of becoming a college
professor.

There's just one hitch in this American success story. Despite her efforts, Cano
is not an American and not likely to become one any time soon.

Her life is on hold, just like more than 2 million applicants for citizenship
and legal residency caught in a bureaucratic backlog of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Cano is on a two-year waiting list for an interview for her application to
become a permanent legal resident. Once obtained, by law it is another five-year
wait to apply for citizenship.

Meanwhile, she is unable to continue her studies because student aid is
unavailable until she acquires her legal status. For Cano, tuition in California
would be assessed at an international student rate, roughly $ 10,000 a year more
than she would pay as a state resident.

"My father is a citizen, but I must wait 25 months before I can be interviewed,"
she said.

For millions of immigrants, America represents the promised land. That is, if
they can survive what one member of Congress has dubbed "the agency from hell."

Since 1998, the INS has been working to reduce a mountainous backlog of
applications from immigrants hoping to become naturalized as American citizens,
amid the biggest wave of immigration to the United States since the
unprecedented surge from Europe between 1900 and 1920.

On average, waiting times for naturalization cases have been reduced from 28
months to 12 months, according to the INS. The agency's goal is to pare the wait
to six months by October. The INS claims to have cut its record backlog of
nearly 2 million naturalization cases in 1998 down to about 1 million.

But that hasn't solved its problems.

Critics charge that by diverting resources to draw down the naturalization case
load, the waiting times are increased for immigrants seeking legal permanent
residency, working papers and other status changes. Another backlog is building,
they warn.

"There are deep problems with the system and it needs to be reorganized," said
Judith Golub of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "After all, what's
more important to this country than helping people become citizens, reuniting
families and helping American businesses who need workers get workers?"

America's foreign-born population has climbed to a record 25.8 million, or about
9.7 percent of the country's total population, with 9 million naturalized
citizens and 16 million noncitizens.

Since 1993, the agency's budget for enforcement and immigrant services has
tripled, with planned spending for 2001 to total $ 4.8 billion. The INS has more
than 29,000 employees.

The INS readily acknowledges its shortcomings and asserts it has made progress
toward reducing the backlog.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said the agency, which still relies on paper
files in this era of computerization, hopes Congress will finance a three-year
plan to automate the agency.

"The institutional machinery simply could not handle the pressure of the
workload," she said at a briefing Thursday.

The agency has opened a toll-free national customer service center and built a
national repository for files in Missouri to increase its efficiency in handling
cases. It is also stressing to its workers the need to make the agency more
responsive.

Yet INS officials also say they are coping with factors beyond their control,
including economic forces that entice immigrants to America and policy changes
enacted by Congress.

"It is not an easy task. Managers in the field have had the tough job of
balancing all their resources," said INS spokeswoman Elaine Komis.

Meanwhile, for many immigrants, the worst part of the process is simply not
knowing where their applications stand.

In a fit of outrage, New York immigration lawyer Ted Ruthizer sent the INS a
terse letter in April 1998 after the agency informed him that it was ready to
interview his client. The client could not attend the naturalization interview,
Ruthizer wrote back in a poignant, single-sentence letter, "as he died waiting
for his (interview) date to be scheduled."

Such embarrassing examples prompted the INS to put in place a two-year plan to
eradicate the backlog, with the help of supplemental spending from Congress and
a huge hike in the cost of applying for citizenship, from $ 95 to $ 225.

Some critics of the agency say the INS has gained ground in recent months simply
because the large fee increase has resulted in fewer applicants.

"One reason things have eased is that there are fewer applications, particularly
among low-income families," said Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera
Policy Institute, a California-based research group on Hispanic affairs. "We're
pricing citizenship out of the reach of many immigrants, and that's a disturbing
thing."

A government audit recently found that the INS lost files on about 44,000
applicants in the Los Angeles area and 4,000 in the Chicago area as it was
computerizing its files in 1997 and 1998.

"How many families are still waiting to hear if they will be granted
citizenship?" asked Rep. Judy Biggert, R-Ill., who prompted the Government
Accounting Office to investigate the missing cases. "We cannot expect people to
put their lives on hold because the INS cannot keep track of their paperwork."

While there are sharp political differences on Capitol Hill over how and whether
to allow more immigrants into America, there is a bipartisan bad opinion of the
INS.

At a congressional hearing in February, Rep. Lynn Woolsey, D-Calif., called the
INS "the agency from hell" in reference to the case backlog.

For Cano, it is a nervous time. Her father, who came to America in 1978 to pick
crops in Georgia, Texas, Florida and California before landing a factory job in
Los Angeles, became a naturalized citizen last year. But his health is failing
and he needs a liver transplant. Should he die before her scheduled interview,
it could ruin her chances to become a citizen. By law, he must be present at the
interview.

Meanwhile, the INS' job is not likely to get easier anytime soon.

America's high-tech industry continues to clamor for approval to bring in
thousands more tech workers on temporary visas to fill skilled jobs that
Americans cannot.

The U.S. Census Bureau predicts a growing need for immigrants to fill the U.S.
work force as baby boomers reach retirement age. The most pressing need will
occur between 2020 and 2030, according to a recent study, which could return
immigration levels to the highs of the late 1990s.

The projections are not lost on the INS, which offers no guarantees of future
performance.

"We think we've hit the peak and we're coming down in the number of
applications," said Komis, the INS spokeswoman.

"It is such an iffy thing, because our workload depends on so many policy issues
and so much of what's going on in our country. We're making progress now, but it
is difficult to predict. Who knows when the next avalanche might come?"

chuckh@coxnews.com

Race against time

Average waiting times for citizenship:

- Houston: 32 months

- New York: 30 months

- Miami: 28 months

- San Francisco: 28 months

- Newark, N.J.: 28 months

- Chicago: 24 months

- Los Angeles: 10 months

- Minneapolis-St. Paul: None

Source: Tomas Rivera Policy Institute


ON THE WEB

INS Home Page:

www.ins.usdoj.gov

/graphics/index.htm

Coming to America

New citizens in the 20th century:

                Immigrants    Becoming citizens
   1901-10     8.8 million   111,738 (from 1907-10)
   1911-20     5.7 million   1.1 million
   1921-30     4.1 million   1.8 million
   1931-40     0.5 million   1.5 million
   1941-50     1 million     2 million
   1951-60     2.5 million   1.2 million
   1961-70     3.3 million   1.1 million
   1971-80     4.5 million   1.5 million
   1981-90     7.3 million   2.2 million
   1991-98     7.6 million   4.3 million

Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              301 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 6, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS RALLY FOR BETTER TREATMENT FROM THE INS

BYLINE: Thomas R. Collins, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


About 400 Haitians joined voices at the Port of Palm Beach Saturday afternoon in
one loud demand for better treatment by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, an organization they said favors Cubans and other ethnic groups.

The rally clogged Avenue E on the north side of the port as Riviera Beach police
cars sat as sentinels on both sides of the block.

A group paraded up and down the street chanting in Creole, "We want amnesty!
When do we want it? Now!"

The United States deports Haitians more quickly than those in other ethnic
groups, they argued. Some said bluntly that the reason is skin color.

"We feel it is because we are Haitian and black," said Rony Blanc, 33, of
Boynton Beach, a task force member who helped organize the event.

INS officials could not be reached for a response Saturday night.

The example of the day was Elian Gonzalez; protesters said repeatedly that such
attention never would have been given to a Haitian boy.

They also said that a green-card application deadline under the Haitian Refugee
Immigration Fairness Act was set too early, giving Haitians only nine months to
submit documentation that takes a long time to secure from Haiti. The act gives
Haitians who have lived in the United States five years a chance to apply for
residency.

Salvatore Leandre, 25, of West Palm Beach, said he's lived in the United States
for nine years, working and getting his high school diploma.

But he said he couldn't apply for a green card because the process, which can
cost hundreds of dollars, was too expensive.

"We work so hard in this country," he said. "They should be able to help us
out."

thomas_collins@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run Early.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, TAYLOR JONES/Staff Photographer, Israel Pierre of West Palm
Beach (right) holds up a sign that reads 'Better Treatment in I.N.S. W.P.B.'
during a protest Saturday.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              302 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 12, 1997, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FAU PROFESSOR CHARGED WITH FRAUD, SMUGGLING IN SEX CASE

BYLINE: BARBARA FEDER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1092 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


A Florida Atlantic University business professor was arrested Friday and charged
with alien smuggling and passport fraud after he allegedly brought a teenage boy
from Honduras into the United States for sexual purposes.

Marvin Hersh, 57, is being held at the Palm Beach County Jail and is to appear
before a federal magistrate in West Palm Beach on Monday.

Customs agents were trying to determine whether sex charges would be filed as
FBI agents searched Hersh's suburban Boca Raton home Friday evening.

University President Anthony J. Catanese immediately suspended Hersh, said FAU
spokeswoman Lynn Laurenti. "He will not be interacting with any of our students
until this is resolved," she said.

The arrest capped a yearlong investigation that led authorities from an upscale
West Boca home to California to a remote seaport on the northern coast of
Honduras. The investigation was led by U.S. Customs and aided by the State
Department, the FBI, Immigration and Naturalization Services, the Florida
Attorney's Office, and child welfare authorities.

The boy was placed in a foster home in March 1996.

Investigative documents told of the well-traveled, multilingual professor's
growing involvement with sex tourism and his international search for child sex
partners.

That was no secret to Hersh's family, which had known about his self-admitted
urges to molest young boys for more than a decade.

In 1985, in the midst of a divorce, Hersh did not deny allegations that he
molested an 8-year-old relative, court documents show. In an affidavit, his
ex-wife said Hersh had disappeared for days while they were vacationing abroad.
Later, he told her he'd been with child prostitutes and street children.

Subsequently, an Atlanta judge ordered Hersh to stay in therapy so he could
continue to see his twin sons and daughter. The family never reported Hersh to
authorities, fearing the effect of the scandal on his mother, said Hersh's
sister, Susan Shapiro, of Chatsworth, Calif.

But another relative could not remain silent when Hersh's son, on a surprise
visit to Hersh's suburban Boca Raton home, encountered a slight, dark-haired boy
who spoke little English but seemed to be living there.

In March 1996, she reported Hersh to Florida child welfare authorities.

Investigators found the boy at Whispering Pines Elementary School, where Hersh
had enrolled him as his son, according to documents obtained by The Palm Beach
Post.

At first, the boy insisted Hersh was his father. Then he admitted he'd met Hersh
several years earlier in Honduras, documents show.

Hersh brought him to this country in the summer of 1995, the boy said.

Hersh told investigators the boy was the result of an affair he'd had with a
Honduran woman in San Diego and provided a California birth certificate that
showed the boy to be 12, according to sources and documents.

But U.S. immigration agents found the certificate was forged, documents show.
Hersh also applied for a passport for the boy, resulting in the passport charge,
according to a search warrant.

Last March, when investigators searched Hersh's two-story home in the Boca
Landings development, they found information from the North American Man-Boy
Love Association on his computer, along with pictures of shirtless young boys
with the lower halves of their bodies electronically concealed, sources said.

At that time, Hersh told investigators his "son" slept in an upstairs bedroom.
But investigators found all of the boy's clothes stored in Hersh's bedroom
downstairs; the boy's bed had no sheets, documents show.

In the boy's bedroom closet, investigators found a locked suitcase Hersh said
belonged to a friend, sources said. Inside the suitcase were hand-drawn maps.
One showed a boys' school and locations for observing the boys' activities;
another pointed out areas where children could be obtained for sex. The maps are
believed to be of Nepal and Honduras, sources said.

Child protective investigators at the time of the initial search let Hersh keep
the boy; both denied any abuse, documents show. But one or two days later, they
moved the boy to a foster home and enrolled him in a new school, documents show.

Doctors who examined the boy at about this time found no signs of sexual abuse,
documents show. But the boy's physical development showed he was no 12-year-old.
He was actually 16 or 17, he later admitted to investigators, sources said.

Hersh tried to regain custody of the boy immediately after he was taken away.
But after Hersh flunked a paternity test and refused to answer questions in a
deposition, a judge ordered him to stay away from the boy, who was kept in state
custody.

Meanwhile, the FBI searched for answers in Honduras.

A Honduran social worker tracked down the boy's family outside La Ceiba, a
seaport on Honduras' north coast, documents show. The family was very poor and
survived by farming land that Hersh had bought.

The boy's mother, Maria Salvator, told the social worker Hersh befriended one of
her older sons while traveling in Honduras and had spent several nights in a
hotel with him, documents show. The older son introduced Hersh to the boy, she
said. Hersh began to visit the family every few months, paying its rent and
expenses which sources estimated at $ 78 monthly. When he told Salvator he
wanted to educate her son in the U.S., she agreed, documents show.

Hersh, a former Emory University professor and business consultant, has taught
at FAU's decision sciences department since 1990. He may have planned to adopt
the boy, according to documents.

"I saw the boy once and he told me the child was his adopted son from Honduras,"
said neighbor John Greensboro, who often helped the professor with repair work
around the house.

The boy, who is now 17, has wavered between wanting to return to Hersh and going
home to his family, sources say.

For now, however, the Department of Children and Families, the Honduran
government and the boy's court-appointed guardian agree that he should stay with
his foster family, said guardian ad litem attorney Tina Talarchyk.

The worry, sources say, is that the boy could be exploited or "sold" if he
returns to his country.

"This case lifts the curtain on the dark side of child exploitation," said
Vincent Iglio, resident agent in charge of the U.S. Customs office in West Palm
Beach.

The Associated Press, Palm Beach Post reporter Lyda Longa and staff researchers
Barbara Shapiro, Amy Muscopolat and Michelle Quigley contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Marvin Hersh (mug)

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              303 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 10, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 357 words


 RIVIERA BEACH - U.S. Border Patrol and Coast Guard crews scrambled Friday to
intercept a Haitian freighter off Singer Island, suspecting the boat to be
carrying illegal human cargo. But instead of finding illegal immigrants aboard
the 55-foot freighter, federal officials found only five lost crew members,
Border Patrol spokesman Art Bullock said. ''They didn't have a compass,'' he
said. ''They were looking for the Miami River.'' Federal officials pointed the
Haitians in the right direction and sent them on their way, he said.

   Large boats seeking access from the ocean to the Intracoastal Waterway in
Fort Lauderdale will be diverted to the Palm Beach Inlet and other locations
starting at 6 a.m. Monday through 6 a.m. Wednesday. The 48-hour closing will
allow the Florida Department of Transportation construction crews time to anchor
a crane barge to make improvements to the 17th Street Causeway Bridge.

   JUPITER - The Florida Department of Transportation has awarded $ 64,697 to
the police department for a program that fights drunken driving. Money will be
used to buy a patrol car, video camera and radar and to pay the salary of a DUI
enforcement officer.

   BOCA RATON - Sugar Sand Park will be closed from Jan. 20 to Feb. 2 for work
connected with the planned community center and gymnasium scheduled to open this
summer. The $ 7 million expansion includes the 24,000-square-foot community
center, with a 150-seat theater, exhibit and meeting rooms and a children's
science museum; an 18,000-square-foot hardwood-floor gymnasium; a roller rink;
and an outdoor arena and additional picnic areas.

   ROYAL PALM BEACH - Palm Beach County's Parks and Recreation Department will
hold a grand opening of Seminole Palms Park today at 10. The 72-acre park has
six baseball diamonds, two softball diamonds, three multipurpose fields, a
practice field, playgrounds, picnic areas, bathrooms and bike paths.
Construction begins this year on the park's aquatic center, including a
25-yard-by-25-meter eight-lane competition pool. The park is on Southern
Boulevard west of State Road 7.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              304 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              October 13, 1998, Tuesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

POLICE ARREST MAN ACCUSED OF SMUGGLING TEEN INTO U.S.

BYLINE: Lillian Weis and Tim Pallesen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


For three weeks, Thomas Andres waited to be reunited with his stepson from
Guatemala.

Andres had made a deal with a ''coyote'' in Texas to smuggle the teenager for $
1,000 into the country over the Mexican border.

But when Miguel Perez Raynoso, 17, finally arrived in a van at a friend's house
on South K Street Monday afternoon, the smuggler hiked the price of the boy's
delivery to $ 2,400. Andres couldn't pay.

Police called in

The accused coyote, Francisco J. Avellaneda, 32, pushed Raynoso back into the
van and sped off.

''I didn't know if he was going to kill him or take him back to Mexico,''
Andres, 35, said in Spanish.

''I was scared,'' he said.

Andres, who's staying at 101 S. D St., called Lake Worth police and reported a
kidnapping shortly after noon.

When the smuggler called Andres about an hour later, police picked up the
telephone and set up an exchange: Raynoso for the full $ 2,400, Lt. Wayne Segee
said.

Alleged smuggler arrested

Andres rode his bicycle north on Dixie Highway, followed by Detective Ignacio
Jackson in an unmarked car.

Avellaneda was arrested at the open-air exchange on the 800 block of North Dixie
Highway. He is being held without bail at the Palm Beach County Jail.

The U.S. Border Patrol likely will file charges of conspiracy and transportation
of an illegal alien, Segee said.

Raynoso had been smuggled by land through Mexico, and driven in a Dodge Caravan
from Houston by Avellaneda, who brought along his wife and four children ages 3
to 12, Segee said.

The 29-year-old wife, Dany Michelle Avellaneda, and her children were released
by police Monday.

Teen must appear in court

Raynoso was released for the night to his stepfather, with orders from the
Border Patrol to appear in federal court today on charges of illegal entry into
the country, Segee said.

Andres, who said he's in the country legally, said he wanted to give his stepson
a better life.

He plans to take him to fill out his immigration papers today. Then, maybe, they
can harvest the chili, tomatoes and cucumbers along U.S. 441 in Jupiter
together.

Andres, an immigrant farm worker who works 13-hour days, has raised Raynoso
since he was a year old.

''I hope he will be able to stay,'' Andres said.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              305 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 10, 1999, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

BUSH SEEKS CRACKDOWN ON HUMAN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Brian E. Crowley and Bill Douthat, Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 964 words


Fearing that more Haitians could drown off Florida's coast, Gov. Jeb Bush is
asking Attorney General Janet Reno to crack down on the smugglers of human
cargo.

Reacting to Saturday's drowning of as many as 40 Haitians off the coast of Palm
Beach, Bush wants the Clinton administration to increase its interdiction
efforts, enlarge the size of the Krome Detention Center in Miami and offer
rewards for the capture and conviction of smugglers.

In addition, Bush said he wants to explore ways to use the Florida Department of
Law Enforcement to help federal agencies investigate smuggling operations. Late
Tuesday, Bush's staff was drafting a letter to administration officials in an
attempt to persuade the White House to take a more active role in preventing
smuggling.

Meanwhile, a Bahamian immigration official estimated that more than 1,000
Haitians are illegally in the Bahamas waiting for a way to get to South Florida.
He said Bahamian authorities are overwhelmed by the problem and blamed Haitians
in South Florida for bankrolling the smuggling.

In Washington, White House national security spokesman Mike Hammer said the
Clinton administration sees no need to change policy to deal with the problem.
The administration is "doing everything we can to discourage people from risking
their lives to make the voyage," he said.

In Delray Beach, local Haitian leaders helped grieving relatives tentatively
identify two of the drowning victims - Michaelle Dieujuste, 25, and Immacula
Fleurantin, 33 - from personal effects found on the bodies.

"The federal government needs to begin to prosecute these smugglers," Bush said.
"These people are making money off the suffering of these people and it has to
stop."

Expanding the Krome Detention Center would send a signal to both smugglers and
those trying to enter the country illegally that the United States intends to
control this situation, Bush said. "Trading in human lives is absolutely wrong."

Most of the federal effort has been to track down drug smugglers on the high
seas. Bush does not want the government to stop its drug enforcement on the high
seas. He wants the administration to put more money and manpower into tracking
human cargo smugglers.

So far, there is no indication that the White House plans to do either. Nor was
there any indication that the Bahamas was planning to do more to stop smugglers
from using the islands as a transfer station for smugglers.

"We are the innocent bystander,'' said Lambert Campbell, the immigration chief
for Grand Bahama Island, a major launching point for smugglers' boats. "We are
directing needed financial resources to try to arrest a situation that is really
out of our control.''

Campbell said his government deports hundreds of Haitians from the Bahamas each
year but is powerless to stop the trafficking of human cargo that helped lead to
Saturday's mass drowning.

In what officials said was an unrelated action on Monday, immigration agents
raided an apartment complex in downtown Freeport, Bahamas, and hauled away 12
Haitians. Some were found hiding in the ceiling.

The Haitians were flown to a detention center in Nassau where they will be held
for deportation, Campbell said.

The raid brought fear to those living in the neighborhood just a few blocks from
the city's shopping and casino center.

"I know what happened but I can't talk,'' said a woman who lives across the
street from the apartment complex. "I can't say anything unless I have
security.'

A man who dropped by the apartment insisted the minor raids do nothing to stop
the crossing of hundreds of Haitians to Florida.

"As long as the people are coming from Haiti, there are people who will provide
the Freeport-to-Florida services,'' said Malario Sarrette, who said he provided
translation and consultation services to the Haitian community.

Sarrette, who has dual Haitian and Bahamian citizenship, said he's offered to
monitor air passenger arrivals from Haiti but that the Bahamians have declined
his services. Marinas and waterways are not watched closely by authorities, he
said.

Sarrette's estimate of 12,000 illegal Haitians on the narrow, 96-mile long Grand
Bahama Island is overblown, Campbell says. He puts the figure at about 1,000.

The island, 60 miles east of Palm Beach, has 40,000 residents including many
Haitians with Bahamian citizenship.

Campbell says his force of 42 immigration officers is stretched to deal with the
thousands of tourists and waves of immigrants passing though the island. Still,
he said they detected 296 illegal immigrants last year and are dealing with
increasing numbers this year.

The authorities are less successful in deterring smugglers. The six Campbell
says were prosecuted in recent months were handed fines of $ 1,500 to $ 4,000
but none served jail terms.

Campbell suggests that many of the skippers are outsiders.  "A lot of this
nefarious business is captained by persons from the United States,'' he said.
Smugglers charge immigrants from $ 1,500 to $ 2,500 to make the three-hour
crossing, often in leaky and overcrowded boats.

The smugglers who arranged Saturday's ill-fated voyage have not been identified.

"This business is a very close-knit one,'' Campbell said. "If you go out into
the community, it's like nothing has happened.''

At this point, the U.S. Coast Guard in Miami has no plans to alter its
operations with regard to human cargo smuggling, said Lt. Cmdr. Mark Woodring.
The Coast Guard spent about $ 77 million intercepting boats carrying illegal
immigrants during the 1998 fiscal year according to budget estimates. Twice as
much is spent combatting drug smugglers.

Staff writers Gary Kane , Larry Lipman, Angie Scharnhorst and Mary Lou Pickel
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1C & 2 B&W, 1. (C) Jeb Bush (mug), 2. (B&W) Campbell (mug), 3.
(B&W) SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, Malario Sarrette, who says he provides
immigration services for Haitians, walks on Wendell Avenue in Freeport, Bahamas,
where 12 illegal Haitian immigrants were picked up Monday.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              306 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 14, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLERS FACE FEW RISKS IN FEDERAL COURTS

BYLINE: Gary Kane, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1878 words


It's a crime with built-in deniability.

This is how it plays out: A U.S. Coast Guard patrol stops a high-speed boat off
the Florida Keys. It finds a dozen Cuban passengers aboard. The boat's captain
explains that he happened to be fishing when he spotted the Cubans struggling in
a sinking raft. Though the passengers show no signs of fatigue, dehydration or
injury, theytreated as a hero.

Smuggling cases are difficult to prosecute because often the only witness to the
crime is the smuggled human cargo. And people who spend their life savings in a
desperate bid to get into the United States make reluctant witnesses,
prosecutors say.

The problem of building a case becomes particularly acute when it involves
Cubans, said one Justice Department source who traded his candid remarks for
anonymity.

''When you're dealing with a Cuban boat captain and Cuban passengers,
invariably, everyone denies that smuggling is taking place,'' he said. ''It's
always a rescue at sea.''

The business of immigrant smuggling prospers. Demand is high. Cuban, Haitian and
other economic and political refugees eagerly hire entrepreneurs with fast boats
capable of dodging Coast Guard patrols. The risks of capture and punishment are
low. The Border Patrol in Florida hasn't seen an increase in manpower in 10
years. Convicted smugglers seldom spend much time in prison.

Built-in deniability is one reason South Florida's federal prosecutors
historically have been reluctant to drag suspected smugglers into court. They
filed only 101 cases of smuggling or harboring illegal aliens during a five-year
period ending September 1998, according to Justice Department records. They
declined to prosecute another 47 cases referred to them by immigration and other
law enforcement officials during that period.

U.S. Attorney Thomas Scott, who assumed office in mid-1997, declined to discuss
the past performance of federal prosecutors in South Florida. His policy is to
prosecute smugglers aggressively, he said.

His prosecutors filed 21 alien smuggling cases during the past six months.

Fifteen prosecutors are available for smuggling cases, said John Schlesinger,
Scott's special counsel. The office also acquired three attorneys on loan from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to help deal with immigration cases.
At this point, however, there are no plans to create a special smuggling unit as
there are for drugs and white collar crimes.

Kathleen Williams, the federal public defender in Miami, said she hasn't noticed
a sharp increase in smuggling cases.

''There certainly has been an appreciable increase in the number of press
conferences on the subject,'' she said. ''It could be they're being more
aggressive or it could be they're making a lot of noise about it.''

Williams suggested to Scott that federal prosecutors and public defenders work
together to expedite smuggling cases.

''I was rebuffed,'' she said. ''I was told they didn't have enough cases to
warrant that.''

The punishment is light

Historically, smugglers faced little or no prison time if caught. Prosecutors
suffered a frustrating irony: On average, they spent more time preparing a case
- roughly six months - than the smuggler spent in prison.

Furthermore, punishment was light even when smuggled people died. For example,
last year three Cubans drowned during a smuggling trip. Two brothers pleaded
guilty and were sentenced to fewer than four years in prison. In 1994, four
Haitians - two adults and two children - drowned off Jensen Beach in a smuggling
attempt. The boat's captain was sentenced to less than four years.

''Quite frankly, the penalty for getting caught smuggling aliens is just not the
same as for someone caught carrying a load of drugs,'' said Mark Briesemeister,
who supervises an anti-smuggling unit for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Miami. ''To the smuggler, the risks are minimal and the profit
potential is high.''

Congress upped the stakes two years ago when it toughened the penalties for the
crime. The maximum penalty for alien smuggling doubled to 10 years. Federal
judges must sentence smugglers to a minimum of three years now if prosecutors
prove the crime was committed for profit. And prosecutors can now seek the death
penalty for smugglers who cause deaths.

Attitudes changing

Cuban smugglers have operated with near impunity. For years, federal prosecutors
hesitated to take smuggling cases to trial in Miami, where juries could easily
include exiles and immigrants.

The Palm Beach Post examined the cases of 21 defendants who pleaded guilty to
smuggling and four who were convicted during 1996 and 1997. None involved
Cubans.

That's beginning to change. In 1998 South Florida prosecutors filed alien
smuggling charges in six incidents involving Cubans. Nine Cubans were charged.

Immigrants drowned in two of those episodes. In the most dramatic, a boat packed
with 23 Cubans capsized on Dec. 17 south of Miami. Officials believe 14 people
drowned.

Such tragedies are altering South Florida's attitudes toward smugglers, the U.S.
attorney said. The Cuban community now supports a crackdown, he said.

''I think they recognize that many of these cases are strictly about money and
may involve death,'' Scott said.

Federal prosecutors secure guilty pleas or verdicts in more than 80 percent of
the smuggling cases in South Florida, according to Justice Department records.
Prosecutors in the Southwest boast the same success rate.

However, South Florida prosecutors historically have dropped the charges in
smuggling cases more often than their colleagues in the Southwest - and
prosecutors there handle far more cases.

South Florida prosecutors declined 48.8 percent of the smuggling cases referred
to them by law enforcement during a five-year period ending Sept. 30, 1997.
Prosecutors in Arizona declined 6.4 percent during that period. Prosecutors in
South Texas and Southern California dropped only 3 percent.

Regional comparisons are misleading, cautions Assistant U.S. Attorney John
Schlesinger.

''There's no plausible deniability in the Southwest,'' he said. ''For example,
if the Border Patrol stops a car crossing the Mexican border and finds a few
aliens in the trunk, what can the driver say?''

Weak evidence prompted prosecutors in South Florida to drop 16 smuggling cases
during the five-year period examined by The Post. They declined to prosecute 18
others because of a ''lack of investigative or prosecutorial resources,''
according to Justice Department records.

Testimony unreliable

It's tough to prosecute cases that rely on the testimony of smuggled immigrants.

Investigators often must decide at sea whether to hold smuggled immigrants as
witnesses or send them back to their homeland. Repatriation usually means
forfeiting their testimony, though prosecutors have in rare instances taken
depositions on foreign soil. However, that approach raises a Sixth Amendment
issue of the accused smuggler's right to confront all witnesses.

A boatload of Cubans interdicted at sea might be eager to be brought to shore to
testify in a smuggling case. Once in the country, the Cuban Refugee Readjustment
Act kicks in, allowing them to remain in the country and become eligible for
citizenship after five years. In effect, prosecutors who bring witnesses ashore
are finishing the smuggler's job.

''Bringing Cuban aliens into Miami to be witnesses is shooting the
anti-smuggling effort in the foot,'' said a Justice Department source.

Also, defense attorneys are quick to attack the credibility of migrant
witnesses. They trade their testimony for promises of work permits and
citizenship, attorneys argue.

Often, smuggled individuals refuse to become witnesses. Two Bahamian men
suspected of smuggling 15 Haitians into Broward County were deported to Freeport
in January after Border Patrol agents failed to persuade any of the refugees to
testify.

''I'd say that 80 percent of people don't want to cooperate,'' said Steve
Quinones, head of the Border Patrol's anti-smuggling unit in Miami.

Without believable witnesses, prosecutors usually must rely on circumstantial
evidence. They cite the cash, cell phone numbers and the boat's high-tech
navigational gear that pinpoints the migrants' destination.

Many open-and-shut cases

Most smuggling convictions are open-and-shut cases: a rental van packed with
Mexicans stopped on Interstate 95, Ecuadorans arriving at Miami International
Airport with fake passports, Dominicans stowed away in a cruise ship cabin.

Prosecutors convicted 61 people of smuggling or harboring aliens during the
five-year period ending in September 1997. Most were guilty pleas.

But most of those smugglers didn't go to prison. About one in four was sentenced
to prison during that period.

Courts in the Southwest seem tougher. Judges in Arizona sentenced 30.5 percent
to prison. Southern California judges sent 45 percent to prison and South Texas
judges imprisoned slightly more than half.

Those who were sentenced to prison haven't done much time. The median prison
term in 1997, what the majority of smugglers convicted in South Florida faced,
was five months.

Prosecutors have managed to send smugglers away for longer prison terms by
charging them with other crimes. For example, if a deported smuggler comes back
to the United States, just walking the streets is evidence of a new crime:
reentering the country.

The charge, dubbed ''felony walking,'' is virtually indefensible.

Fewer trials, less prison time

Federal prosecutors in South Florida pursue fewer smuggling cases referred to
them by the U.S. Border Patrol than prosecutors in the Southwest. And fewer of
those trials result in smugglers going to prison.

Percent of alien smuggling and alien harboring cases referred by Border Patrol
and other agencies that were prosecuted in 1997-98 fiscal year

    South Florida        62%
   Arizona              92%
   Southern California  99%
   Central California   99%
   South Texas          99%
   West Texas           71%
   New Mexico           92%


   Percent of smuggling and harboring cases referred to U.S Attorney's office in
which defendants were prosecuted and sentenced to prison

   South Florida        26%
   Arizona              40%
   Southern California  57%
   Central California   57%
   South Texas          58%
   West Texas           37%
   New Mexico           50%


Source: Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, Syracuse University

Fewer cases in South Florida

Cases of alien smuggling/harboring filed by federal prosecutors in fiscal year
ending on Sept. 30, 1997:

    Southern California      430
   South Texas              348
   West Texas               195
   New Mexico               131
   Central California       119
   Arizona                  109
   South Florida             21

Source: Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, Syracuse University


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Second of three parts

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) & GRAPHIC (C & B&W, 1. 1994 Palm Beach Post File Photo,
HIGH PRICE: A Haitian father detained after a February 1994 smuggling attempt on
Hutchinson Island mourns the death of his 6-year-old son. The boy was among four
refugees who drowned struggling to shore after the smuggler forced the Haitians
to jump into the sea. Richard Barker, the smuggler known as 'Captain Jump-Off,'
served just 46 months in prison for his role in the four deaths., 2. (C) ROB
BARGE/Staff Artist, Bar graphs with percent of alien smuggling/harboring cases
prosecuted and sentenced to prison., 3. CHRISTOPHER SMITH/Staff Artist, Bar
graph showing cases of alien smuggling/harboring cases filed in fiscal year 1997
by U.S. region

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              307 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 14, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

THE DOCKET

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 952 words


Of the 12 people charged in a sampling of recent alien-smuggling cases, only
eight were sentenced to time in prison. The average sentence was just 26 months.

Boat sinks, 3 die in botched smuggling attempt

DEFENDANTS: Abel Morejon, 38, and Nicandro Morejon Mayonada, 39.

ALLEGATIONS: The Morejon brothers rented a 23-foot powerboat on March 9 from
Club Nautico in Miami. The next day they motored to Bimini, where they met with
14 Cubans who agreed to pay $ 1,500 each to be smuggled into Florida. On March
12, the U.S. Coast Guard received a distress call from Nicandro, who said their
boat was sinking 3 miles offshore of Miami Beach. Rescuers found the boat
overturned in 6-9 foot seas. Aurelio Sanchez, his wife and 3-year-old daughter
drowned.

IN COURT: Abel Morejon was sentenced on Feb. 18 to 46 months in prison. His
brother, deemed to have a lesser role in the incident, was sentenced to 37
months. The brothers interrupted their trial in November to plead guilty to 14
felony counts of smuggling conspiracy. Prosecutors decided against pursuing the
death penalty because of the brothers' attempts to rescue their passengers.

14 Ecuadorians brought to Palm Beach

DEFENDANTS: Richard, 41, and Yvonne, 39, Mulligan; Rolando Barcelo, 26; Gregorio
Nelson Cabrera, 43; and Dien Rodriguez, 27.

ALLEGATIONS: In March 1998, Richard Mulligan escorted 14 Ecuadorians on a flight
from their homeland to Santo Domingo, the Dominican Republic. They had paid him
fees ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 7,500 to be smuggled into the United States. The
Ecuadorians were then taken to the Bahamas. On May 12, Yvonne Mulligan and
Rodriguez gathered the Ecuadorians in Freeport, where Cabrera arrived in a
25-foot powerboat. Cabrera was to be paid $ 10,000 by Yvonne Mulligan for his
role in the smuggling operation. The powerboat unloaded the aliens ashore at
Palm Beach, where they were met by Barcelo, who was to take them to his home in
Miami. Local police apprehended Barcelo and the aliens.

IN COURT: Barcelo, Cabrera and Rodriguez cooperated with investigators in return
for light sentences. Barcelo was sentenced to five years probation (6 months
confined in his residence). Cabrera and Rodriguez were sentenced to one year and
one day in prison. The Mulligans pleaded guilty on Dec. 18 to one count of alien
smuggling and were sentenced to three years in prison.

25 Indian nationals hidden on sailboat

DEFENDANT: William B. Pace, 53, South Palm Beach.

ALLEGATIONS: On July 26, U.S. Customs stopped the sailboat Lucky Lady about 2
miles outside Lake Worth Inlet. The vessel wasn't flying a yellow quarantine
flag as required when arriving from a foreign country. William Pace, the
captain, told Customs officers he was traveling from Fort Lauderdale to West
Palm Beach. Customs officers found 25 Indian nationals hidden below deck. They
also found $ 20,600 in cash.

IN COURT: Pace pleaded guilty to alien smuggling and was sentenced Jan. 14 to 26
months in prison.

Aliens paid as much as $ 35,000 each

DEFENDANT: David Irvine, 53, Pompano Beach.

ALLEGATIONS: Miami immigration officials received a tip on Oct. 21, 1996, that a
vessel left Freeport, Bahamas, with four Chinese nationals aboard. U.S. Customs
agents boarded Irvine's boat just outside the Hillsboro Inlet and found the
aliens hiding under a tarp at the forward area of the boat. The Chinese said
they had paid as much as $ 35,000 each to be smuggled into the United States via
a route that took them through Europe, South America, Cuba and the Bahamas.

IN COURT: Irvine pleaded guilty on Jan. 23, 1997, to one count of smuggling
aliens. He was sentenced to five years of probation. Computer records show he
also had been convicted of alien smuggling in 1985.

Indian nationals smuggled through marina

DEFENDANT: Charles Christopher Pratt, 33, Freeport, Bahamas

ALLEGATIONS: On April 14, Pratt smuggled 12 Indian nationals into the country
through the Riviera Beach Marina.

IN COURT: Pratt pleaded guilty to 13 counts of alien smuggling. He argued that
he worked ''free-lance'' for a larger smuggling ring. He was sentenced on Sept.
8 to one year and one day in prison.

Officer nabs two boats with illegal aliens

DEFENDANT: Mark Caranci, 43, Boca Raton

ALLEGATIONS: A Pompano Beach police officer spotted Caranci piloting his 23-foot
boat toward the Hillsboro Inlet on Oct. 23, 1996. Two Chinese women sat near him
in the boat. The sighting piqued the officer's interest because he had stopped a
boat carrying Chinese illegal aliens the previous day in the same location.
Caranci told investigators he had picked up four Chinese people in a raft at
sea. But his passengers told investigators they had paid roughly $ 10,000 each
to be smuggled into the U.S.

IN COURT: Caranci pleaded to one count of alien smuggling and was sentenced on
July 14, 1997, to six months of home confinement and three years probation.

Mom, 2 kids smuggled in on airliner

DEFENDANT: Delroy Denton Carter, 33, Jamaica

ALLEGATIONS: Carter arrived at Miami International Airport on Nov. 11, 1996, on
an American Airlines flight from Kingston, Jamaica. He was accompanied by a
woman and two children. INS inspectors noticed the group's passports appeared to
have been altered. Upon questioning, Monica Green said she had paid $ 10,000 in
Jamaican currency and another $ 10,000 to be smuggled into the U.S. with her two
children. Carter then told investigators he was working as a middleman for a
smuggling operation.

IN COURT:Carter was sentenced to six months in prison on Feb. 21, 1997, after
pleading guilty to alien smuggling and illegally reentering the country after
being deported.

Source: U.S. District Court records

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, U.S. Attorney Thomas Scott says the Cuban community in
South Florida supports a crackdown on smugglers: 'I think they recognize that
many of these cases are strictly about money and may involve death.'

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              308 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 4, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLER SENTENCED TO 10 YEARS

BYLINE: Jenny Staletovich, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


He promised safe passage to a better life in Florida. Instead, a Bahamian
smuggler piloting a small motorboat crammed with nearly three dozen Haitian
refugees delivered two to their deaths.

For that, Addison Hepburn received 10 years in prison Friday, a penalty just a
month shy of the harshest possible sentence under relatively new smuggling laws.

When asked by U.S. District Court Judge William E. Dimitrouleas if he would like
to speak, Hepburn remained mute. His only request: that he be imprisoned in
Florida to be close to his family in the Bahamas.

Hepburn becomes one of the few sentenced under a law included in President
Clinton's $ 30 billion omnibus crime bill in 1994 that raises the stakes when
smuggling results in a death, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Neil Karadbil.
Karadbil said he could not charge Hepburn directly with the deaths of Benette
Dorsonne, 25, and Richard Bresendieu, who was in his late 30s when the two
drowned in August 1998, because "it's not like he hit them over the head and
threw them overboard.

"What the jury found was more in the area of gross negligence," he said. "He let
them off before they made it to shore and the facts show there was a sandbar and
he could have thought that was shore."

Jurors convicted Hepburn, 45, on 16 of 40 charges in May and linked him only to
Dorsonne's death. His sentence Friday, even his actions, did not outrage Haitian
American Community Council Director Daniella Henry.

"I did have hard feelings at the beginning, but you have to look at the picture
as a whole," Henry said. "He was helping those people, getting them from the
Bahamas to the promised land. He was not the one collecting the money up front.
That was the big players. He's in jail and the big players are somewhere
enjoying the money."

In recent years, Haitians fleeing their country through the Bahamas have
increased dramatically. The passage, while more expensive, is safer than
crossing in the rickety handmade sailboats that leave from the small towns up
and down Haiti's ragged coast. Many fly into the Bahamas where they can remain
for months awaiting passage. The Coast Guard has pulled 355 Haitians from the
sea so far this year, compared with 1,206 in 1998.

During his three-day trial, Hepburn said he was paid $ 500 to pilot the 23-foot
motorboat from the Bahamas to the Port of Palm Beach and back.

Hepburn said he thought the boat held only a few Haitian passengers, all legal,
when he set out. He said he was already far out to sea when he discovered that
33 had crammed aboard.

But prosecutors argued that Hepburn knowingly smuggled the group, charging up to
$ 1,500 each. He piloted the boat to just south of the Jupiter Inlet where he
forced them overboard, into the dark and onto a sandbar at least 100 yards
offshore.

The group huddled on the sandbar or struggled with the waves in the darkness
before a fisherman radioed for help about 4:55 a.m.

About five minutes before the first U.S. Coast Guard rescue boat arrived,
Dorsonne's body washed ashore. Nineteen others made it to shore while the rest
stood on the sandbar until a larger rescue boat arrived. Bresendieu's body
washed ashore the next day.

Hepburn did not travel far from the scene of the crime. By daybreak, U.S. Border
Patrol agents had found him just a mile away, 50 yards offshore, asleep on his
boat.

Such tragedies are not uncommon along South Florida's coast.

In March of this year, the Coast Guard pulled two bodies from the surf after two
boats reportedly capsized. Thirty-eight were presumed missing. In October 1981,
33 people perished after their leaky sailboat splintered in surf less than a
half-mile from Hillsboro Beach. In 1994, two children and two adults drowned off
Martin County when a smuggler, dubbed Captain Jump-Off, forced them overboard.
The smuggler, Richard B. Barker, was convicted but served less than four years.
In June, he was sentenced to life in prison on drug charges.

Staff researcher Dorothy Shea contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1999 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              309 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 4, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

DELRAY VEGETABLE FARM TO EMPLOY 370 FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: LISA SHUCHMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 984 words


A Palm Beach County vegetable farm has permission from the federal government to
bring more than 350 foreign farm laborers to Florida to work in its cucumber and
pepper fields.

Pero Family Farms Inc. submitted an application to the U.S. Department of Labor
seeking special, "H-2A" visa status for 370 vegetable workers. That application
has been approved, clearing the way for the farm to begin bringing in foreign
workers next month.

Such a move would make the Delray Beach-based farm the first vegetable-growing
operation in Florida to employ H-2A workers since the 1960s. It also would be
the first farm in Florida to use the federal government's H-2A program since
1995, when all the sugar companies converted to mechanical harvesting and
stopped importing cane cutters from the Caribbean.

The H-2A program allows farmers to import foreign labor to work in perishable
crops if they can show they are unable to find enough U.S. workers for the job.
Florida sugar producers used the program for more than 50 years, but the state's
fruit and vegetable growers have not employed such workers for more than 30
years.

Farm worker advocates have long objected to the program, arguing that it
displaces domestic workers and lowers the wages and working conditions of farm
workers in the United States.

Pero Farms intends to use the workers in its fields in Palm Beach, Martin,
Collier, Hendry, St. Lucie and Okeechobee counties, according to the farm's
application.

All of the workers would be housed at a labor camp near Pahokee. Osceola Farms,
a sugar operation owned by the Fanjul family of Palm Beach, used the same camp
to house H-2A workers when it still harvested cane by hand.

Pero Farms offered no explanation for its decision to seek H-2A workers for the
upcoming season. Tony Sarzuela, the farm's compliance director, said Tuesday he
was instructed to say the farm had no comment. No other South Florida farms have
submitted H-2A applications, the Labor Department said.

Growers complain that they have trouble finding enough domestic workers who are
legally able and willing to do farm work. Farmers say the situation has gotten
worse in recent months because the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
has made several raids in Florida, deporting large numbers of undocumented
workers who did farm work.

One such raid took place in Palm Beach County in April, when 254 farm workers
were rounded up by U.S. Border Patrol.

Even so, labor advocates say there is no shortage of legal farm workers in
Florida. U.S. citizens, permanent residents and other documented immigrants can
legally work here.

"There's extensive underemployment in this area," said Greg Schell, an attorney
with the Farm-worker Justice Project in Belle Glade. "With proper publicity and
recruitment, they'd have no trouble filling these jobs with domestic workers."

But growers prefer the H-2A program, Schell said, because it gives them more
control over their labor force and removes pressures to increase wages and
improve working conditions. Under the H-2A program, farmers can preselect
workers and ensure they get only males and only workers in their prime earning
years, he said.

Pero Farms wants to employ offshore workers from July 10 through May.  The
workers would be required to lay plastic, and plant and harvest cucumbers and
peppers. Most would be paid on a piece rate, with a guarantee of $ 6.36 an hour,
according to the job order filed with the Labor Department.

Before Pero Farms can bring foreign workers to Florida, it must show it has
tried to recruit U.S. workers but has been unsuccessful, said Carl Miller,
agricultural labor specialist with the Labor Department in Atlanta.

But farm worker advocates say the job requirements and wages described in Pero
Farms' offer of employment will discourage domestic workers from seeking the
jobs. This will result in the displacement of domestic workers, just as the
sugar companies' requirements displaced domestic cane cutters, they say.

"This contract is even more ridiculous than the cane cutter contracts," Schell
said. "The Labor Department should never have signed off on it."

The base piece rate offered in an H-2A application, for example, is supposed to
equal the area's prevailing wage for such work, Schell said. This prevents
domestic workers from being displaced. But the rate being offered in the
contract is below that level, according to Schell.

The Pero Farms job offer also requires workers to have at least 29 days'
experience. Schell said the jobs being offered are categorized by the Labor
Department as "entry level," so an H-2A application for such workers should not
require previous experience.

Even domestic workers with many years of experience will not necessarily be able
to prove they've done such work, he said.

The application also sets a minimum productivity standard requiring workers to
pick an average of 180-200 buckets of peppers a day on the first harvest of a
pepper field. Schell says no one picks at that rate.

"That's more than 20 buckets an hour, or a bucket every three minutes," he said.
You'd have to be Superman to keep up that pace."

H-2A program

The federal program allows farmers to apply for permission to bring foreign
workers into the United States on a temporary or seasonal basis:

Employers first must prove they were not successful in efforts to recruit
workers in the United States.

Workers are permitted to work only for the employer who brings them to the
United States. They also must live in housing supplied by the employer.

Workers can do only the jobs described in the farmer's application to the
federal government. Once that work is completed, they must return to their home
country.

Labor advocates object to the program because they say it displaces domestic
workers and depresses farm worker wages and working conditions.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              310 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   June 13, 1997, Friday Correction Appended
                                  FINAL EDITION

SEVERAL APPLY TO WORK FOR PERO FAMILY FARMS; FEW INTERVIEWED

BYLINE: LISA SHUCHMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


About 10 farm workers showed up Thursday at the Florida Job Services office in
this farming community, seeking jobs with a farm that says it can't find
qualified workers in the United States and needs to hire foreign workers
instead.

Most people who came were sent away without being interviewed.

"I don't think it's right," said Lonnie Fuqua, one of only three candidates who
got an interview. "I think everybody (here) should be able to get a job."

The workers, who were seeking jobs with Pero Family Farms Inc., were told
initially they needed proof they had at least 29 days' previous experience
working in pepper, cucumber and eggplant fields. Job candidates who could not
provide verification of previous experience were sent away.

Pero Farms has received permission to hire 370 foreign farmworkers under the
federal government's "H-2A" program. But before it can bring foreign workers to
Florida, the Delray Beach-based farm must try to recruit workers in the United
States.

Initially, about half a dozen job candidates who did not have proof of
experience were turned away, said Sandra Unruh, a legal assistant with the
Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Belle Glade.

Only after a Florida Department of Labor administrator in Tallahassee instructed
the Belle Glade office to refer all applicants for the jobs were interviews
granted to everyone.

That made it possible for Lillian Wiley to interview with Pero Farms. The South
Bay woman said she has picked fruits and bell peppers with her family, but
doesn't have documents to show it. She went to the Job Services office, she
said, because she heard Pero Farms could give her a job.

"I need one," the unemployed farm worker said. "I don't care (where), as long as
I work."

Farm worker advocates are challenging several provisions of the Pero Farms' H-2A
application, including the previous-experience requirement, which applies to
both foreign and domestic workers. They claim the courts and the Labor
Department's own regulations have held that farm work does not require special
training or experience.

Farmers, they say, include such requirements in order to discourage domestic
farm workers from applying for jobs the farm wants to fill with foreign
laborers.

Tony Sarzuela, who conducted the interviews for Pero Farms, said he was unaware
at the time that people without proof of experience were being turned away. He
is willing to do any necessary verification himself, he said.

He also denied Pero Farms is making it difficult for U.S. workers to qualify for
the jobs so it can hire foreign workers.

"If I can get workers in the United States, I'll take them," he said. "If they
have experience and I can verify it, and if they're willing and able to work,
I'll hire them."

Florida vegetable growers have not used H-2A workers for 30 years. Sarzuela said
offshore workers are needed now because the farm can't find reliable workers in
the United States.

He also said he expected more people to show up for the interviews in Belle
Glade, as he advertised the jobs in The Palm Beach Post and on the radio, on
WJNO.

But most farm workers don't read mainstream newspapers or listen to conventional
English-language radio stations, farm worker advocates say.

"Farm workers are loyal listeners of ethnic radio stations," farmworker attorney
Greg Schell wrote in a June 10 letter to the regional administrator of the U.S.
Department of Labor in Atlanta.

In that letter, Schell named several such stations and suggested several other
ways Pero Farms might successfully recruit domestic farm workers.

He also challenged several aspects of Pero Farms' H-2A application, saying the
U.S. Department of Labor should not have approved it because the wages and
working conditions described are not consistent with prevailing practices in
South Florida.

State Labor Department officials are currently conducting surveys to determine
prevailing practices and should have all the data by the end of the week, King
said.

Sarzuela said he would be in Belle Glade again today to do more interviews and
would be in the Job Services office in Fort Pierce on June 30.

Staff writer Jennifer Peltz contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 1997

CORRECTION:
A headline in Friday's Palm Beach Post mischaracterized who is being sought for
farming jobs by Pero Family Farms Inc. The Delray Beach-based farm is seeking to
fill the jobs with domestic workers first and will seek certification for
foreign workers as a last resort.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) , Greg Schell (mug)

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              311 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    June 25, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

DELRAY-BASED FARM WITHDRAWS REQUEST FOR 370 FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: LISA SHUCHMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 639 words


A Delray Beach-based farm seeking permission to bring 370 foreign farm workers
to Florida to plant and harvest its crops has withdrawn its application to the
U.S. Department of Labor.

Pero Family Farms faxed a letter Tuesday to the Labor Department's regional
office in Atlanta asking that its application for foreign agricultural workers
be withdrawn, said Floyd Goodman, the Labor Department official who certifies
applications for offshore workers.

The government allows farmers to import foreign laborers, known as H-2A workers,
when domestic workers cannot be found.

Pero Farms said it needed offshore workers to ensure a stable work force. The
pepper and cucumber grower alleged that most of the farm workers available in
Florida are undocumented workers and that it feared those workers might be
deported in mid-season, leaving it without a work force to harvest its crops.

No one from Pero Farms could be reached Tuesday. But Goodman said Pero Farms
withdrew its application for H-2A workers because it was able to find workers
through other means.

Pero Farms' H-2A application was controversial from the outset. Labor advocates,
who dislike the program because they say it displaces domestic farm workers and
depresses their wages and working conditions, had objected to the farm's
clearance order - the document that details the wages and working conditions of
the jobs offered.

Many of the job requirements and conditions were inconsistent with U.S. labor
laws and regulations, they said.

The Labor Department agreed on some counts, requiring, for example, that Pero
Farms drop a provision that prospective job candidates have at least 29 days'
experience. The department's regulations specify that farm work does not require
experience.

The Labor Department was also considering other changes that could have meant
Pero Farms would have to pay higher wages and offer different conditions of
employment. Under the law, the wages and working conditions described in a
clearance order are supposed to be consistent with the prevailing wages and
practices associated with that job in the area.

"We were still in negotiations about things that needed to be changed when they
decided to withdraw the application," Goodman said. "We were still working out
what corrective measures needed to be taken."

Technically, the certification deadline was last Friday - 20 days before the
first workers were needed. But the Labor Department had not yet made a final
decision.

"We contemplated that if Pero Farms made changes in the clearance order, we
might certify a certain number of workers," Goodman said. "But we were still in
the midst of the recruitment process and we never reached that point."

Before farms can get approval to import offshore workers, the Labor Department
requires that they publicize their jobs and actively recruit workers in the
United States.

Labor advocates had questioned whether Pero Farms was making enough of an effort
to recruit domestic farm workers. Individual workers and crew leaders in Belle
Glade, Homestead and Immokalee had expressed interest in the jobs, but
relatively few were interviewed, they said.

Pero Farms said it advertised the jobs, but farm workers generally do not have
access to mainstream U.S. media. Most of the workers who sought employment heard
about the jobs only after farm labor advocates publicized them in farm worker
communities.

"Even with Pero Farms' half-hearted recruitment, there was a lot of interest in
the jobs," said Greg Schell, an attorney with the Migrant Farm Worker Justice
Proj-ect in Belle Glade. "Real recruitment clearly would have produced enough
people for the jobs."

It is not clear whether farm workers who were interviewed for the Pero Farms
jobs as part of the H-2A process will still be offered employment.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              312 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 6, 1997, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

WORK TO FIND WORKERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 502 words


Evidently, it's not hard to find legal United States residents in South Florida
who are willing to do farm work. All you have to do is look.

A month ago, Pero Family Farms west of Delray Beach received federal permission
to bring in 370 foreign workers for fields in Palm Beach, Martin, Collier,
Hendry, St. Lucie and Okeechobee counties. No Florida vegetable grower has used
the federal program, known as H2A, for 30 years, but farmers had complained
recently about the difficulty of getting workers.

One obvious factor has been stepped-up enforcement by the Border Patrol. Since
Oct. 1, agents have caught 1,750 illegal immigrants on their way to work in
Florida fields, 211 of them in June alone. An April raid in Palm Beach County
netted 254 workers. "We've increased our efforts substantially," said Art
Bullock, patrol agent in charge of the West Palm Beach office.

Before the foreign workers could be brought in, however, Pero Farms had to go
through the motions of trying to hire U.S. residents, which was hampered by what
farm-worker advocates felt were insufficient publicity and unreasonable
restrictions. Newspapers and English-language radio stations are hardly the best
way to reach people who don't read or don't speak English.

At first, applicants who could not document 29 days of experience were turned
away, according to Sandra Unruh of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in
Belle Glade. Also, workers were required to average 180 to 200 buckets of
peppers a day on the first harvest, a rate termed impossible by Greg Schell of
the farmworker group.

Yet willing workers evidently showed up, largely because groups such as the
justice project told them of the jobs. Ten were on hand for the first day of
interviews in Belle Glade. "I need (a job)," said an unemployed South Bay woman.
"I don't care (where), as long as I work." Within a month, Pero Farms had
withdrawn its H2A application.

"Even with Pero Farms' half-hearted recruitment, there was a lot of interest,"
Mr. Schell said. "Real recruitment clearly would have produced enough people for
the jobs."

Farmers have been reluctant to use H2A because of the costs. They must pay the
imported workers $ 6.36 an hour and provide housing and transportation from
their home country. Workers hired on the open market can be paid at the federal
minimum wage of $ 4.25 an hour and must provide their own housing and
transportation.

Balanced against that is the control a farmer has under H2A. The threat of
deportation keeps workers in line. With other workers, there also is the threat
of deportation, but not at a time of the farmer's choosing. The work force could
be decimated in mid-harvest after a federal raid.

There is, of course, a third option that avoids both the extra costs of H2A and
the threat of deportation. The farmers could hire legal residents, some of whom
may need to get off welfare. Labor advocates insist there is no shortage of
legal workers, and Pero's experience seems to bear them out.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              313 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 18, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

THOMAS BROTHERS FARMS WANTS TO IMPORT 545 WORKERS

BYLINE: Michael Utley and Jennifer Peltz; Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 620 words


Thomas Brothers Farms Inc., based in suburban Boca Raton, wants to bring in 545
foreign laborers to pick vegetables in South Florida, including Palm Beach
County.

If the U.S. Department of Labor grants the request, Thomas Brothers would be the
first vegetable-growing operation in the state to employ so-called H-2A workers
since the 1960s.

The federal H-2A program - referring to a special visa status granted to foreign
workers - allows American farmers to import laborers if the growers can show
that there are not enough local workers to do the job.

In addition to Thomas Brothers, M&N Fruit Inc. of Dundee has submitted an
application to bring in 130 workers to pick oranges in Central Florida.

Thomas Brothers' application is the second this year from a Palm Beach
County-based farm.

In June, Pero Family Farms Inc. of Delray Beach applied to bring in 350 foreign
workers, then abruptly withdrew its request. A Pero Farms executive declined to
comment Wednesday.

Farm worker advocates object to the practice, arguing that it displaces domestic
workers and results in lower wages.

But farmers say they have little choice in a tight Florida farm labor market.
The situation has been made worse recently by federal immigration raids that
have resulted in the deportation of many undocumented workers.

''This is being done as a last resort,'' Thomas Brothers President John Thomas
said Wednesday. ''It's like the old saying goes, you've got to do what you've
got to do.''

Thomas Brothers has about 9,000 acres of farm land, making it one of the top 10
farming companies in the Southeast.

Greg Schell, an attorney with the Migrant Farm Worker Justice Project in Belle
Glade, said he believes there are plenty of available farm workers here. ''Our
experience is that this last-resort program often becomes a first resort,''
Schell said. ''These guys want access to foreign labor. They don't want to
improve their wages and working conditions'' to attract local workers.

As part of the process to obtain federal permission, Thomas Brothers interviewed
local workers Wednesday at the Belle Glade Job Service and Benefits Office.

More than 80 people showed up and were offered jobs, according to Schell, but
many of them were female. He said large farming operations generally prefer male
workers. ''We'll see if they actually hire these people,'' Schell said.

The interview process will continue for the next several days in Immokalee,
Homestead, Fort Myers and Wauchula. On Sept. 26, the Labor Department is
expected to decide whether enough local workers are available and, if not, how
many foreign workers may be imported.

Thomas Brothers submitted its H-2A application on Aug. 18, seeking foreign
workers to pick tomatoes, bell peppers, cucumbers, and eggplant at its farms in
Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Hendry and Collier counties.

The application states that the workers will be paid a guaranteed wage of at
least $ 6.36 an hour.

They can earn more under a per-piece system that compensates them for each
bucket of vegetables harvested.

South Florida's sugar cane industry previously was the largest user of the H-2A
program, but that ended in 1995 when all the sugar companies converted to
mechanical harvesting.

H-2A program

The federal program allows farmers to apply for permission to bring foreign
workers into the United States:

EMPLOYERS: Employers first must prove they were not successful recruiting
workers in the United States.

FOREIGN LABORERS: Workers may work only for the employer who brings them into
the country, and employers must provide them with housing.

WORKERS: Workers can do only the jobs described in the farmer's application.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              314 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 19, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

PERO FAMILY FARMS VIOLATED RULES IN RECRUITING WORKERS, STATE SAYS

BYLINE: Michael Utley; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 339 words


State officials have reached a preliminary conclusion that Pero Family Farms
Inc. violated employee recruitment procedures when it sought to import foreign
workers under a federal program.

Under the H-2A program, Delray Beach-based Pero Farms was required to interview
local workers and make every effort to hire them before tapping the foreign
labor market.

Officials with the Florida Department of Labor and Employment Security said Pero
Farms appears to have violated the regulations by ''failing to cooperate'' with
employment service agents who tried to find local workers for the company.

Pero Farms offered jobs to nine local workers, then failed to provide them with
the jobs, the department said in a preliminary report expected to be delivered
to the company on Monday.

Pero Farms will have 20 days to reply and seek a hearing to dispute the
allegations.

If a final determination is made that Pero Farms violated labor regulations, the
company would be barred from taking part in the H-2A program, said state Labor
Department attorney Francisco Rivera.

The state agency administers the H-2A program in Florida for the U.S. Department
of Labor.

In its report, the state Labor Department also said Pero Farms failed to
interview 52 eligible workers who had been referred by employment service
agents.

The state investigation of Pero Farms was prompted by a complaint filed by the
Migrant Farmworker Justice Project of Belle Glade.

''If people are going to use the employment system, they need to do so in good
faith,'' said Rebecca Schleifer, a project staff attorney who handled the
complaint.

In June, Pero Farms asked for federal permission to bring in 370 foreign
laborers, saying it could not find enough local workers to pick its vegetables.
After farm-worker advocates criticized the move, the company pulled its
application.

The H-2A program has drawn increased interest lately from vegetable farmers who
say they are having a hard time finding workers in Florida's tight labor market.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              315 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 30, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. REJECTS BID FOR FARM WORKERS

BYLINE: Michael Utley; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 229 words


 The federal government has denied a request by Thomas Brothers Farms Inc. to
import foreign workers to harvest vegetables.
   Thomas Brothers, based in suburban Boca Raton, can appeal the decision by the
U.S. Department of Labor. But President John Thomas said Monday he probably
won't appeal, even though he says he continues to believe there are not enough
qualified domestic farm laborers.
 ''We don't have near enough people,'' Thomas said. ''But if they say there are
enough, then I have to take their word for it.''
   American farmers can import workers under the federal H-2A program, but they
must first prove that there are not enough domestic laborers to do the job.
   Thomas Brothers - which sought workers to pick tomatoes, bell peppers,
cucumbers, and eggplant - was required to interview domestic candidates at
several South Florida locations. According to the labor department, enough
candidates showed up to fill the first 150 job openings covered in Thomas
Brothers' H-2A application, which guaranteed a wage of at least $ 6.36 an hour.
   ''Their application was denied,'' said Floyd Goodman, a certifying officer
with the labor department. Thomas Brothers will receive the letter today via
overnight mail, he said.
   Thomas Brothers asked to import a total of 545 foreign workers and only the
first 150 have been rejected.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              316 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 7, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

DEBATE BREWING OVER WHETHER GROWERS NEED FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: Michael Utley; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 582 words


As the South Florida harvest season approaches, vegetable growers and domestic
labor advocates are debating what would appear to be a simple question: Are
there enough workers to harvest this year's crop?

Many growers insist they desperately need to import foreign workers from Mexico
and elsewhere. But domestic labor advocates say there are plenty of people here
to do the job, arguing growers just want to exploit a cheap source of labor.

Much of the dispute in Palm Beach and surrounding counties revolves around
exactly what type of workers are available.

Growers say they prefer Hispanic males who have the experience and endurance to
perform ''back-breaking work.'' However, many of the people who have applied for
recent openings have been Haitian women.

And ''many of them are overweight women,'' John Thomas of Thomas Brothers Farms
Inc. said last week after losing a bid to bring in foreign workers. ''We cannot
rely on people who cannot do the job.''

The U.S. Labor Department last month denied an application by suburban Boca
Raton-based Thomas Brothers to bring in 150 foreign workers to pick vegetables
at its farms in Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Hendry and Collier counties.

Greg Schell, an attorney with the Migrant Farm Worker Justice Project in Belle
Glade, which opposes the use of foreign labor, criticized Thomas' remarks about
the Haitian women.

''You can't just say you're not going to hire these people,'' Schell said.
''Many of these women have experience in the fields and they can do the job.''

Schell said the grower community has launched a ''public relations campaign'' to
convince the public that there is a serious labor shortage, when in fact they
just want to take advantage of foreign workers.

It isn't just Thomas who is complaining. When the harvest season begins later
this month - and especially when it reaches its peak in December and January -
many farm owners are warning of a labor crisis.

''There are fewer workers every year,'' Gary Smigiel, general counsel of
Lantana-based Mecca Farms, said Monday. The company grows tomatoes, peppers,
cucumbers, squash and citrus in Palm Beach, Martin and Broward counties. ''We
find very few Americans who want to do this kind of work.''

''There is a consensus among a lot of industry people that there will be a
shortage this season,'' said Derrick Thomas, director of national affairs for
the Florida Farm Bureau Federation. ''We don't want to overrun the country with
illegals any more than anyone else, but you've got to have people to harvest the
crop.''

A major stumbling block in the debate is that no one seems to be able to produce
any reliable statistics on the availability of farm workers in South Florida.

Statewide farm-worker jobs have dropped from 90,600 in January 1992 to 67,000 in
January 1997. But that doesn't mean there aren't enough workers because farm
acreage has been declining steadily over the same time.

Domestic labor advocates, meanwhile, point to the unemployment figures in rural
counties as proof that there are more than enough workers available there. The
Washington-based Farmworker Justice Fund Inc. cites July unemployment figures
for Hendry County and St. Lucie County of 23.7 percent and 13.7 percent,
respectively, the two highest unemployment rates in the state.

''In fact, the only numbers that do exist show there is an over supply of farm
labor,'' said Bruce Goldstein, co-executive director of the Farmworker Justice
Fund.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              317 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 15, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

THOMAS FIELDS GO DOMESTIC

BYLINE: Michael Utley; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 261 words


Thomas Brothers Farms Inc. on Tuesday withdrew a request to import 545 foreign
vegetable pickers, following a wave of criticism from domestic labor advocates.

John Thomas, head of the suburban Boca Raton-based farming company, said he
canceled his federal labor application even though he is still worried that
there will be a serious shortage of workers this season.

''We withdrew it because we are being told there are three people available for
every job opening,'' said Thomas. ''I just hope that's right, because if it's
not, we'll have a real crisis to deal with.''

Last month, the U.S. Department of Labor denied Thomas' request to bring in 150
foreign workers, but no decision had been made on the remaining 395 workers
covered by the now-defunct application. The harvest season for Thomas Brothers
begins on Monday.

In recent months, farm owners and domestic labor advocates have been arguing
over whether there will be a sufficient labor supply to handle this year's
vegetable harvest. Farmers are warning of a severe shortage, prompted in part by
federal immigration raids that have resulted in the deportation of many
undocumented workers.

The Belle Glade-based Migrant Farmworker Justice Project led the charge in
finding domestic workers for Thomas Brothers. But many of the applicants were
women, and Thomas said he was concerned they wouldn't be able to handle the
''back-breaking'' work. Thomas said he is still unhappy about that issue.

''We're just going to have to try and get it done, even if they are all women,''
said Thomas.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              318 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 November 9, 1997, Sunday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

MIGRANT PROGRAM OFFERS HELP

BYLINE: LINDA STURGILL

SECTION: LIVING, Pg. 16D

LENGTH: 301 words


Question: I live in the western suburbs of Palm Beach County and have a neighbor
who is a migrant worker for one of the farms in the area. He is here with his
brother and has a wife and children back home.

He does speak a little English and has expressed a desire to get full time
employment and some day bring his family over. Can you suggest an agency that
can talk to him about his plans for the future?

Answer: The Adult Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker Program provides job training
opportunities (academic education, vocational training, English language
classes) and job placement assistance to farmworkers and their dependents to
obtain permanent, year-round employment outside of farm work.

Q: I am a middle school teacher at Carver Middle School in Delray Beach. I have
an Hispanic young man in one of my classes who I feel is an at-risk youth and
could benefit from some type of mentorship/leadership activities.

A: There are a few mentorship programs available throughout our county. One of
which is called ASPIRA Palm Beach. It is a national youth organization dedicated
to the educational and leadership development of minority, especially Latino,
youth. The program is fairly new to Palm Beach County and operates primarily in
West Palm Beach at this time. They work with kids ages 6-19 and currently
enrolled in school. For more information call (561) 802-5400, Ext. 57.

Where to Turn is provided by Center for Information and Crisis Services. It is
not intended to be an all-inclusive directory of community resources, and it is
recognized that in some given instances more than one agency provides assistance
for a given problem.

If you want to know more about where to turn for help with a particular need, or
know someone else who does, call CenterLine at 930-1234.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WHERE TO TURN

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              319 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 16, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

AG, LABOR CHIEFS BACK LIMITS ON FOREIGN FARM WORKERS

BYLINE: Michael Utley, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD


The nation's top agriculture and labor officials Wednesday defended the federal
government's restrictions on the hiring of foreign workers by American farmers.

Known as the H-2A program, the government's foreign labor rules are designed to
protect domestic workers while allowing farmers to hire foreigners when
Americans either aren't available or aren't willing to do the job. H-2A workers
are required to return to their home countries after their seasonal work is
finished.

In recent months, the H-2A program has come under fire from farmers in Florida
and elsewhere who say the process is too bureaucratic, time consuming and
expensive. Last summer, a so-called guest worker bill was introduced in Congress
that would make it easier for farmers to hire foreign labor.

''I don't think we need a new guest worker law to replace H-2A,'' said U.S.
Labor Secretary Alexis Herman, during a visit Wednesday to a farm worker housing
complex south of Homestead. ''We have workers who are available here.''

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, who is under pressure from agricultural
groups to attack H-2A, was less enthusiastic with his endorsement, but said, ''I
share her views.'' Herman and Glickman traveled to Homestead and Florida City
this week to meet with farm owners and laborers, who have been fighting over
wages, working conditions and other issues.

The H-2A program is particularly despised by growers in Palm Beach County, which
has been a major destination for H-2A workers. The flow of foreign laborers
slowed here in the mid-1990s when the sugar industry switched to mechanical
harvesting.

Last year, two local companies - Thomas Brothers Farms Inc. of suburban Boca
Raton and Pero Family Farms Inc. of Delray Beach - tried and failed to get OKs
for foreign workers through the program. The Labor Department rejected Thomas'
application, and Pero withdrew its paperwork after domestic labor advocates
attacked the request.

Animosity still runs high.

''The current H-2A program is very cumbersome, expensive and mostly unworkable
for Florida farmers,'' said Gary Smigiel of Lantana-based Mecca Farms Inc.,
which grows vegetables on 7,000 acres in Palm Beach, Martin and Broward
counties.

H-2A refers to a special visa status granted to foreign workers.

Also on Wednesday, Glickman announced that the USDA would provide more than $ 17
million to expand the Everglades Farmworker Village, a housing complex and
day-care center south of Homestead. On Tuesday, Herman unveiled an $ 11.8
million plan to convert buildings at the former Homestead Air Force Base into
dormitories, classrooms and recreational facilities.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              320 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 4, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

MIGRANT PROJECT ADDING 2 LAWYERS;
GROUP FIGHTS HIRING OF FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: Michael Utley, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: BELLE GLADE


 The nonprofit Migrant Farmworker Justice Project is adding two lawyers to
tackle a growing number of labor disputes, including the controversy surrounding
attempts by local farmers to import foreign workers.
   The additions, announced Wednesday, will boost the project's legal staff to
five from three. The group fiercely opposes the use of foreign workers and often
attacks Florida's $ 6 billion agriculture industry on labor, wage and safety
issues.
 "There's more work here than we can handle," said Greg Schell, head of the
Belle Glade-based farm-worker project, an arm of Florida Legal Services Inc.
   Both of the new positions are two-year fellowships, paid for by outside
donations.
   The two lawyers are Patrick Walsh, a graduate of New York's Fordham
University School of Law who now works for Kentucky Legal Services Inc., and Jim
Knoepp, a recent graduate of Los Angeles' Loyola Law School. Both are expected
to begin in September and be paid about $ 30,000 a year.
   Walsh's job, and 70 others like it throughout the nation, are being paid for
by a $ 4.5 million gift from financier George Soros and matching corporate
donations. Knoepp's job is paid for by a grant from New York-based Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, one of the world's largest law firms.
   Last year, the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project and other domestic labor
advocates successfully beat back several attempts by Florida farmers to bring in
workers from Mexico.
   The group, which operates on an annual budget of about $ 400,000, has
established itself as a powerful opponent of Florida fruit and vegetable
growers, such as John Thomas, president of Thomas Brothers Farms Inc. in
suburban Boca Raton. Thomas' attempt to import hundreds of foreign workers was
rejected by the U.S. Department of Labor in September after project attorneys
objected to it.
   With two new lawyers on staff, "We will be better able to serve people like
Mr. Thomas," said Schell, who has a penchant for sarcasm.
   "I don't have a problem with that," Thomas responded. "We're so busy on the
farm, we can't spend time worrying about these kinds of issues."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              321 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 25, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

FARM 'GUEST WORKER' PROGRAM FLAWED, SENATE PANEL TOLD

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The nation's foreign agricultural guest worker program is seriously flawed and
needs to be overhauled, a Senate panel was told Wednesday, but there was sharp
disagreement over how it should be changed.

''If we keep the current system in place, we will put American jobs at risk,''
said Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., the lead witness before the Senate Immigration
subcommittee.

''Florida growers who are frustrated by the system are deciding to sell their
farmland and turn it over for development . . . (and) once there are houses on
top of what used to be citrus groves, the agricultural jobs are gone forever.''

Graham was joined by a bipartisan group of senators who told the subcommittee
that the foreign agricultural guest worker program - commonly known as H-2A - is
administratively cumbersome and does not serve the needs of farmers who need
quick access to cheap labor.

The result in some cases is that crops cannot be harvested and that an estimated
600,000 undocumented foreign workers are employed in agriculture, many with
forged documents.

Congress is considering several bills that would create a new program to bring
in about 20,000 to 25,000 foreign agricultural guest workers annually to the
United States. The program would have fewer restrictions on housing, salary,
working conditions and in documenting the need for foreign workers than the H-2A
program.

Graham has been working with Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., on an alternative bill that
would streamline the H-2A program and create several computerized regional
registries that would operate as clearinghouses for farmers seeking workers.

Graham's proposal would give first preference for jobs to American workers or
legal residents, after which jobs could be filled by foreign guest workers. He
said he expects to file the bill next month.

Only four workers in Florida - out of the thousands of foreign workers on
Florida farms - are employed under H-2A this year, Graham told the panel. A few
years ago, the number exceeded 5,000.

''Clearly, the implication of that is that this system is broken,'' Graham said.

Walter Kates, director of labor relations for the Florida Fruit and Vegetable
Association, told the panel the system is so badly flawed it should be scrapped
and replaced with a new program.

''This past season is the first time in recent memory that crops were actually
left in the fields because of a lack of workers,'' Kates said. ''We have had
reports from all across the state that not only are growers abandoning fields
because of the labor shortage, but several growers have cut back on their
plantings because of the fear of not having a sufficient labor supply to harvest
the crop.''

Kates provided the panel with written testimony arguing that Florida growers
could not afford the benefits and salary guarantees required by the H-2A program
and still remain competitive.

But Robert A. Williams, director of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project for
Florida Legal Services Inc., argued there is no reason for a new guest worker
program ''because there is no farm worker shortage in the United States.''

Williams said creating a new program would result in a reduction in wages and
working conditions for agricultural workers.

''They're proposing to replace a free labor work force with a captive labor work
force of guest workers'' who would not be able to look for jobs from other
employers or in other occupations.

Carlotta C. Joyner of the General Accounting Office told the panel that although
there are about 600,000 undocumented agricultural workers, there is not a
national shortage of agricultural workers.

But Leo C. Polopolus, professor emeritus in food and resource economics at the
University of Florida, argued the GAO study is flawed because it assumes the
government would be unable to significantly reduce the number of illegal
agricultural workers.

''If our immigration laws (were) enforced, there would indeed be a shortage in
U.S. agriculture,'' Polopolus said. ''It is highly unlikely that this deficiency
in farm workers could be recruited from the domestic work force.''

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              322 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    July 22, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

FARM BILL TOUTED AS AID TO WORKERS

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A bipartisan Senate coalition Tuesday introduced a bill to replace the
agricultural guest worker program with one that gives top priority to filling
jobs with domestic workers and streamlines the process for hiring foreign
workers.

"This is a win-win-win situation," said Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., suggesting the
bill would be good for farmers and growers, good for farm workers and good for
consumers.

But the bill, which has broad support from farm employers, was panned by farm
labor advocates.

"This is an act of almost unbelievable cynicism on Graham's part to pretend he
is part of a compromise between farm workers and farmers when the reality is he
is giving the growers everything they want and the farm workers nothing," said
Rob Williams, director of the Migrant Farmers Justice Project for Florida Legal
Services.

The bill, whose seven cosponsors include Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., would phase
out the existing H2A agriculture guest worker program. It would be replaced with
a program that provides a computerized registry of legal domestic farm workers.

Only after all available domestic workers within an area had been employed would
visas be issued for foreign agricultural workers. The waiting list for visas
would be reduced to 21 days from 60.

Farmers across the nation have long complained about the H2A program, as well as
severe domestic labor shortages and resulting crop losses. Thomas Brothers Farms
Inc. of suburban Boca Raton, one of the largest vegetable-growing operations in
the Southeast, said recently that it will lose nearly $ 2 million because it
can't find enough workers to pick its cucumbers, tomatoes and peppers.

Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., said eight major worker protection policies sought by
farm workers are included in the bill, including provisions to raise workers'
salaries and eliminate the incentive to hire foreign workers for whom payroll
taxes are not withheld.

Wyden acknowledged that some farm worker advocates oppose the bill, hoping for a
"workers' utopia . . . but we have to deal with the real world to make life
better for workers and growers."

The bill would eliminate the adverse effect wage rate set by the Labor
Department and replace it with a wage rate of at least the minimum wage or 5
percent above the average prevailing wage in the area.

Williams said the impact of the wage change would be to pay lower wages and
"bring in farm workers for less wages than they do now."

The bill also would eliminate the requirement that growers provide housing for
guest workers. Instead, it would allow them to give workers a voucher to help
them pay for housing.

Frank Curiel, Florida director of the United Farm Workers of America, said the
union opposes any tampering with the H2A program.

"We're opposed to anything dealing with H2A. I feel like somebody is trying to
put something over on me."

Graham said he hopes "we will have the support of all the groups that will
benefit" from the bill.


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              323 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 24, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SENATE PASSES FARM WORKER PLAN

BYLINE: Larry Lipman, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Moving with unusual speed, the Senate agreed Thursday to a plan to replace the
current agricultural guest worker program with one that gives top priority to
filling jobs with domestic workers.

The Senate action came on an amendment offered by Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Ore., and
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., to the Commerce-State-Justice departments
appropriations bill. The amendment was adopted 68-31 and the entire bill later
passed 99-0.

The bill now heads to a conference with the House, which did not include the
guest worker plan in its version. Graham and Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., voted in
favor of the amendment and the bill.

''I am pleased that we won this important victory on the Senate floor, but the
real winners are the individuals who work hard to feed families in Florida, the
United States and around the world,'' Graham said. ''They deserve an
agricultural labor program that gives farmers access to a quality, legal work
force and improves wages and benefits for farm workers.''

Organizations representing Florida growers and farmers endorsed the bill while
those representing farm workers have objected to it, warning that it will result
in a reduction in farm workers' wages.

The guest worker provision would phase out the existing H2A agriculture guest
worker program over five years and replace it with a computerized registry of
legal domestic farm workers.

Visas would be issued for foreign agricultural workers only after all available
domestic workers within an area had been employed. The waiting list for visas
would be reduced from 60 days to 21 days.

The bill would eliminate the current wage rate set by the Labor Department and
replace it with a wage rate of the higher of the minimum wage or 5 percent above
the average prevailing wage in the area.

The bill also would eliminate the requirement that growers provide housing for
guest workers. Instead it would allow them to give workers a voucher to help
them pay for housing.

The existing program has been widely criticized as bureaucratically cumbersome
and unable to meet the needs of growers to obtain legal workers when needed. A
recent General Accounting Office study estimated there were at least 600,000
agricultural workers in the United States who are not in this country legally.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              324 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 2, 1998, Monday, FINAL EDITION

LEGISLATION OVER FOREIGN FARM LABOR ISN'T DEAD, MERELY STALLED

BYLINE: Julie Waresh

SECTION: INSIDE BUSINESS, Pg. 5, AGRICULTURE

LENGTH: 729 words


Changes proposed for the federal program that allows U.S. farmers to import
foreign workers never made the final budget bill, which passed on Oct. 21.

But the effort to amend the H-2A program is by no means dead.

The bill's sponsors, which include Florida's U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, will
brainstorm until the Senate reconvenes in January about how to revive it, a
Graham staffer said last week.

At issue are the requirements farmers must meet to bring in H-2A workers, who
are granted temporary agricultural visas if the government finds there are not
enough domestic workers to do a job.

The amendment sought to ease the strict recruitment and wage regulations. Among
other things, it also would have allowed farmers to give foreign workers a
housing "allowance" rather than providing them with housing, as the law now
requires.

Farm-worker advocates and union representatives opposed the bill on a number of
fronts, including the housing issue. They also said that if there truly were a
shortage of farm labor, wage rates would have risen - but they've actually
declined in real terms over the past decade.

"This is the worst piece of legislation for farm workers in 35 years," said Greg
Schell, a Belle Glade-based lawyer and farm-workers advocate.

Proponents, including Florida Citrus Mutual, the state's largest grower trade
organization, say the current H-2A program is too bureaucratic.

Since sugar growers began using machines to harvest cane in 1995, few Florida
farmers have used the program. In 1997, only four H-2A workers were employed in
Florida, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.

Last year, Thomas Brothers Farms Inc. of suburban Boca Raton and several other
area farms tried to bring in hundreds of H-2A workers to harvest vegetables. But
their applications were denied or withdrawn.

The Florida Department of Labor and the U.S. General Accounting Office have
since concluded that there is no labor shortage in South Florida or the nation.

But that's not likely to stop the push to reform the program.

"I don't think the issue is going to drop off anybody's radar screen," the
Graham staffer said.

AVOIDING THE LABEL: Owners of area groves that sell fresh-squeezed juices are
scrambling to apply for extensions on this week's government-imposed deadline
for putting health-warning labels on their unpasteurized products.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which had ordered makers of unpasteurized
citrus juices to label products by Thursday, agreed late last month to consider
eight-month extensions on a case-by-case basis.

"I just got the paper work regarding all of it," Barbara Dwyer, one of the
owners of Knollwood Groves, said last week.

Knollwood, which has 30 acres off Lawrence Road in Boynton Beach, is working on
a plan that lays out procedures for keeping the product safe, Dwyer said.

But she expects to have a better idea of what the FDA is looking for after a
Nov. 12 meeting the agency has scheduled with growers and industry
representatives in Lake Alfred.

In the meantime, Dwyer said she'll apply for an extension.

The FDA said it will extend the deadline for producers that prove they will use
the extra time to come up with ways to reduce the bacteria in juice.

The health-warning requirement, in place since Sept. 8 for apple-juice
producers, was prompted by a 1996 death from tainted apple juice.

Representatives of the fresh citrus-juice industry have protested the
requirement, saying that citrus juice is safe and the FDA has not released rules
producers can follow to avoid having to use the labels.

LOANS AVAILABLE: The federal Farm Service Agency is offering disaster assistance
loans to eligible family farmers in 24 Florida counties, including Palm Beach,
Martin, St. Lucie and Hendry counties.

Farmers who sustained physical and production losses as a result of Hurricane
Georges' September march by Florida may be eligible.

The program, which offers loans of up to $ 500,000, is limited to family-owned
farms. Farmers may apply at regional FSA locations, including offices in Belle
Glade, Clewiston, Okeechobee and Fort Pierce.

For information, contact Bill Miller at (561) 996-7900.

Julie Waresh writes about agriculture and trade. Write her at The Palm Beach
Post, P.O. Box 24700, West Palm Beach, 33416-4700. (561) 820-4577. email:
waresh@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                   Copyright 1998 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              325 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               March 11, 2000, Saturday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SIMON PUSHES FOR END TO ILLITERACY

BYLINE: Ron Hayes, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


Paul Simon, the former U.S. senator from Illinois, got a standing ovation
Friday, but the longest and loudest applause went to Laura Calderon, a former
migrant worker from Pahokee.

Simon had come to The Breakers' Venetian Ballroom to address 550 guests at the
annual Love Of Literacy luncheon sponsored by the Palm Beach County Literacy
Coalition.

But first Calderon, a Mexican immigrant, rose to read a personal essay
expressing how important the coalition's Belle Glade classes have become to her
and her daughter, Diana.

When his turn came, Simon praised Calderon's commitment to learning English,
then underscored the size of the problem.

As chief sponsor of the National Literacy Act, he had hoped to eliminate
illiteracy in the U.S. by 2000, Simon noted.

And yet 23 million adult Americans still can't read a newspaper or fill out an
employment form.

"Show me an area of high unemployment, and I'll show you high alcohol and drug
abuse, often tied to issues of literacy and education," Simon promised.

In his home state of Illinois, he said, the state budget had increased 228
percent in the past 20 years.

But while money for education had risen 180 percent in that time, the budget for
prison construction had jumped 804 percent.

"Imagine you're an ex-con who can't read or write," he said. "How do you get a
job?"

In the 1996 presidential election, Simon noted, only 49 percent of eligible
voters went to the polls, the lowest turnout since 1924, and almost certainly
aggravated by literacy problems.

Before his speech, Simon met with reporters to reflect on the political lessons
he learned during 23 years in Congress.

Simon, a liberal Democrat, praised Republican John McCain's crusade for campaign
finance reform.

"I enjoyed policy-making, and even campaigning," Simon said. "But not fund
raising. There's something demeaning about it, and any candidate who says the
big contributors don't expect something in return isn't telling the truth."

The success of George W. Bush and Al Gore in the presidential primaries have
made the vote in both Florida and Illinois irrelevant, Simon said, but he
defended the process.

"In small states like Idaho and New Hampshire, the candidates are still forced
to do retail politics," he said. "They've still got to go into individual homes
and sell themselves. If we had a national primary, all we'd have are airport
press conferences and television ads."

* ron_hayes@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W, Paul Simon (mug) (Photo did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              326 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 13, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

HOUSE PANEL TO WEIGH BILL ON FOREIGN FARM WORKERS

BYLINE: Julie Waresh, , Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 428 words


Efforts to change the federal law that allows U.S. farmers to import foreign
workers are gearing up again, this time with legislators moving to create an
entirely new program.

The existing law, called the H-2A program, lets companies bring in temporary
foreign workers if there are too few domestic workers to do a job.

Growers have long argued the H-2A program is too expensive and time-consuming.
Local sugar firms used foreign cane cutters before switching to mechanical
harvesting in the mid-1990s, but no South Florida growers are using H-2A workers
today.

In a bill set for hearing Thursday, lawmakers, including co-sponsors Rep. Mark
Foley, R-West Palm Beach, and Rep. Robert Wexler, D-Boca Raton, have proposed a
new law that would make it easier and cheaper for growers to use foreign labor.

The proposal, called H-2C, would remove a requirement that foreign workers be
paid the average statewide farm labor rate and allow for rates that would vary
by crop. That average, set by the federal government based on U.S. Department of
Agriculture surveys, is $ 7.25 an hour in Florida.

"Of course, they want to pay less than the average," said Rob Williams, director
of the Belle Glade-based Migrant Farmworker Justice Project for Florida Legal
Services.

The proposal also would allow farmers to give foreign workers a housing
"allowance" of about $ 4 a day rather than providing them with free housing, as
the law now requires.

Sen. Bob Graham, a Florida Democrat, has proposed an almost identical law for
several years running. But his latest offering includes a provision allowing
long-term farm workers to gain permanent resident status by committing to
agricultural work in five of the next seven years. The House proposal is lacking
that provision, an element supported by the Florida Fruit & Vegetable
Association, a statewide grower trade group.

Farm-worker advocates oppose both bills, saying they remove what few protections
exist for exploitable foreign workers.

The new bill, of which Rep. Richard Pombo, R-Calif., is the primary sponsor, is
scheduled to be heard in the House subcommittee on immigration Thursday; the
Graham bill was heard in the Senate subcommittee last month.

Josh Rogin, press secretary for co-sponsor Wexler, said the congressman supports
amendments to the bill that would provide resident status to long-term farm
workers already in the country.

"He feels he will have more success advocating for these types of amendments if
he is a sponsor of the bill," Rogin said.

julie_waresh@pbpost.com


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 B&W, 1. BILL BACKERS: Florida U.S. Reps. Mark Foley, a
Republican, (left) and Robert Wexler, a Democrat, support revisions to the
foreign worker law. 2. Robert Wexler (mug

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              327 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 25, 2000, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

GIVE 'GUEST' WORKERS MORE FRIENDLY WELCOME

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 448 words


Florida is always looking for new ideas to improve the shameful conditions its
farm workers have endured for decades. The latest plan comes from the U.S. House
and would delete the requirement that growers provide workers free housing,
decrepit as it may be. Instead, the new proposal would allow farmers to pay
their laborers about $ 4 a day as a housing allowance.

A whole $ 4 - that captures the tortured state of the congressional reform
movement. It seeks to overhaul the existing H-2A agricultural guest workers
program that permits companies to bring in temporary foreign workers when
domestic workers can't be found. The House and Senate each has a plan. In the
House version, called H-2C and cosponsored by Reps. Mark Foley, R-West Palm
Beach, and Robert Wexler, D-Boca Raton, growers would no longer be required to
pay workers a rate based on a statewide average, currently $ 7.25 an hour. The
rate would instead vary by the crop, and often be less.

Bob Graham, D-Fla., has been a longtime sponsor of a similar measure in the
Senate. The most significant difference in his approach is a provision that
would allow laborers to gain permanent U.S. resident status by working 150 days
annually in five of seven years. Sen. Graham wants the Department of Labor to
create a computer registry to keep track of the foreign labor pool. He says his
bill would ensure a steady supply of field help and the hiring of legitimate,
documented employees.

About 600,000 foreign farm workers are here illegally, though their presence is
essential to putting food on our tables. The domestic labor pool has better
things to do in a robust economy than work 12-hour days doing backbreaking work
in the summer heat for $ 7 or less an hour.

Both the House and Senate bills suffer the same identity crisis. They talk of
reform for workers, but really they codify an oppressive system for the benefit
of growers. Migrant laborers would be paid less, receive fewer benefits and
would lose what little leverage they have in trying to negotiate better deals.

"The growers want this because it would give them tremendous power and control
over guest workers," said Bruce Goldstein of the Farmworker Justice Fund.

One of the prized incentives in Sen. Graham's plan, permanent residency, is a
dubious promise. Farm work is intermittent by nature, and many migrants could
not accumulate enough days to qualify. The Labor Department, meanwhile, says the
computer registry is not feasible.

But forget about computers and congressional lawmakers. Apply only the test of
common sense when evaluating these so-called reforms: Where exactly would you
house your family for $ 4 a day?


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2000 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              328 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 14, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

WELFARE REFORM HURTS FLA., CHILES SAYS

BYLINE: BRIAN E. CROWLEY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 534 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Floridians could wind up spending as much as $ 300 million to make up for
federal benefits being taken away from legal immigrants, Gov. Lawton Chiles said
Wednesday.

"It's going to be a very, very terrible situation in the next six months if we
don't get some relief from this Congress," Chiles said at a luncheon for
political activists.

An estimated 100,000 legal immigrants in Florida are losing Supplemental
Security Income benefits, known as SSI, because of the welfare reforms approved
by Congress last year and signed by President Clinton.

Chiles, who supports welfare reform, says this particular policy is onerous
because these immigrants "came to our shores under the color of our federal
policies."

The SSI program largely benefits the very poor elderly and the disabled. Chiles
argues that state and local governments should not be expected to carry the
burden of caring for these people without some financial help from the federal
government.

"We don't have the money," Chiles said. "I don't know where we would get it."

He said the SSI program enables many of the elderly to remain at home. Cutting
off these payments, which average $ 410 a month, would force many of these
people to move into nursing homes or to become "homeless people wandering our
streets."

Clinton and some congressional leaders have expressed a willingness to look at
ways of delaying the program so that some of the elderly could become citizens,
but overall there is little sympathy for allowing legal immigrants to remain in
federal programs.

A complete policy reversal by Congress would be expensive. The welfare reform
package is intended to save more than $ 56 billion over seven years. Eliminating
benefits for legal immigrants saves $ 13.3 billion, nearly one-quarter of the
entire welfare reform.

U.S. Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, a leading architect of welfare
reform, has said he is willing to help legal immigrants who are close to gaining
citizenship but he is not interested in wholesale reform of the program.

Chiles also made stops at two Palm Beach County schools.

At Berkshire Elementary School in West Palm Beach, Chiles met with a group of
mothers who participate in the state's "Healthy Kids" program that provides
health care to uninsured young children.

"This is a wonderful program," Marena Dadan, a single mother of two small
children told Chiles. "I pay $ 20 a month for both my children. It keeps me out
of Medicaid because I can afford this. This is the best, I thank you."

At Woodlands Middle School west of Lantana, Chiles briefly participated in a
panel discussion about safety in schools. Among those attending was Linda Kamel,
the stepmother of John Kamel, a 14-year-old student who was shot and killed at
Conniston Middle School by another 14-year-old.

Encouraging students and parents not to give up, Kamel said, "I plead that you
love and take care of each other. Don't let this become just another page in
your life."

Chiles said he was very moved by Kamel's statement and the death of her stepson.
"It's a terrible tragedy and I hope that people will listen to her and try to
help make sure that these kinds of things never happen."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE NEWS / Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              329 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 10, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

DON'T LET BUREAUCRACY CUT OFF BENEFITS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 194 words


The Social Security Administration is notifying more than a half-million poor,
aged and disabled, legal United States residents that they will lose their
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits in five or six months unless they
become American citizens.

In a classic Catch-22 situation, in many major urban areas it now takes nine
months or longer to process citizenship applications because of backlogs created
by new applicants for naturalization, the time needed to complete background
checks and the Immigration and Naturalization Service's longstanding computer
problems.

It is wrong to penalize potential citizens because of government's failure.
Congress should require that legal immigrants receiving SSI whose citizenship
forms have not been processed because of insufficient government resources
should be able to retain benefits while their applications are pending.

It would be perverse to penalize vulnerable people not because of anything they
have done, but because of what the government cannot get done in a timely
manner.

Jack M. Karako, executive director

American Jewish Congress, Southeast

Region

North Miami Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), GREG LOVETT/1996 STAFF FILE PHOTO, About 3,000 immigrants
are sworn in as citizens in an Aug. 18 ceremony at the James L. Knight Center in
Miami. Undocumented aliens have crowded immigration offices and marriage bureaus
around the nation in recent months to apply for citizenship before tougher laws
took effect.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              330 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 2, 1997, Friday, FINAL EDITION

OK ON BENEFITS EXTENSION RAISES ADVOCATES' CONCERNS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 235 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A Senate plan to help elderly and disabled legal immigrants would give Wyoming $
8,333 for each of its affected residents while states such as Texas and Florida
would receive less than $ 300 per immigrant.

The policy is intended to provide two months of payments to elderly and disabled
immigrants whose aid will be cut off Aug. 1 under the new welfare law. Some
members of Congress are working on a longer-term plan to restore the benefits
under the new federal budget that will begin Oct. 1.

The Senate's stopgap plan, scheduled for a vote next week, would provide $ 125
million in block grants to the states for two months. Critics said the plan
contains about half of the money that is needed and distributes the money
unevenly by guaranteeing each state a minimum of $ 250,000, no matter how many
immigrants are affected by the welfare law.

Wyoming, which would receive $ 250,000, is home to about 30 immigrants who will
lose benefits Aug. 1. Texas, Florida and other high-immigrant states are
guaranteed at least $ 725,000 in block grants, plus more based on the percentage
of immigrants in their populations.

Each of the 39,440 affected immigrants in Florida would receive $ 294 for the
two months. The formula would give each of the 32,410 affected immigrants in
Texas an average of $ 281 for the two months, less than half of the average $
724 that each immigrant currently receives.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              331 of 331 DOCUMENTS

                       Palm Beach Post (Florida) florida)

             February 14, 1997 Friday friday FINAL EDITION edition

WELFARE REFORM HURTS FLA., CHILES SAYS says

BYLINE: BRIAN E. CROWLEY, Palm Beach Post Political Editor editor

SECTION: LOCAL, local, Pg. 8B 8B

LENGTH: 537 words words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH beach


Floridians could wind up spending as much as $300 million to make up for federal
benefits being taken away from legal immigrants, Gov. Lawton Chiles said
Wednesday.

"It's going to be a very, very terrible situation in the next six months if we
don't get some relief from this Congress," Chiles said at a luncheon for
political activists.

An estimated 100,000 legal immigrants in Florida are losing Supplemental
Security Income benefits, known as SSI, because of the welfare reforms approved
by Congress last year and signed by President Clinton.  clinton.

Chiles, who supports welfare reform, says this particular policy is onerous
because these immigrants "came to our shores under the color of our federal
policies."

The SSI program largely benefits the very poor elderly and the disabled. Chiles
argues that state and local governments should not be expected to carry the
burden of caring for these people without some financial help from the federal
government.

"We don't have the money," Chiles said. "I don't know where we would get it."

He said the SSI program enables many of the elderly to remain at home. Cutting
off these payments, which average $410 a month, would force many of these people
to move into nursing homes or to become "homeless people wandering our streets."

Clinton and some congressional leaders have expressed a willingness to look at
ways of delaying the program so that some of the elderly could become citizens,
but overall there is little sympathy for allowing legal immigrants to remain in
federal programs.

A complete policy reversal by Congress would be expensive. The welfare reform
package is intended to save more than $56 billion over seven years. Eliminating
benefits for legal immigrants saves $13.3 billion, nearly one-quarter of the
entire welfare reform.

U.S. Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, a leading architect of welfare
reform, has said he is willing to help legal immigrants who are close to gaining
citizenship but he is not interested in wholesale reform of the program.

Chiles also made stops at two Palm Beach County schools.

At Berkshire Elementary School in West Palm Beach, Chiles met with a group of
mothers who participate in the state's "Healthy Kids" program that provides
health care to uninsured young children.

"This is a wonderful program," Marena Dadan, a single mother of two small
children told Chiles. "I pay $20 a month for both my children. It keeps me out
of Medicaid because I can afford this. This is the best, I thank you."

At Woodlands Middle School west of Lantana, Chiles briefly participated in a
panel discussion about safety in schools. Among those attending was Linda Kamel,
the stepmother of John Kamel, a 14-year-old student who was shot and killed at
Conniston Middle School by another 14-year-old.

Encouraging students and parents not to give up, Kamel said, "I plead that you
love and take care of each other. Don't let this become just another page in
your life."

Chiles said he was very moved by Kamel's statement and the death of her stepson.
"It's a terrible tragedy and I hope that people will listen to her and try to
help make sure that these kinds of things never happen." happen."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH english

NOTES:
STATE NEWS / Ran all editions.  editions.

                Copyright 1997 Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.  inc.
