
                               1 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 15, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

JUDGE HALTS CALIF. IMMIGRANT LAW

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 182 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Declaring that California's Proposition 187 raises serious constitutional
questions, a federal district court judge Wednesday barred most key portions of
the measure from taking effect until a decision is reached in a trial to
determine the constitutionality of the sweeping illegal immigration ballot
initiative.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer enjoined sections of the initiative banning
illegal immigrants from public elementary and secondary school education, social
welfare and non-emergency health care services.

''The loss of medical services for illegal aliens could result in greater health
risks for the general population,'' said Pfaelzer. Opponents had said the
measure would prohibit illegal immigrants from receiving immunizations or
non-emergency treatment for such deadly diseases as tuberculosis.

Pfaelzer also barred implementation of a portion of the measure calling for law
enforcement officers to seek to verify the legal status of all people arrested
and to notify those suspected of illegal status that they must become legal or
leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Los Angeles Times

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               2 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 8, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO EXPAND EFFORTS IN 7 STATES TO FIND ILLEGAL WORKERS, EMPLOYERS

BYLINE: MICHELE KAY

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal immigration and labor inspectors will step up efforts in seven states,
including Florida, to ferret out illegal immigrants at garment factories,
restaurants, hotels, farms and construction sites, U.S. officials said Tuesday.

Labor Secretary Robert Reich said his agency hoped to hire an additional 186
inspectors in 1996, a 25 percent increase. In addition, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service plans to add 365 investigative personnel. These
inspectors will identify and prosecute employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants and offer them ''squalid wages and working conditions,'' Reich said.

''We will not tolerate sweatshops. We're going after employers,'' Reich said.

He was speaking at a White House news conference shortly after President Clinton
signed a memorandum ordering all federal agencies to work together to stop the
flow of illegal immigration.

Maria Echaveste, administrator of the Labor Department's wage and hour division,
said the administration was asking Congress for $ 93 million for immigration
enforcement in 1996, with the bulk going toward additional staff. That sum is
part of the $ 1 billion Clinton has asked Congress to allocate to the nation's
efforts to curb illegal immigration.

In 1994, 1,400 employers nationwide were fined a total of $ 11 million by Labor
and INS inspectors for knowingly employing illegal aliens.

''People come to the United States to work and not to collect welfare,''
Echaveste said. ''They are desperate for jobs, and not only are they exploited
and abused, but the wages of legal workers are undermined.

''You go to South Texas and you find someone who harvests onions. One year he is
getting $ 1.50 for a 5-gallon bucket. The next year he is still getting $ 1.50,
but it's for a 6-gallon bucket,'' she said.

Most of the abuse occurs in Florida, Texas, Arizona, California, Illinois, New
York and New Jersey, Reich said. The garment, restaurant and hotel, agriculture
and construction industries are the worst offenders, he added.

The Clinton administration also gave its stamp of approval Tuesday to a proposal
by former U.S. Rep. Barbara Jordan to test a nationwide register that would make
it easier for employers to check the immigration status of job seekers.

Deputy INS Commissioner Chris Sale said the administration was asking Congress
for $ 28 million to complete a pilot program in five states.

Jordan had been criticized by civil rights group who fear the register will
resemble a national identification card. Jordan sent President Clinton a letter
released Tuesday thanking him for supporting her proposals.

Attorney General Janet Reno said critics of the Jordan proposal don't understand
it.

''It's a pilot project to test what can work,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               3 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 6, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

STOP ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS BY JAILING THEIR EMPLOYERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 91 words


To stop illegal immigration, legislation should be introduced to sentence any
employer caught hiring illegals to an automatic 10-year jail term and a $
100,000 fine per illegal worker. And with a hologram ID card for legal
immigrants, employers would hire only them to avoid jail.

Wasting billions on border patrols doesn't stop illegals. Put the onus on
employers. The jobs made available by removing illegal immigrants would be there
for people forced off welfare by proposed reforms. It's a better way.

Frank E. Dugan

Port Salerno

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               4 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 17, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

FARM WORKER ADVOCATES CHIDE FOLEY

BYLINE: WILLIAM HOWARD

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: GREENACRES


A spokesman for a farm worker advocacy group tangled with U.S. Rep. Mark Foley
Saturday over his support of legislation that would allow farmers to import
foreign laborers without having to prove a shortage of U.S. workers.

If the measure passes, temporary farm workers will do exactly what Foley has
complained of illegal immigrants doing in other fields - take jobs and drive
down wages for workers who are in the country legally, said attorney Greg Schell
of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Belle Glade.

Schell confronted Foley, R-West Palm Beach, at a meeting Foley had scheduled
with constituents Saturday morning at Greenacres Town Hall.

At the gathering, Foley said the federal government should crack down on illegal
immigration because undocumented workers take American jobs and cost taxpayers
millions for medical care and food stamps.

He advocated a toll-free phone number for employers to check the validity of
Social Security numbers and a constitutional amendment that would deny
citizenship to children born in the United States unless one of the child's
parents is in the country legally at the time of birth.

But Schell criticized Foley's support of an amendment to the immigration reform
bill that would allow farmers to hire imported farm laborers without the
labor-shortage certification requirements of the existing H-2A labor program.

Congress is expected to vote on the immigration reform package within the next
two weeks.

As originally proposed, American farmers would be able to bring in as many as
250,000 foreign workers on temporary work visas.

Foley said he will support a far smaller number, closer to the 19,000 brought in
last year, under the H-2A program.

''I think the number is going to get whittled down significantly in the next
week and a half,'' Foley said.

Foley, who serves on the Agriculture Committee, said farming companies such as
A. Duda & Sons have told him that they cannot find enough domestic workers to do
hard manual labor, such as hand harvesting vegetables.

''I'm not trying to increase illegal immigration,'' Foley said. ''But we need to
maintain some kind of guest worker program.''

But Schell said, ''There are two to three workers for every job. We don't need
more workers.''

Farmers have said they need temporary workers because immigration reform will
cause labor shortages.

Schell says one-fourth of the H-2A workers who come to the United States on
temporary visas never go home. He claims Florida farmers routinely hire
undocumented workers to avoid paying minimum wages and benefits and that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service rarely checks them.

Under the proposed guest worker program, Foley said 25 percent of the foreign
workers' wages would be set aside and released only when the workers return
home.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), Mark Foley (mug)

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               5 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 17, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BAIRD PAYS FINE FOR EMPLOYING ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, ARK.


Zoe Baird, President-elect Clinton's choice for attorney general, Saturday

paid $2,900 in fines levied by the Immigration and Naturalization Service

because she employed undocumented aliens in her home, transition officials

announced.

In a statement released as Clinton prepared to head to Charlottesville,

Va., to kick off his inaugural festivities, Communications Director George

Stephanopoulos declared the matter "now resolved."

He said Baird "deeply regrets the mistakes she has made in this matter."

He said Clinton maintains "complete confidence in Zoe Baird, whose

disclosures in this matter have been forthright from the beginning."

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph Biden Jr., D-Del., said in a

statement that the "matter must be placed in the context of Ms. Baird's

otherwise outstanding record. When viewed in this context, I expect her to be
confirmed."

Baird and her husband, Yale Law School Professor Paul Gewirtz, employed a
Peruvian couple who were in the United State illegally, violating an

immigration law that prohibits such hiring without proper working papers.

As attorney general, Baird would oversee the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, which -- according to the statement released Saturday --
had requested that Baird and Gewirtz pay the civil penalty.

An INS spokesman in Washington said Saturday that agency officials on

their own initiative decided to impose the fines late this week.

MORE QUESTIONS

* TREASURY Secretary-designate Lloyd Bentsen was invited in 1988 by a Texas

savings and loan operator to buy stock in a new company, The New York Times

reported today. For Bentsen, who met with federal regulators on the

businessman's behalf four months before he bought the stock, an investment of
$100,000 came to be worth at least $600,000 three years later. Bentsen's part in
the stock deal, which he has reported as required in financial disclosure

forms over the years, violated no laws.

* COMMERCE Secretary-designate Ron Brown earned up to $140,000 in `brokerage
fees' last year for helping to obtain local government contracts in various

cities for an Ohio-based firm that administers retirement plans for public

employees, according to documents. Brown's relationship with the retirement

plan administrator has become an issue in his confirmation as commerce

secretary, with Senate Republicans threatening to seek a delay in the process.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 22, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FOLEY WANTS PROBE OF WHITE HOUSE ROLE IN IMMIGRATION TOUR

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Rep. Mark Foley called Friday for hearings to find out if the White House played
a role in misleading congressmen touring immigration detention centers in Miami
last year.

Foley, who was on the tour, said the Clinton administration may have wanted to
show that illegal immigration was under tight control to silence congressmen who
were complaining about President Clinton's immigration policies.

The West Palm Beach Republican said an investigation of the tour could have more
"significant proportions" than Whitewater or the FBI files scandal.

"This is another problem that the Clinton administration is going to have to
explain," Foley said.

U.S. Justice Department investigators on Thursday said the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service transferred or released 149 undocumented immigrants from
the Krome Detention Center two days before the congressmen's visit. Some of
those released had criminal records or were not screened for communicable
diseases, the Justice Department said.

The INS also brought in officers on overtime to work at immigration checkpoints
at Miami International Airport to convince the congressmen that operations were
going smoothly.

"It was a ruse," said Foley, describing a "Disney World" atmosphere during the
June 10, 1995, tour at the detention center in southern Dade County.

'It was like visiting a movie set," Foley said. "Everyone was sitting in the
bunks neatly, floors were highly polished. It was just uncanny."

The Congressional Task Force on Immigration Reform went to Miami to gather
information for a report for House Speaker Newt Gingrich.

Foley said he will ask the House subcommittee on Immigration and Claims or the
House Task Force on Immigration Reform to conduct hearings on the staged tour
and subsequent refusals of INS Commissioner Doris Meissner and others to testify
before Congress.

Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., chairman of the task force, also is curious about
the White House role in setting up the 1995 tour, said a spokesman.

Foley said he doesn't understand why INS officials in Miami would want to
conceal crowded conditions but that the White House would have a strong motive.

"I would have to suggest that the administration is trying to say 'we have moved
a lot of (INS) people to Arizona and California and we can't make it look like
we've neglected a key state for an election,' " Foley said.

The INS announced Friday that four senior officials are being transferred to
non-supervisory jobs as a result of the Justice Department investigation. They
are Miami District Director Walter Cadman and his former deputy, Valerie Blake,
and Eastern Regional INS Director Carole Chasse and her deputy, Michael Devine.
Cadman, who was sent to work in Dallas, will be replaced by Houston INS Director
Robert Wallis.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE/REGIONAL NEWS / Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               7 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 22, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

FLA. LEGISLATOR: IMMIGRATION CRACKDOWN LIKELY

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 235 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


 Florida voters may face something like California's Proposition 187 to cut
social services to undocumented immigrants unless the legislature adopts some
restrictions on its own, says the chairwoman of the Palm Beach County
legislative delegation.
   Rep. Sharon Merchant said a likely effort will be to restrict driver licenses
and other forms of identification that are readily available to undocumented
immigrants.
 Merchant, R-Palm Beach Gardens, said reports about the social costs of taking
care of immigrants who enter the country illegally are causing more talk of
California's controversial proposition, which was approved by voters on Nov. 8.
The measure was recently put on hold by a California judge questioning its
constitutionality.
   ''If we don't address immigration in other ways, we'll have (Proposition
187),'' Merchant said.
   Merchant commented after some citizens complained to the Palm Beach County
legislative delegation meeting in Boca Raton Friday about illegal immigration.
   ''We've got to insist that the federal government do something about
immigration. And we've got to know what the costs are,'' said Jean Beer of
Delray Beach.
   Joan Peart, representing a group called Floridians for Immigration Control,
told the legislators that the state needs to identify the social services used
by undocumented immigrants and the costs to the state.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               8 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 24, 1994, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA'S NEXT APPEAL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 254 words


It was too much to hope that a U.S. district judge would rule for Florida in the
state's immigration lawsuit against the federal government. District courts
rarely plow new legal fields. Appeals courts do that. Therefore, Florida should
appeal.

Judge Edward Davis agreed that Florida is in ''desperate need of relief'' from
the social costs forced on the state by the national government's failure to
enforce laws against illegal immigration. Nearly everyone who looks at the issue
would agree. Judge Davis also said, however, that he can't find a ''legal
theory'' that allows him to force Washington to act.

California, Texas, Arizona and New Jersey have filed similar suits in other
federal court districts. Those cases are not controlled by the ruling in
Florida's case. The cases are so unusual that the states' best hope is the
Supreme Court. Getting one of the cases there should be a goal of all the
states.

The main goal is enforcement of laws against illegal immigration or, failing
that, reimbursement for costs the states incur from enforcement failures.
Florida calculates the cost at $ 1.5 billion for education, health care and
imprisonment. Californians' reckless effort to cut off illegals from all
services is likely leave them paying more for law enforcement and epidemic
control than they save elsewhere.

The answers are in Washington. If Congress seriously means to end ''unfunded
mandates'' - costs forced on states by federal action or, in this case, inaction
- here's a place to start.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                               9 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 11, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

GROUP WANTS AID TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CUT

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO


Echos of California's bitter Proposition 187 campaign filled a downtown street
Tuesday as a group calling itself Save Our State announced a similar movement to
reach Florida's ballot.

Save Our State leader Doug Guetzloe said he is forming a fund-raising committee
and will begin collecting signatures within two months for a referendum calling
for a limit on social services to illegal immigrants.

As Guetzloe met with California referendum leader Robert Kiley in a restaurant,
about 50 farmworkers, Haitian-Americans and others staged a noisy, sign-waving
protest outside.

''Proposition 187 created a lot of ugliness,'' said Samuel Lopez of Melbourne,
president of a labor rights group. ''All this will do is divide the people of
different cultures.''

Roman Rodriguez, representing the Farmworkers Association of Florida, said it
would be wrong to cut off education and medical care to undocumented immigrants
who work in agriculture.

''This is just inhuman. We shouldn't be talking about this,'' Rodriguez said.
Some farmworkers chanted slogans created for the California campaign, calling
California Gov. Pete Wilson a racist. Wilson supported the successful referendum
that would deny education, health care and social services to illegal
immigrants.

Inside, Guetzloe explained to about 30 backers that the wording of the Florida
ballot question has not been drafted. He said the ballot question should grant
undocumented workers time to become legal residents before losing access to
social services.

California's amendment had no grace period and was immediately stayed by the
federal courts.

Guetzloe, a political consultant whose firm last year represented net fishing
and casino gambling petitions, said he plans to collect signatures to trigger a
state Supreme Court review of the ballot question. To put the question on the
1996 ballot, 430,000 signatures of registered voters are required.

''It's going to take a tremendous grass-roots effort,'' Guetzloe told his
supporters, most from the Orlando area. He said he hopes to raise $ 1 million
for the referendum campaign, twice as much as Kiley raised in California.

David Ray, a field director for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
attended the meeting but withheld endorsement. Also absent were members of
Floridians for Immigration Control, a Delray Beach-based group that also is
withholding commitment.

''Maybe we need to do this referendum in Florida just so that Washington, D.C.,
gets the point,'' Ray said. ''If Proposition 187 wasn't sobering enough, perhaps
an initiative in Florida will make them wake up.''

Kiley advised the group to be prepared for a rough campaign.

''Once we got on the ballot, all hell broke loose,'' said the Yorba Linda
political consultant. ''They called us racists, white supremacists, Nazis and
heartless, the same words you are hearing today.''

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE/REGIONAL NEWS

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              10 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 26, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION REFORM WITHOUT HATRED

BYLINE: FRAN HATHAWAY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 647 words


Floridians are angry about the costs of illegal immigrants. But do we want the
ugliness that marked California's Proposition 187 debate last year?

When Gov. Chiles sued the federal government last April for the $ 1.5 billion
the state spent on education, health care, prison beds and other services used
by immigrants, most Floridians applauded, even though we knew it was mainly a
statement. In December, a federal judge dismissed the suit, saying immigration
is a political, not a legal, matter.

Last month, when a group calling itself Save Our State said that they would work
to put a referendum similar to California's Prop 187 on Florida's 1996 ballot, I
think the feeling was less enthusiastic. Such an initiative would cut off social
services to people in Florida who are in the country illegally.

And this month, U.S. Rep. Mark Foley's pledge to propose a constitutional
amendment on immigration left a sour taste. The amendment would require that at
least one parent of a baby born in this country be a U.S. citizen or legal
resident before the child automatically becomes a citizen. The 14th Amendment to
the Constitution says all people born or naturalized in the U.S. are citizens.
The West Palm Beach Republican would change that to ''all persons born to a
parent legally residing in the United States.''

America calls itself a nation of immigrants - usually with pride. Florida can
rightly call itself a state of immigrants, but our feelings are mixed. Yet
millions of us who call ourselves Floridians are immigrants, people who migrated
south for a better life. And thousands of Cubans who fled north in the 1960s now
are the nation's wealthiest minority, according to the Population Institute in
Washington.

The nonprofit Population Institute studies immigration issues worldwide.
Officials are acutely aware of their powder-keg nature. In a report released
Friday, ''Moving On: The Global Migration Phenomenon,'' they note the pressure
building on Congress to address U.S. immigration policies. They also point out
that the United States isn't the only industrialized country with potentially
volatile immigration problems. ''There is hardly a region of the world where
large internal and external flows of people do not occur,'' says institute
President Werner Fornos. ''Many situations are potentially explosive.''

The report says more people will immigrate to the U.S. during the 1990s than
during any other decade in history. In 1990, four states accounted for
two-thirds of all U.S. immigrants - California (33 percent), New York (14
percent), Florida (8 percent) and Texas (8 percent). Of 1993's 1.25 million
immigrants, at least 300,000 were illegal.

The increasing anger at illegal immigrants is part of the general turn toward
conservatism. Americans who feel they're working harder to make ends meet are
losing tolerance for those who don't support themselves. They feel bitterness
toward pregnant women who come here to give birth so the child is a U.S. citizen
and they qualify for Aid to Families with Dependent Children - ''welfare.''
That's understandable. Their tax dollars pay for it.

Still, isn't there a better way to discourage such abuses than a constitutional
amendment or a referendum that creates dangerous rancor between groups?

The most effective long-term approach to immigration is population control, the
Population Institute says. Americans need to champion - and help pay for - the
family planning agreements forged last September at the United Nations
Conference on Population and Development in Cairo.

Short-term, we're right to want our resources used wisely, and that may require
changes in immigration policy. But as we make them, I hope we'll look for a line
between prudent and punitive. We also need to remember what America means.

Fran Hathaway is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              11 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 5, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

BOCA GROUP TOUTS AMENDMENTS TO STEM FLOOD OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: ELIOT KLEINBERG

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 237 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


A group fighting what it calls ''out of control immigration'' wants to place
four constitutional amendments on Florida's 1996 ballot.

FLA-187, inspired by California's Proposition 187, announced the campaign
Thursday. The group Save Our State launched a similar effort Wednesday in
Tallahassee.

FLA-187 will be based in Boca Raton, executive director Rob Ross, a Pompano
Beach attorney, told supporters.

It formed after two women, Nancy Jacobs and JoAnn Peart, founded Floridians for
Immigration Control last year in Delray Beach, Ross said. Most of the 150
members have also joined FLA-187, officials said.

The proposed amendments would:

Bar illegal immigrants from using most social services.

Bar illegal immigrants from free public education. School districts would be
required to investigate the status of each student.

Require government documents and meetings be in English and bar any government
from declaring itself bilingual.

Require state and local governments to cooperate with federal immigration
agencies and turn in or pass along the identities of any illegal immigrants.

Some of the provisions have already been challenged in other state and federal
courts, said Robyn Blumner, executive director of the American Civil Liberties
Union's Florida chapter.

Each of the FLA-187 initiatives would need 450,000 signatures by Aug. 1, 1996 to
get into the Nov. 5, 1996 general election.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, Rob Ross, a Pompano Beach
attorney, explains FLA-187's proposed amendments. The group hopes to put four
amendments limiting immigrants' rights and the use of languages other than
English in government documents and meetings.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              12 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 29, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHILES PLANS TO SUE U.S. FOR COST OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 271 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Gov. Lawton Chiles said Tuesday he plans to sue the federal government to
reimburse the state for medical care, education and other services for illegal
aliens and refugees.

Chiles, a frequent critic of the government's immigration and naturalization
policies, asked Attorney General Bob Butterworth in a letter to help prepare the
suit.

``The purpose of this suit would be to require the strict enforcement of the
immigration and naturalization laws by the U.S. government and the full and
complete reimbursement to Florida for services and care rendered to illegal
aliens,'' Chiles' letter says.

Illegal aliens and political refugees from the Caribbean and Latin America cost
the state hundreds of millions of dollars annually, the governor said.

That includes the cost of Medicaid for the poor, prisons for criminals, and
education for the children of immigrants.

``The people of Florida should not be compelled to subsidize the entry of
illegal aliens into the United States nor should they tolerate continued failure
of the United States government to carry out its duty under the law,'' Chiles
wrote.

He accused the Immigration and Naturalization Service of selectively enforcing
the law and said that has helped turn Florida into a haven for immigrants.

In southeast Florida, Chiles said, the current practice of the INS is to detain
and then release Haitians, Nicaraguans and others before their asylum status is
determined and no effort is made to deport these individuals.

Most Cubans who arrive in Florida are quickly released under the terms of the
Cuban Resettlement Act of 1966, which grants asylum to those who flee Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 8, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LONG-TERM DETENTION URGED FOR REFUGEES

BYLINE: San Francisco Chronicle

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Hoping to send a strong signal to immigrant smuggling operations, federal

immigration officials said that almost 300 Chinese refugees picked up on the

coast of New York City will be held in long-term detention.

Officials said that the captain and crew of the smuggling ship could face years
in prison for their part in the smuggling operation, in which eight

passengers lost their lives in the icy waters.

In the past, immigrant smugglers generally have received minimal

sentences, while the refugees have been detained briefly and then released

until their applications for asylum have been heard.

"This group is being detained to provide an example of what American law

enforcement can do," said Edward McElroy, deputy district director of the

Immigration and Naturalization Service for the New York region. "It's meant

to be a deterrent."

Asylum cases can frequently take up to two years to be heard, although

officials say they try to expedite the cases of individuals being held in

detention.

The smuggling ship Golden Venture ran aground off the coast of Queens

Sunday after an arduous 17,000-mile journey from the Chinese mainland. McElroy
said the INS could account for 296 passengers, including eight dead, six

hospitalized with injuries and five who escaped.

The hard line taken by the INS against those on the Golden Venture came

too late for some federal officials, who have been watching with alarm as the
Chinese smuggling rings have become bolder in recent weeks.

At a news conference outside the Federal Building in downtown Manhattan on
Monday, Rep. Charles Schumer, D-Brooklyn, the ranking member of the

immigration subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee, criticized the

State Department for not doing enough to stanch the flow of immigrants.

"Our immigration laws need overhauling (because) they don't meet the

needs of the late 20th century," he said. "The State Department has not made

this a high item on their agenda, and I'm trying to light a fire under them."
Schumer said he wants the government to double criminal penalties and to

extend them to gang members who collect payment money from the immigrants and to
the employers who hire them.

The maximum penalty for smugglers is five years, but sentences typically

have been between six months and two years. The employers-- most often

sweatshop and restaurant owners -- generally face civil rather than criminal

sanctions.

In response to the growing furor over the smuggling operations, the

Chinese Consulate in San Francisco released a statement disputing immigrants'
claims of persecution at home as "groundless" and calling for international

cooperation.

Federal agents in New York and San Francisco are investigating whether the
Golden Venture is linked to the recent spate of smuggling ships carrying

Chinese immigrants seized on the West Coast, officials said. Two of those

ships -- a fishing trawler seized off San Diego with 200 passengers and a

vessel that dropped 250 passengers at a dock under the Golden Gate Bridge

-- were intercepted in the past month.

Meanwhile, 26 illegal Chinese immigrants were in custody Monday after they were
picked up in a Los Angeles parking lot after their arrival on a ship from China,
immigration authorities said.

The detainees, all from China's Fujian Province, were dropped off by a

mother ship off the coast of Southern California three days ago, said John

Brechtel, district director of the INS.

INS officials believe that there are about 24 more ships headed toward

American coastlines, loaded with Chinese refugees.

Duke Austin, INS spokesman, said Monday that there could be "as high as a couple
of dozen (ships) off the Pacific coming here. Others are being

retrofitted in Southeast Asia."

Neither the INS nor the U.S. Coast Guard has spotted more ships off the

Atlantic coast.

* Newsday and Reuter contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 13, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

CLINTON SUPPORTS LIMITING VISAS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Employers who use immigrant workers may yet face restrictions on that labor
pool.

U.S. Labor Secretary Robert Reich said Tuesday that the Clinton administration
will support limits on visas for foreign workers and new responsibilities for
their employers.

''Hiring foreign workers over U.S. workers should be the exception, not the
rule,'' Reich said at a news conference with Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who
announced his intention to restore limitations on foreign workers to immigration
legislation pending in the Senate.

Kennedy is one of the combatants in the Congressional struggle to reform federal
law covering both illegal and legal immigrants. The Senate Judiciary Committee,
of which Kennedy is a member, meets Wednesday to continue hammering out its
reform bill. A similar bill is scheduled for a vote in the House next week.

The Senate bill had contained restrictions on temporary foreign workers until
last Thursday, when Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the lead sponsor of the measure,
suddenly announced that he would withdraw ''every shred'' of the bill dealing
with employment-related immigration.

Simpson said last week and again Tuesday that business groups' vociferous
opposition to the limits on employment-related immigration caused him to pull
the measures in favor of salvaging the larger reforms in the bill.

''I'm not going to bust my fanny in an area where we're talking about 6,000 to
12,000 people,'' Simpson said Tuesday at an immigration forum sponsored by the
National Press Foundation.

Current federal law allows employers to sponsor up to 140,000 immigrants each
year for specific jobs. Employers used about 93,000 of those slots last year,
and Simpson originally proposed cutting the total allowable number to 90,000.

Kennedy agreed with Simpson's original intent of preserving U.S. jobs.

''At stake are hundreds of thousands of jobs that should be available to
Americans,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              15 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 1, 1994, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

LAWYERS CITE INS POLICY IN SUIT TO FREE CUBAN CHILDREN AT KROME

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


For weeks, anxious relatives of Cubans held at Dade's Krome Detention Center
have approached immigration lawyers searching for a legal remedy to the U.S.
policy of indefinite detention.

Two Miami lawyers say they've found a possible recourse in a little-known 1991
policy by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. It prohibits the prolonged
detention of undocumented immigrants under age 18. Of the more than 600 Cubans
at Krome, about 100 are juveniles.

The minors' attorneys, Robert Boyer and Leopoldo Ochoa, are to appear before a
federal judge today. They argue that INS has violated its own policy. In a class
action suit, they are demanding that the minors and either the mother, father or
legal guardian of each child be released to ensure the psychological well-being
of the young detainees.

''It's criminal to lock these kids up,'' said Miami resident Nelson Ferrer, who
has a cousin, Gladys Benitez, and her 4-year-old son, Andy, at Krome. ''A
victory in the courtroom is the only hope we have now.''

There may be other legal avenues for the detainees in Miami and at the U.S.
naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, say several Cuban-American lawyers who are
members of the refugee advocacy group, Due Process Inc. The lawyers formed a
task force Wednesday and vowed additional legal actions against the U.S.
government.

One option, according to Due Process President Rafael Penalver, is to file suit
on behalf of hundreds of detained Cubans who left the island before President
Clinton ordered the detention policy Aug. 12.

Lawyers with the U.S. Justice Department are expected to argue that the
government has the right to modify its own policy regarding all undocumented
immigrants, particularly in emergencies such as the exodus of rafters from Cuba.
They successfully made the same argument in previous suits by Haitian refugee
advocates.

Immigration officials also insist that the 3-year-old policy applies only to
unaccompanied minors, not those detained with a parent or guardian.

The policy, enacted in 1991 by then-INS Commissioner Gene McNary, states that
undocumented minors must be released after 72 hours, unless they are charged
with a crime, pose a threat to the community or ''cannot be moved for other
extraordinary and compelling reasons.''

''This is the only viable legal recourse we could find, and even this isn't a
sure thing,'' Boyer concedes.

Immigration lawyers say it is virtually impossible to legally attack the new
detention policy, despite the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966. The law allows a
Cuban refugee to become a U.S. resident after spending a year in this country.
But the act applies only to Cubans who have been paroled or admitted into the
country, the lawyers say. The detainees at Krome and others at an immigration
facility in Texas do not fall into either category.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Eduardo Hernandez tries to start an
outboard motor as a group attempts to flee Cuba Wednesday. Refugees with more
money are building rafts with motors, some with pontoons.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              16 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 8, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS CLAIMS HAITIANS END HUNGER STRIKE

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A U.S. immigration official said most of the nearly 160 Haitian asylum-

seekers on a hunger strike at the federal Krome Detention Center began to

eat Thursday, ending a weeklong protest.

But advocates for the Haitians could not confirm the claim and said their effort
to have Haitian detainees treated like Cuban refugees will continue

despite the status of the protest.

Carol Chasse, acting director of the Miami office of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said 156 of the remaining 158 strikers ate meals

Thursday.

Steven Forester, supervising attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center, said
advocates for the Haitians had been unable to verify the INS claim that the

strike had ended. He said Rolande Dorancy, the center's executive director,

believed the INS report was inaccurate.

"If the hunger strike has ended, even Gandhi ended his hunger strikes,"

Forester said. "The underlying reason for the hunger strike persists

regardless."

The end of the strike followed statements by Krome medical officials that said
they would force-feed the hunger strikers rather than let them starve

themselves to death in an effort to pressure INS officials into granting them
swift parole.

Forester said some Haitian refugees told several visiting advocates

Thursday that authorities had placed a few hunger strikers in isolation and

threatened to do the same to others if they did not begin eating.

"That's incorrect," Chasse said.

The Haitian detainees protested after 48 Cubans used a state-owned tourist
airliner to flee from Havana Dec. 29. They were given a hero's welcome in

Miami and spent just one night at Krome.

Some of the Haitians have spent more than a year at the facility on the

outskirts of the Everglades in Dade County while U.S. officials study their

asylum claims.

The Haitian refugees "are American heroes, just as much as are the Cubans who
have risked death to reach this country," Johnnie McMillian, head of the

Dade County branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People, said in a letter to President-elect Clinton.

A special U.S. immigration law assumes that all those fleeing Communist

Cuba are political refugees.

Most of the thousands of Haitians who have fled their homeland since

President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was ousted in a September 1991 military coup
have been treated as economic refugees by the Bush administration and

repatriated.

Many Haitians say they are encouraged by Clinton's campaign pledge to

reverse the Bush policy of returning Haitian refugees before they can press

their asylum claims. On Tuesday, 352 Haitian refugees cruised into a Miami

harbor aboard a freighter.

Aides say Clinton will announce a new Haiti policy before he takes office in an
effort to head off thousands of Haitian boat people.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 20, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CATHOLIC GROUPS CHALLENGE LAW

SECTION: RELIGION, Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 328 words


A Los Angeles judge permitted two Roman Catholic medical groups to join lawsuits
challenging the legality of Proposition 187, which would deny state services to
undocumented immigrants.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer said the California Association of Catholic
Hospitals and the Catholic Health Association of the United States could
intervene on behalf of a plaintiff represented by the American Civil Liberties
Union.

Lawyers for the state argued that the associations should not be allowed to
intervene because there are already too many plaintiffs in the lawsuit.

But Linda Peterson, an attorney for the hospital groups, said her clients did
not believe the other plaintiffs represented her clients' religious beliefs.

Peterson said the hospital groups are opposed to Proposition 187 requirements
that hospitals check the immigration status of patients before admitting them.

RESTAURANTS FIGHT LIQUOR BAN: A Joplin, Mo., city ordinance has allowed churches
to prevent nearby establishments from serving liquor, but several restaurant
owners think it's time for a change.

''I question it,'' said Tom Danner of T.J. Mots Restaurant. ''It's like allowing
a single belief to govern the economics of the downtown area.''

T.J. Mots is one of three restaurants in the city's central business district
that has tried recently to get permission from the Central Christian Center for
a liquor license.

The ordinance, which dates back to the 1940s, prohibits liquor sales at
businesses within 300 feet of a church unless church directors give written
approval.

''We didn't lobby for these laws, but they're in place and they protect us and
the children who attend our church,'' said Gary Shaw, executive director of the
Christian Center.

Shaw maintains approval of the liquor licenses would sanction a practice the
church opposes.

''We as a church just cannot say OK and issue a letter saying it's fine for them
to sell liquor,'' Shaw said.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WORLD RELIGION NEWS

TYPE: Digest

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              18 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 1, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL ACCUSED OF TORTURE, SEX ABUSE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. immigration agents along the Mexican border routinely abuse

undocumented migrants and sometimes shoot, torture or sexually abuse them, a

human rights group charged Sunday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service "is responsible for serious

and systematic rights violations" said the group, Americas Watch.

Abuses have been documented but are regularly covered up by the INS and

the Justice Department, and offending officers escape punishment, the group

alleged.

"The lack of a right to remain in the United States should not become a

license for abuse and mistreatment," Americas Watch said in a report titled,

"Brutality Unchecked: Human Rights Abuses Along the U.S. Border with

Mexico."

"Beatings, rough physical treatment and racially motivated verbal abuse

are routine," the group reported. "Even more serious abuses, including

unjustified shootings, torture and sexual abuse, occur."

Any investigation of such incidents is "almost invariably perfunctory"

and rarely leads to punishment, the report contended.

An INS spokesman faulted the report for relying heavily on second-hand

sources of information such as newspaper reports and allegations that come

from immigrant rights groups vehemently opposed to the INS. Few of the

allegations are ever substantiated, said the spokesman, Duke Austin.

"We get one allegation of abuse for every 17,000 arrests. We challenge

anybody to find a law enforcement agency with a record that good," Austin

said. He called the group's report "overblown" and a collection of

"recycled stories over a period of 10 to 15 years."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 11, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS TO ADVISE IMMIGRANTS OF RIGHTS IN POLICY CHANGE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


People suspected of being illegal aliens will be given written notice of

their rights and allowed to talk with lawyers before questioning, under a

landmark agreement to settle a class-action lawsuit.

The terms of the settlement, reached with the federal Immigration and

Naturalization Service, were released Wednesday. They have been tentatively

approved by U.S. District Judge William Matthew Byrne Jr.

"This is nationwide, any border, anywhere," said Peter Schey, lead

attorney for those who sued.

Federal officials would not comment.

According to Schey, the INS is printing notices in various languages to

distribute to those arrested. The INS also has prepared a videotape to train

employees, he said.

The INS still will be allowed to ask for booking information, but must

provide a "notice of rights" early in the process. The rights are outlined

in the papers filed June 5 with Byrne.

Arrestees are to be told they may speak with an attorney, make a telephone call,
request a list of free or low-cost legal services, seek a hearing before an
immigration judge, obtain release on bond, and communicate with a consular or
diplomatic officer of their home country.

After being given access to a phone, a person will have two hours to call a
lawyer and won't be asked during that time about anything other than name,

birth date, description, employment and address.

A hearing will be held in federal court in July to finalize the

settlement.

The lawsuit stemmed from an INS roundup of about 60 immigrants at the

Sbicca of California shoe factory in El Monte in July 1978. The lawsuit was

headed for trial when the INS sought talks in December 1990, Schey said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 12, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

STATE SUES U.S. OVER ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ and BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


As he has threatened for months, Gov. Lawton Chiles sued the federal government
Monday to collect $ 1.5 billion he claims Florida taxpayers have spent on
schooling, health care and other services for undocumented immigrants.

Accompanied by state Attorney General Bob Butterworth and Dade County officials,
Chiles insisted his lawsuit has better legal standing than other suits filed by
Texas and New York, which unsuccessfully sought compensation for the care of
immigrants.

We are seeking relief - that's relief spelled M-O-N-E-Y,'' said Chiles, who is
running for reelection this year.  We want to open the eyes of Washington to the
unfair burden of Florida. We refuse to pick up Washington's tab any longer.''

At a news conference in Miami federal court, both Chiles and Butterworth boasted
that the U.S. government has already responded to the lawsuit.. The U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service last week signed an agreement with
Florida to expedite the deportation of hundreds of nonviolent inmates in state
prisons who are undocumented immigrants.

By specifying undocumented immigrants in the lawsuit, the governor avoided the
politically sensitive issue of bringing all immigrants into the controversy. His
recent study of the state's immigration problems showed that the cost of serving
legal immigrants is higher than that for illegal immigrants. But his lawsuit
addresses only the costs of illegal immigration.

The lawsuit does not consider exiles leaving Cuba as undocumented immigrants
because a special law allows them to apply for residency. Of the 345,000
immigrants estimated by the INS, the breakdown is 60,000 Haitians, 57,000
Bahamians, 32,000 Canadians, 28,000 Nicaraguans and 24,000 Mexicans.

While acknowledging that the uncontrolled influx of aliens to the state of
Florida has had severe financial consequences, the federal government has failed
to take appropriate action to either control the influx or to pay for the
resulting costs,'' the lawsuit contends.

Moreover, the suit claims that the federal government is receiving most of the
income taxes paid by the undocumented immigrants.

Aside from monetary relief, Chiles is asking a federal judge to determine
whether the federal government has adequately enforced immigration laws. If a
judge rules that the government has failed, then an injunction should be issued
to halt the policies that have subjected Florida to an invasion of aliens,'' the
suit said.

An INS spokesman said Monday that the agency has limited resources to deal with
immigration.

He's suing the government for more than our annual budget,'' said INS spokesman
Tim Counts.  We are doing what we can, but our resources are stretched thin.''

The suit claims there are 345,000 undocumented immigrants living in Florida.
State and local governments spent $ 884 million in services to these immigrants
in 1993. Of that total, local governments, primarily schools, hospitals and
relief agencies, spent $ 622 million, the suit said.

Dade County has carried much of the burden by assisting thousands of immigrants
from Haiti and other Caribbean and Latin American countries, state officials
said. Also named as plaintiffs in the suit are the Dade County School Board and
the Dade County Public Health Trust, which runs Jackson Memorial Hospital.

While state and local spending on undocumented immigrants is estimated at $ 884
million for last year, the state wants $ 1.5 billion from its lawsuit since it
has been providing services to illegal immigrants on a large scale for more than
a decade, Chiles said.

The bulk of the $ 1.5 billion - based on services provided, in most cases, since
1988 - is $ 1.131 billion on English for Speakers of Other Languages,
Nutritional Food Program, Adult Education and other school programs.

Those figures represent the most reasonable calculations that we can possibly
make,'' said Parker Thomson, a Dade lawyer who will be chief counsel for the
state in the lawsuit.

Thomson said the $ 1.5 billion total was derived from estimates of the
undocumented immigrant population and calculations from the state Department of
Health and Rehabilitative Services, the Department of Corrections, the
Department of Education and various law enforcement agencies. Thomson conceded
such amounts are hard to pin down, but insisted the estimates are conservative.

The cost of illegal immigration is a controversial issue with conflicting
findings. A 1993 national study of farm workers by the U.S. Department of Labor
found that less than one in five received social services and only 2 percent
were in public housing.

THE COST TO FLORIDA

The state seeks nearly $ 1.5 billion based on services provided, in most cases,
since 1988. They include:

$ 1.131 BILLION on English for Speakers of Other Languages, Nutritional Food
Program, Adult Education and other school programs.

$ 250 MILLION for jailing immigrant inmates and providing probation and parole
services.

$ 70.3 MILLION in Medicaid or health care for the poor.

$ 13.9 MILLION in Food Stamps and Aid to Families With Dependent Children.

ALSO INSIDE: Estimating the cost of immigration is largely guesswork, analysts
admit. An interesting footnote: In the $ 254 million program to teach students
limited in English proficiency, about 60 percent of the students are U.S.
citizens.  STORY, 12A

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text. - ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              21 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 20, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

CHILES' SUIT AGAINST FEDERAL GOVERNMENT A LONG SHOT

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1470 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


California failed in its lawsuit to force the federal government to pay health
care costs for undocumented immigrants. So did Texas. And New York's legal
effort to get back $ 62 million spent on incarcerating illegal residents has
gone nowhere.

So how far will Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles get with his ambitious lawsuit, which
seeks nearly $ 1.5 billion from Washington?

The suit either will be quickly dismissed or languish for years in the courts,
say legal experts and immigration lawyers who have sued the federal government.

They say a chief failing of the Florida suit is highly questionable cost
estimates of illegal immigrants. Moreover, those estimates include money spent
on legal immigrants who contribute to the state's tax base.

Filed last week in Miami federal court, the suit amounts to grandstanding during
a tough election year, say immigrant advocates in South Florida and across the
nation.

They say Chiles also is riding a wave of anti-immigrant sentiment propelled by
officials in California, Texas and New York.

I'm troubled by all of this anti-immigrant rhetoric,'' said Cheryl Little,
attorney for Florida Rural Legal Services in Miami.  On behalf of documented
refugees, I'm concerned the governor is lumping legal and illegal residents
together. Everyone should understand that many of these people are taxpayers who
support businesses.''

Many agree with the intent of the suit, but doubt it will have much, if any,
effect.

Florida is being overwhelmed by the cost of immigrants, and pleas to Congress
for help have fallen on deaf ears,'' said Robert Boyer, longtime Miami
immigration lawyer.  But the governor's lawsuit doesn't stand much of a chance.
The federal government can play with it for years.''

CHILES DENIES POLITICAL AIMS

Chiles backed away from including the cost of legal immigrants in seeking
reimbursements after South Florida Hispanics protested. But the suit often
refers to aliens,'' or legal residents, when describing the state's financial
burdens, which were detailed in a study filed with the suit titled The Unfair
Burden: Immigration's Impact on Florida.''

The governor has repeatedly denied political motivation. He insists he is asking
only for Florida's fair share and points out that he is suing a fellow Democrat
and friend, President Bill Clinton.

And State Attorney General Bob Butterworth says the suit has a better chance of
succeeding than similar legal actions by states with large immigrant
populations.

Experts on immigration law disagree.

In the 1980s, both California and Texas tried to recoup health care costs for
undocumented immigrants, but federal judges dismissed them. In the California
case, San Diego County was seeking only $ 1.8 million.

Chiles' most daunting task will be confirming the precise amount the state
spends on illegal U.S. entrants, the experts say.

The nearly $ 1.5 billion Chiles contends has been doled out since 1988 on
schooling, medical care and other services to illegals is derived mainly from
guesswork. Even Chiles' chief attorney on the suit, Miami lawyer Parker Thomson,
concedes that. Moreover, much of that money may have gone to immigrants who
reside and work legally in Florida and pay taxes.

Chiles also must convince a judge that the state has the legal standing to bring
the suit.

RULINGS CARRY LITTLE WEIGHT

Another obstacle is the suit's reliance on broad interpretations of two previous
court rulings. A 1982 ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court gave illegal immigrant
children the right to a free public education in this country. Two years ago, a
New York federal appeals court allowed undocumented pregnant women the right to
Medicaid benefits.

The two rulings, however, have not been interpreted in subsequent court
decisions as forcing the federal government to reimburse states for the
schooling or for the general medical care of illegal residents. The court
actions simply recognize that the federal government should bear financial
responsibility.''

Florida's lawsuit has a number of flaws,'' said Jeanne Butterfield, a senior
analyst with the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington.  It
will be a huge undertaking for the state to prove the facts and figures it is
claiming. And it would have to spend millions of dollars on expert testimony.''

Indeed, some of the facts that Chiles' legal team would have to clear up have to
do with separating the legal recipients of state aid from the illegal ones.

For example, Butterfield said, the suit cites $ 954.7 million the state spent on
the educational program English for Speakers of Other Languages, or ESOL.
Schools, however, do not keep records of students' immigration status. In many
cases, the majority of the program's participants are U.S. citizens or legal
residents.

The suit also claims that the state spent nearly $ 14 million on food stamps and
Aid to Families with Dependent Children. Yet both government programs require
recipients to prove they are U.S. citizens or legal immigrants.

SOME CLAIMS CAN BE PROVED

The state's chief attorney in the suit, Thomson, said the figures were
reasonable estimates'' reached by various state agencies.

They used an estimate of 345,000 undocumented immigrants living in Florida
provided by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The suit acknowledges that immigrants who eventually attain legal status may
become self-sufficient, as they can work, pay taxes and buy medical insurance.''
Yet it does not indicate what percentage of the 345,000 fall into that category.

One figure the state can prove is the number of undocumented immigrants in state
prisons - 2,700. Earlier this month, Chiles and immigration officials announced
an agreement to speed up the deportation of hundreds of those inmates convicted
of nonviolent crimes. Florida spends an estimated $ 60 million a year to keep
these inmates in prisons.

Government officials in New York have tried more than once to sue the federal
government for the $ 62 million they claim for imprisoning illegal residents.
Because the lawsuits have been dismissed, New York is trying a slightly
different approach. It has sued the federal government, demanding it take
custody of these inmates.

New York Gov. Mario Cuomo is considering filing yet another suit requesting
retroactive payments for certain social services provided to undocumented
immigrants. New York officials estimate illegal entrants cost the state $ 970
million annually, compared to Chiles' claims that Florida spends $ 884 million
annually.

ANTI-IMMIGRANT SENTIMENTS

Cuomo, Chiles and California Gov. Pete Wilson have become increasingly vocal in
recent months about their states' expenditures on illegal immigrants. Chiles has
trod carefully on the issue because of Hispanic voters, but not so Wilson.

The California governor has backed a constitutional amendment to deny
citizenship to children of illegal aliens. Anti-immigrant fervor has also caught
on in Congress. Some conservative lawmakers have proposed cutting from 675,000
to 500,000 the number of legal immigrants allowed into the United States
annually.

Immigrant advocates say Chiles' suit has added to those sentiments. Butterfield,
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, describes as ludicrous a
sentence in the suit that blames the federal government for opening the door to
an uncontrolled influx of aliens.''

Butterfield, whose group often battles federal agencies on behalf of immigrants,
said the statement reeks of politics.

Agencies like INS can only do so much with the resources appropriated by
Congress and the administration,'' Butterfield said.  The federal government
does everything in its power to control the influx. Chiles' lawsuit is just an
attention grabber.''

THE BURDEN OF IMMIGRANT PROOF

Immigrant advocates and legal experts see major flaws in Gov. Lawton Chiles' $
1.5 billion lawsuit against the federal government to recoup the cost of
services for undocumented immigrants.

Among them:

COST estimates based mainly on guesswork.

THE LACK of precise figures on the number of illegal residents Chiles claims to
be dependent on the state, and legal residents who contribute to the economy.

THE SUIT'S broad interpretations of two previous court rulings, which granted
undocumented immigrants the right to public schooling and some Medicaid
benefits.

OTHER similar lawsuits by California, Texas and New York seeking federal
reimbursements have been dismissed by federal judges.

IMMIGRANTS BY STATE

The most recent government estimate put the nationwide number of illegal
immigrants at 3.2 million.

The top states, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service:

California, 1.2 million.

New York, 485,000.

Florida, 345,000.

Texas, 320,000.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text. - Ran all editions.

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              22 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 4, 1994, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA MAY TEST PLAN TO BLOCK JOBS FOR ILLEGALS

BYLINE: MICHELLE KAY; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The head of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform recommended Wednesday that
five states test a program to keep illegal immigrants from getting jobs in the
United States.

Barbara Jordan said job seekers in Florida, Texas, California, Illinois and New
York should be asked for their Social Security numbers, and employers would be
given the ability to check that the number was valid and belonged to the
applicant.

Jordan's recommendation, made to a Senate committee headed by Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., was immediately criticized as an assault on civil liberties.

''It is a big step toward a (national) identity card. Jordan is bowing to
politics and to public pressure,'' said Jeanne Butterfield, senior policy
analyst at the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Jordan's testimony Wednesday was the first in her capacity as chairwoman of the
Commission on Immigration Reform. The group's mission is to find ways of better
enforcing immigration laws and curbing the flood of illegal immigrants.

Critics say the current system is unwieldy because 29 different documents can be
presented as proof of citizenship or legal residence. Many of the documents are
easy to forge, and employers are reluctant to ask too many questions of job
applicants for fear of being accused of discrimination.

Under Jordan's proposal, the five states, all with high numbers of immigrants,
would give employers access to Social Security data bases. Job seekers would be
asked for their Social Security numbers, and the employer would check that the
number was valid and belonged to the applicant.

Forged Social Security cards would be eliminated since they could not be
verified, and because only U.S. citizens and legal residents are eligible for
these cards, illegal immigrants would be weeded out.

''The verification system will reduce the time, resources and paperwork spent by
employers abiding by the requirements of immigration law. It should also reduce
any potential for discrimination,'' Jordan said.

Jordan described her plan as the most credible option available but conceded
that her proposal was not as simple as it appeared.

The Social Security data bases are fraught with errors. In addition, Social
Security cards do not have photographs, and employers therefore have no way of
verifying the identity of the job applicant. Finally, no one, including Jordan,
knows how employers will actually use the federal data bases.

''We have recommended a pilot program because we have not reached consensus on
the best way to access the computer registry,'' Jordan said. She said the states
would test the use of Social Security numbers alone.

Jordan was emphatic that she would never support a move, ''not even in a pilot
program,'' that created ''an unwarranted intrusion in private lives.''

''I have spent my career protecting the constitutional and civil rights of
Americans,'' she said.

''Those who object to verification don't want barriers to employment,'' Jordan
said.

But civil rights groups remained skeptical.

''Any attempt to introduce a worker identification system, even a pilot program,
is unwarranted,'' said Richard Foltin, legislative director of the American
Jewish Committee.

He agreed with the aims of Jordan's proposal but argued that it would ''lead to
an erosion of civil liberties.''

''No one would doubt that those who would most often suffer the indignity of
having to show their card would be those who look or sound foreign. This
unsavory scenario is certainly anathema to anyone concerned with civil
liberties,'' Foltin said.

Butterfield said of Jordan's proposal, ''The solution is disproportionate to the
size of the problem.''

She said 300,000 illegal immigrants enter the country every year, but 250
million Americans would be affected by the worker verification system.

Jordan, who also supported increasing border patrols, compensating states for
the cost of caring for illegal immigrants and preventing illegals from receiving
taxpayer supported benefits, called for a study to determine the size and scope
of the immigration problem.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              23 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 1, 1994, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION DATA BANK GETS COOL RECEPTION

BYLINE: MICHELE KAY; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration will not support the U.S. Commission on Immigration
Reform's plan for a computerized system to help employers check whether job
applicants are illegal immigrants, an official said Friday.

Deputy White House press secretary Ginny Terzano said late Friday night that
efforts to improve existing systems had been in the works for some time, and the
administration wanted to give them a chance to work.

''The administration thinks it is essential to update and make the data bases
more accurate,'' Terzano said. ''We are going to significantly expand our pilot
projects to test phone verification. At this point we don't support a five-state
test project'' as proposed by the commission.

The worker verification system is one of seven proposals formally presented
Friday by Barbara Jordan, a former Texas congresswoman appointed chair of the
commission by President Clinton.

Immigration and civil rights advocates have opposed Jordan's proposal since she
first discussed it in congressional testimony last month, dubbing it a national
identity card. Last week, several groups asked the administration to reject the
idea.

Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner issued statements praising Jordan but stopping short
of embracing her proposals. They said they would improve and expand their
existing efforts to control illegal immigration.

Jordan's worker verification proposal called for a pilot project in five states.
Its intention is to eliminate the forged documents often used by illegal aliens
and remove discrimination by employers who tend to closer scrutinize workers who
look or sound foreign.

Under the plan, employers would ask for a Social Security number, and then
access Social Security Administration, INS or other data bases to ensure it
belongs to the job applicant and that the applicant is a U.S. citizen or legal
resident.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              24 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 17, 1994, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SIMPLIFY IMMIGRATION LAW: IF YOU'RE ILLEGAL, YOU LEAVE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 210 words


How can the American people possibly keep abreast of all the confusing policies
and legal rulings coming from the people in government and our judicial system
who are supposed to see that our immigration laws are obeyed and enforced with
no stipulations involved?

From the embarrassing Bay of Pigs invasion and former President Jimmy Carter's
handling of the Mariel fiasco to the present indecisiveness of the Clinton
administration, it's no wonder our immigration policies are in disarray.

The law states in simple terms that if you are an illegal alien living in our
country, or attempting to enter illegally, you are breaking the law and should
be sent back to your country of origin as soon as possible.

All the illegal aliens being held should have been sent back to their countries
of origin long ago. The American people are tired of hearing about and paying
for our never-ending immigration problems.

Cuba's Fidel Castro and all the other foreign leaders involved should not be
making our immigration policies as they have in the past. We should make it
clear to the rest of the world's leaders that illegal immigrants will be sent
back with no exceptions, and they would have to pay the costs involved.

Andrew Vernale

Riviera Beach

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              25 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 15, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

CHILES, 3 SENATORS SEEK FEDERAL HELP;
WITH COSTLY IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS

BYLINE: SHANNON JOHNSON

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Gov. Lawton Chiles joined three southwestern senators Tuesday in urging a
congressional panel to expand efforts to stop illegal immigration that costs
states billions of dollars.

Testifying before the Senate subcommittee on immigration, Chiles noted Florida
spends more than $ 1 billion a year on health care, education and the
incarceration of illegal immigrants.

While commending the Clinton administration's recent efforts to fight illegal
immigration, Chiles said ''We have a long way to go before we can declare
victory.''

Along with Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and
Richard Bryan, D-Nev., Chiles advocated stronger border enforcement and an
improved worker verification system to prevent illegal immigrants from obtaining
jobs.

Whatever reforms are adopted, Chiles said the federal government, not states,
should pay for them.

''Please remember that it is not good enough to merely increase penalties. It is
essential to deliver the goods to enforce them,'' he said.

Chiles proposed increased deportation of criminal illegal immigrants,
resettlement of refugees to less affected states, political asylum reform, and
an expansion of the Krome Avenue Detention Center.

He also advocated a ''charge card'' that would bill the federal government for
the education and health-care costs of immigrants until their residence status
is determined.

''We in the states care for them while time lapses. Let the federal government
get the bills, and I guarantee you we'll see swift results,'' he said.

Hutchison said she will introduce a bill that would provide an additional 6,000
border agents, deny government benefits to illegal immigrants except emergency
medical care, and create a fingerprint database of illegal immigrants.

''We must make every effort to deter and interdict illegal aliens. Illegal
immigration is exacting a cost on this country that we can no longer pay,'' she
said.

U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno said the administration is doing its best to
curb illegal immigration:

The administration has requested a $ 1.2 billion increase in immigration
spending for the budget year beginning Oct. 1 - $ 550 million of which would go
to states, she said.

The administration plans to add 700 border patrol agents, triple the number of
deportations of illegal immigrants, and double the number of deportations of
criminal immigrants by next year, she said.

Subcommittee chairman Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., who has introduced a bill to
curb illegal immigration costs, pledged to pass immigration reform this year.

''We will do sensible, credible legislation and we will do it this year,'' he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Lawton Chiles (mug)

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              26 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 30, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

TASK FORCE OUTLINES IMMIGRATION PROPOSALS

BYLINE: ERICA SHAFFERM

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An immigration reform task force appointed by House Speaker Newt Gingrich
released a plan Thursday that it said would permanently end illegal immigration.

''If we have a Congress and a president that have the will and the fortitude to
follow the recommendations, we will indeed stop the unchecked flow of illegal
immigrants,'' said Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., who headed the group of 46
Republicans and eight Democrats.

The task force's recommendations include:

Abolishing the right to citizenship for illegal immigrants' children born in the
United States.

Building well-lighted ''triple barrier'' fences along borders and stiffening
penalties for immigrant smuggling and illegal border crossing.

Denying illegal immigrants access to virtually all federal money, including
education.

Establishing a national work verification system.

Requiring hospital emergency rooms to report illegal immigrants who seek
treatment.

Gingrich, R-Ga., praised the group for reaching across party lines to produce
''common-sense'' recommendations.

He said the group would seek advice from governors of border states ''and
governors of the not-so-border states with a substantial number of illegal
aliens.''

Gingrich said he hopes the House will approve a bill that includes the task
force recommendations before the end of the year.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
supports new limits on immigration, supported the recommendations.

But pro-immigration groups were quick to express their objections.

''It is the height of irresponsibility for serious legislators to propose such
nonsense,'' said Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza.

Yzaguirre said his group was disappointed that ideas for improving border
control and visa enforcement were mixed in with proposals that would ''deny
public education to schoolchildren and undermine the 14th Amendment.''

Gallegly noted there were similarities among the task force's recommendations,
proposals from the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, and a bill offered
recently by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              27 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 10, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

BARRIER TO WISE IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: TOM BLACKBURN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 625 words


Two advisory panels on immigration reported last month.

One, created by Congress and led by former U.S. Rep. Barbara Jordan, called for
reducing legal immigration by one-third. The other was thrown together by House
Speaker Newt Gingrich to focus on illegal immigration.

Since Californians voted last year for punitive action against illegals (even at
the risk of exposing citizens to more crime and disease), politicians are racing
to get out in front of the public. When politicians race, the first thing to
suffer is analysis. The only thing to be addressed is perception.

For instance, one of the recommendations from the panel on illegals was a
''triple barrier fence'' along the borders. Pat Buchanan's fence-plus-trench
plan seemed extreme when he ran for the GOP presidential nomination. But that
was in 1992. The California vote was in 1994. Extreme is mainstream now.

Assume that Congress, which can't find money for a tax cut it wants, finds
millions of dollars to build and maintain a high-tech fence. That fence would
impede less than half of the problem.

Six of 10 illegals enter the country legally as students or tourists and simply
stay, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But hasn't everybody seen those eerie night films of hordes crossing the border
from Mexico? And hasn't the INS said it turns back 1 million people there each
year? So isn't the Mexican border the main problem?

Yes, yes and no. The 1 million figure includes repeaters. And most of the
violators, caught or missed, come for temporary jobs and go home. ''A large
reverse flow into Mexico goes virtually unnoticed and unreported,'' according to
the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan Washington think tank.

The INS estimates a total of 300,000 illegals arrive annually, tops. So, at
most, 120,000 illegals get here by sneaking across a border.

Now, if you think the ''immigration problem'' is illegal immigrants, and if you
think that means Mexicans ''swarming'' in, then the Buchanan Wall, at any price,
solves your problem, which is: how to keep 120,000 people out of a land of 250
million people.

If you think the problem is illegal immigration but know that 60 percent of the
illegals wouldn't be stopped by a fence, you lean toward having more INS agents
to find illegals labor-intensively, one at a time. That approach would reach 100
percent of the problem. But it wouldn't create fat construction contracts.

If a politician wanted contracts to award and ribbons to cut - a common wish -
he'd do better to build a case for the wall on the proposition that a country
that can't control its borders can't claim to be sovereign. If the borders are
porous enough to let 120,000 people sneak in, there's no telling how much
contraband, such as nuclear bombs, gets in.

That's not an immigration problem, much less the immigration problem.
Immigration is a side show to it.

Side shows are perfect distractions for public perceptions. Hiring more INS
agents would be expensive - not to mention that it would expand the ranks of
''jack-booted thugs'' for the paranoid perception-mongers of talk radio and the
National Rifle Association. So you can just about plan on being photographed in
front of a fence on your next trip to Texas.

A fence might attract tourists. It works for China. But if tourist visas account
for as much illegal immigration as the Mexican border, do we want that? Once
again, we face a solution that creates as many problems as it solves.

A fence would be big, tangible, expensive and convince an irate public that
politicians are doing something. It wouldn't be worth what it cost.

But when did that ever stop us before?

Tom Blackburn is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              28 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   October 25, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

HOUSE PANEL OKS RESTRICTIONS ON ALL VARIETIES OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: ERICA SHAFFER

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


 The House Judiciary Committee voted Tuesday to send sharp restrictions on both
legal and illegal immigration to the full House for consideration.
   The committee passed the Immigration in the National Interest Act 23-10. The
vote was split along party lines, with a majority of Republicans in support.
 The vote brought to a close more than four weeks of emotional debate, as
charges of bigotry and racism were lobbed on the dais.
   The bill's chief sponsor, Rep. Lamar Smith,
   R-Texas, predicted that the bill would win a larger margin of victory in the
full House.  That vote is expected early next year.
   ''We have produced a bill that is good for the American family, good for the
American worker, good for the American taxpayer,'' Smith said. ''It's not too
often you can do that in one bill.''
   ''I'll expect you'll see 100 or more Democrats voting for this bill on the
floor,'' said Rep. John Bryant, R-Texas.
   The bill makes broad changes in both legal and illegal immigration policies.
There was an effort to have the committee review legal and illegal immigration
reforms separately, but it failed.
   Some major reforms of illegal immigration would strengthen border patrols and
allow stiffer penalties for illegal border crossings and document fraud.
   Legal immigration reforms include cutting four of five family preference
categories, requiring legal immigrant sponsors to provide health insurance for
their charges and deporting immigrants who stay on government assistance for
more than 12 months.
   The bill also amends an immigration diversity program that would offer 27,000
visas per year to countries with low immigration rates to the United States.
This is in addition to the 700,000 allowed for family-sponsored,
employment-based and humanitarian immigrants.
   Critics blasted the bill.
   ''This bill is anti-family and anti-American,'' said Raul Yzaguirre,
president of the National Council of La Raza. ''The sponsors of this legislation
have, for cravenly political reasons, consciously blurred the line between legal
and illegal immigration.''
   Opponents hope that Republicans who don't want to curb legal immigration will
oppose the measure. But Smith said the bill maintains the United States' status
as a country with one of the world's most generous immigration policies.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              29 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 9, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

BUDGET INCREASE HELPS BEEF UP BORDER PATROL

BYLINE: NATALIE P. McNEAL

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Signaling a growing concern with illegal immigration, administration officials
Thursday said nearly half of a $ 511 million increase in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service budget will go to border enforcement.

Attorney General Janet Reno and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said at a news
conference that the increase will be used to add 1,000 Border Patrol agents in
the Southwest - concentrated at the U.S.-Mexico border's highest illegal
immigration corridors in Texas and Arizona.

Reno said the increased financing will allow the INS follow through with a plan
begun by the Clinton administration three years ago ''to reverse years of
neglect'' of the immigration agency.

''Today, with the resources provided us in the fiscal year 1996 budget, the
resources have finally arrived to put the full strategy in place,'' she added -
giving the administration credit not only for the current 24-percent increase
over last year's budget to a record $ 2.6 billion, but the 72 percent jump since
1993.

That didn't sit well with U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, given that most the
1996 increase was financed in a stopgap spending bill approved this year by
Congress.

''Significant increases in the INS budget for border enforcement coincide with
Republican majorities in Congress, not the arrival of the Clinton
administration,'' said Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee.

The second largest chunk of the increase, $ 140 million, will go to building
detention centers and repatriating illegal immigrants.

INS has had some successes. More than 51,000 criminal and other deportable
immigrants from the U.S. were removed in 1995. And more than 500,000 new
citizens were processed and sworn in to the U.S., Meissner said.

The agency also will use its resources to inspect workplaces to ensure illegal
immigrants aren't being employed, improve legal immigration services and speed
up legal entries and improve border-control technologies.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              30 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 16, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

25% HIKE IN IMMIGRATION AGENTS NOT ENOUGH, FOLEY SAYS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 276 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The Clinton administration's decision to increase immigration officers by 25
percent in Florida fails to add enough reinforcements for border patrol agents,
U.S. Rep. Mark Foley said Thursday.

Foley, member of a House task force on immigration reform, said the addition of
four U.S. Border Patrol agents to Florida is not enough to do the job. Foley is
sponsoring a bill he says will add 100 Border Patrol officers a year to Florida
for the next four years.

The West Palm Beach Republican said the four agents are insufficient because the
Clinton administration reassigned eight agents for temporary duties in the
southwestern United States.

Still, the manpower additions to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
are substantial. Attorney General Janet Reno announced last week that Florida
will get 110 new detention and removal officers and 19 officers to inspect
workplaces for undocumented immigrants.

The budget also will pay for 78 inspectors to deal with citizenship
applications, which now require an 18-month wait for review because of backlogs.

Entry of foreigners without proper documents will become tougher because of more
officers assigned to Miami International Airport, said Greg Gagne, an INS
spokesman.

Also, the INS will be more aggressive removing undocumented immigrants from the
country who are serving criminal sentences in state prisons and local jails,
Gagne said.

Besides more officers, the INS is upgrading computer systems used at ports and
field offices and installing a fingerprint identification system that will
detect criminals and repeat border-crossers passing through the Miami airport.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              31 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              February 23, 1996, Friday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

HOBE SOUND CROWD CHEERS FOLEY'S IMMIGRATION PLAN

BYLINE: SALLY D. SWARTZ

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: HOBE SOUND


U.S. Rep. Mark Foley had a sympathetic audience Thursday at a campaign-like
public forum on immigration laws.

Seventy senior citizens at St. Christopher's Church parish hall repeatedly
applauded as the Republican congressman from West Palm Beach outlined his plan
to beef up border patrols, prevent illegal immigrants from working or receiving
government benefits, and to deport them when they're caught.

''My grandmother came to this country from Poland with a sponsor and a clean
bill of health,'' Foley said. ''She worked as a maid at a Travelodge Motel,
cleaning toilets. She learned English and she became a citizen.''

Today's immigrants aren't as responsible as his grandmother, Foley said. ''They
no longer are expected to become a part of our culture.''

Congress will consider a bill proposing changes in immigration laws in
mid-March.

It would allow deporting 5,500 now in the prison system, he said, a suggestion
that drew applause. The bill also suggests hiring 1,000 more border patrol
agents each year until 2000.

Foley said Florida's border patrol has been reduced and agents sent to Arizona,
California and Texas, so illegal immigrants now know, ''if you're going to sneak
in, go to Florida.''

The bill, he said, sends a strong message to the agriculture community that the
U.S. will no longer tolerate hiring illegal immigrants.

''We want to close every opportunity for illegal aliens to come here, and if
they are caught, to assure they depart quickly,'' he said.

LaVerne Sweeting of Palm City asked why Washington politicians can't use common
sense.

''That's why I support term limits,'' Foley said.

The forums are planned around the immigration law theme, but their purpose is to
let people see the congressman.

''When he was campaigning, people complained elected officials only come out at
election time,'' Foley's aide Kirk Fordham said. ''People like to put their
congressman on the spot and ask questions.''

Foley has a forum today at the Port St. Lucie Community Center at 200 S.W. Prima
Vista Blvd. and will appear at Okeechobee's Speckled Perch Festival March 9.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              32 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SENATE TACKLES IMMIGRATION REFORM

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate will decide this week just how tough it wants to get with immigrants.

With illegal immigrants, the decision will be easy. Little resistance is
expected to beefing up an overwhelmed and overworked U.S. Border Patrol and
raising the penalties for people who evade it.

But the real test of the Senate's muscle will come when it considers measures
that would make life harder for legal immigrants. While the bill being
considered this week does not propose the controversial limits on the numbers of
legal immigrants, it does contain measures that could shut off their access to
public benefits.

''We are not happy with the Senate bill,'' said Lisa Navarrete, spokeswoman for
the National Council of La Raza. ''The good news about it is that it does not
have the legal immigration (limits) in it. However, there's still a lot in the
bill we're concerned about. . . . We very much want to ensure that benefits for
legal immigrants should continue to be available.''

Legal immigrants could also be affected by other measures in the bill, such as
the one that would abolish special treatment for Cubans. Others may be added on
the Senate floor, such as the proposal by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas,
that would block legal entry to the United States for anyone who was once caught
entering illegally.

The House took a hard stance on many of the same immigration issues last month,
but the Senate has special incentive not to be seen as soft on immigration:
Majority Leader Bob Dole, while campaigning for president, has expressed support
for such hard-line measures as one that would allow states to deny public
education to immigrant children who are in the United States illegally.

The debate could begin as early as today, the first day the Senate has been in
session in two weeks because of the annual Easter break. The break is going to
require some senators to catch up on immigration in cram sessions with their
staffs; others, like Hutchison, have amendments ready to take to the floor.
Texas' senior senator, Republican Phil Gramm, is considering offering proposals
to limit immigrants' access to welfare and to require tamper-proof Social
Security cards.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              33 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 3, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SENATE PASSES GET-TOUGH BILL TO CURB ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: MARC LACEY

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate voted overwhelmingly Thursday to toughen the country's immigration
laws to stymie those attempting to illegally enter the United States and make
earning a living difficult for those who have already arrived.

The bill would nearly double the number of Border Patrol agents, better equip
the agents and put up miles of fencing and other barriers. For those who still
manage to come, the legislation would crack down on the fraudulent documents
that allow many illegal immigrants to work and sharply curb the distribution of
federal benefits - from welfare to student financial aid.

Smugglers would face far tougher penalties under the legislation, as would those
who engage in the multimillion dollar business of manufacturing fake driver
licenses, birth certificates and other identification cards. The bill also calls
for more detention facilities for those caught in the country illegally, and
streamlined deportation procedures to remove them more quickly.

Florida Democrat Bob Graham was one of only three senators to vote to reject the
measure. Republican Connie Mack supported it.

Senators struck from the bill most of the provisions affecting legal immigrants,
including sharp cuts in immigration numbers. But the bill would sharply limit
federal benefits for noncitizens and would hold legal immigrants' sponsors
financially responsible for those they bring into the country.

"We have brought forth significant changes in legal and illegal immigration that
are rather sweeping," said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the chief sponsor of the
bill. "This issue is about America and America is about conflict and resolution.
It's about these things that pull and tear at us."

It was California's Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative seeking to bar illegal
immigrants from a variety of public services, that catapulted immigration onto
the national stage. The Senate's 97-3 vote, coming six weeks after House passage
of a similar crackdown, means the most far-reaching immigration reform in a
decade could be in place by summer.

President Clinton is expected to sign the bill, but the White House has
expressed concerns with some provisions in both the House and Senate bills, and
is pressing for changes during conference.

"While this bill strongly supports our enforcement efforts, it still goes too
far in denying legal immigrants access to vital safety net programs which could
jeopardize public health and safety," Clinton said in a statement. "Some work
still needs to be done. I urge Congress to move quickly to finalize and send me
this key legislation."

The Senate legislation - arrived at after nearly 52 hours of debate spread over
eight days - differs from the House version in one significant respect: It lacks
a provision sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., that would give states
the right to ban public schooling for illegal immigrant children.

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., endorsed the concept while campaigning
in California, but he and other Republican leaders opted to leave the
controversial measure out.

The White House has said that including the schooling ban in the final
legislation would bring on a veto.

Advocate groups differed on just what effect the new law would have, with the
bill pleasing neither immigrant rights groups nor hard-line immigration
reformers.

Christa Schacht, staff attorney with the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, feared the legislation could bring on "far-reaching and
unintended consequences" and an "atmosphere of intolerance" affecting Latinos in
general.

But K.C. McAlphin, deputy director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, said the Senate pulled its punches because of cries from special
interests.

"This is not going to make a dent in solving the problem," he said. "It's a
charade. It's not real. Once they get here, illegal immigrants are still home
free."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., characterized the final bill as a solid
compromise.

"I can go out and list a whole series of things I don't like about the bill but
you have to look at whether in the bottom line this is going to make a
difference on illegal immigration and American jobs, and I think it will,"
Kennedy said.

The general approach the Senate approved is the same the government is currently
employing - focusing on the border and the workplace.

The legislation calls for the hiring of 1,000 new Border Patrol agents over each
of the next four fiscal years, which would dramatically increase the current
5,100-person force. It would also equip them with state-of-the-art technology
including night-vision goggles.

The bill also calls for the construction of triple fencing along portions of a
14-mile stretch of the California-Mexico border.

In the workplace, the bill would set up a series of pilot programs in which
employers could tap into a government database to verify the immigration status
of new hires. This initiative is vehemently opposed by some critics fearful that
it is a dangerous step toward a Big Brother-style society.

Opposing the bill were three Democrats: Russell Feingold of Wisconsin, Paul
Simon of Illinois and Graham.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              34 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 5, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

GIVE FOLEY CREDIT FOR IMMIGRATION BILL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 151 words


The letter "Foley shows only bigotry in ideas on immigration" was a bitter
attack on U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, for his efforts to enact
moderate immigration reform. This letter adds nothing to reasoned debate on this
crucial issue.

Rep. Foley's bill - the Immigration in the National Interest Act of 1995 (HB
2202) - passed in the House and is awaiting action by the Senate. It would show
that we are serious about controlling illegal immigration. Now, some are allowed
to flout our laws at the expense of those who obey them.

The bill would tighten our borders, penalize those who smuggle aliens into our
country, streamline removal of illegals, beef up enforcement against those who
employ undocumented aliens, deny means-tested public benefits to illegals and
regulate hiring of temporary skilled foreign workers to replace American
workers.

Carol Whalen

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              35 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 3, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SOME COMMON SENSE IS FINALLY ALLOWED ENTRY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 475 words


Some of the 26 things Florida and the federal government agreed to do about
illegal immigration last week are so obvious you wonder why it took so long to
get to them.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, for example, will start giving state
law enforcement officials access to fingerprint files of criminal illegals who
have been deported from Florida. The agreement doesn't design rockets; it just
gets a kite off the ground.

But the deal worked out by the Chiles administration and the Justice Department
is the first between a state and the federal government. "Some of this stuff is
so basic," says Mark Schlakman, one of the state's negotiators. "But we weren't
getting it."

Now we will get things like:

Passengers arriving in Miami without documents will get a hearing at the airport
instead of being allowed into Miami and told to come back later for a hearing.
If they wish to appeal, they will be held at an expanded processing center while
waiting.

The INS will try to identify and infiltrate illegal immigrant smuggling
operations working in the Caribbean.

Non-violent prisoners eligible for deportation will be released from Florida
prisons and deported. Under an earlier program, 358 illegals were deported. The
day after the new agreement was announced, the first 30 shipped out. On any
given day, Florida's prisons hold 5,000 deportables, who cost state taxpayers $
100 million a year.

Maybe none of this would be happening if President Clinton didn't need to win
Florida this year. Maybe it wouldn't be happening if California hadn't passed an
anti-immigrant referendum in 1992 that some groups seek to duplicate here. Maybe
it's happening because Attorney General Janet Reno is from Miami. Maybe it took
Gov. Chiles suing the federal government for $ 1 billion to reimburse the
state's costs for past failures to control U.S. borders.

Whatever the politics, Gov. Chiles said he had been trying to get some of the
items in the agreement for 23 years, and now he has them. The Supreme Court
refused to take his billion-dollar lawsuit. The suit attempted to deal with the
results of the problem - which is that the U.S. border leaked, and previous
administrations in Washington had higher priorities than caulking it.

If last week's agreement is a consolation prize for losing the lawsuit, it at
least deals with causes instead of results. Florida claimed in the suit that
federal failures to control illegal immigration cost the state money that the
feds should repay. The agreement promises that the feds, with state help, will
stop failing.

"It's not a complete solution," says Mr. Schlakman. "We're not totally there.
It's not nirvana. But we are so much farther along than we were two years ago."
Actions the INS and other agencies are taking may be elementary, but they beat
two decades of talk.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              36 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 28, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLINTON SEEKS TO PLUG HOLES IN IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Hearst Newspapers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton on Tuesday asked Congress for more spending and new measures
to tighten U.S. immigration defenses against illegal aliens and terrorists who
exploit the nation's open borders.

Clinton said the changes are needed to battle ``international terrorists hiding
behind immigrant status'' while also clamping down on illegal aliens who
penetrate U.S. borders that ``leak like a sieve.''

Spurred by hundreds of Chinese boat people and an Egyptian sheik linked to the
bombing of the World Trade Center in New York in February, Clinton declared that
Americans ``will not surrender'' the nation's borders ``to those who wish to
exploit our history of compassion and justice.''

Unveiling the initiative at the White House before Vice President Al Gore, top
Cabinet officers and members of Congress, Clinton said the United States would
not abandon its tradition of being ``the world's greatest melting pot'' and ``a
safe haven for refugees.''

``But to treat terrorists and smugglers as immigrants dishonors the tradition of
the immigrants who have made our nation great,'' Clinton said.

The president called for the nation's borders to be patrolled more carefully and
for drastically expediting the processing of requests for political asylum by
foreigners. Currently, it takes federal officials many months, sometimes years,
to rule on applications for asylum - which is granted only to those whose lives
would be endangered if they were sent home.

Under the Clinton plan, foreigners requesting political asylum without warning
or proper paper work at U.S. ports of entry would receive a single hourlong
interview and an immediate appeal on the spot. If both the request and appeal
were denied, they would be immediately returned to the nation of embarkation.

Asylum claims are made by about 30,000 people a year snared at U.S. entry points
with fraudulent or no documents, a State Department official said. Clinton's
proposal would not affect an estimated 300,000 aliens who enter the country each
year without being caught.

To tighten U.S. borders, Clinton also proposed spending an additional $172.5
million next year to hire 600 more people for the 4,000-member Border Patrol -
and also enhancing the State Department's ``lookout'' system that tracks foreign
criminals and suspected terrorists.

Clinton said there was ``no question'' that his actions were prompted in part by
the threat posed by alleged terrorists who were reportedly plotting to blow up
the United Nations and assassinate U.N. Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali
and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 19, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

OUR TAXES AREN'T FOR HELPING NONCITIZENS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 156 words


California's Proposition 187 was declared unconstitutional by a state court. I
strongly disagree with that decision. The proposed law would have denied
benefits to illegal aliens. I don't think such a law is even necessary, and I am
amazed that it was shot down in court.

Opponents of laws such as Proposition 187 will scream about human rights. We all
understand that these people are indigents from poverty-stricken nations. Why
aren't the governments of these nations more responsible for their own citizens?
Poor Americans don't go to Mexico; only rich Americans are welcome to live
there.

I am truly sympathetic to these indigent aliens. But with a $ 5 trillion debt on
our backs, we can't afford the burden of so many poor illegal aliens. Not only
do I feel that Proposition 187 is legal, but I also think that the government
should strongly enforce its existing immigration laws.

Vito Leonardi

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              38 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  February 14, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

FIRMS HIRING ILLEGALS RISK CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: JULIA MALONE

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


 President Clinton, delivering on a promise made in his State of the Union
speech last month, signed an executive order Tuesday to bar companies that
knowingly hire undocumented immigrants from doing business with the federal
government.
   The president vowed to reduce the ''job magnet that draws illegal immigrants
to this country.'' His order, which goes into effect immediately, would punish
firms by disqualifying them from federal contracts for one year.
 However, the order sparked skepticism among experts who said it ignores a key
problem - the forged documents that illegal workers can purchase with ease.
   ''I'm aware of very few employers that knowingly employ illegal aliens,''
said Art Roberts, senior vice-president of the Texas Association of Business and
Chambers of Commerce.
   Roberts said federal officials should provide ''some sort of method'' such as
an 800 number to call to verify if a potential employee is a legal resident.
   A verification program has long been proposed, but so far it has been tested
in California only as an experiment.
   Despite a lack of accurate estimates of the number of illegal workers,
officials say that enforcement of employer sanctions has lagged in recent years.

   Just one day before Clinton signed the order, more than 20 undocumented
workers were arrested at a construction site for the new Federal Center in
Atlanta. The site is in front of the regional office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              39 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 23, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN WORKERS, INS SETTLE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


U.S. officials must reconsider temporary resident status for thousands of

Haitian farm workers, providing them with additional legal guarantees and

deciding cases individually, a federal judge ruled Monday.

U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins approved a settlement reached in a

class-action lawsuit filed by the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami and the

Diocese of Palm Beach four years ago against the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service.

The lawsuit challenged the "practices, policies and procedures" of the

INS for determining the legal status in this country of the foreign farm

laborers. It prompted a temporary injunction on Aug. 22, 1988, requiring the

INS to give an estimated 40,000 foreign workers in Florida, most of them

Haitian, another chance at temporary resident status.

"I believe (the settlement) will have effects on over a million farm

workers nationwide, because the procedures are consistent with procedures the
government has been applying in other cases around the country," said Ira

Kurzban, a Miami lawyer who represented the farm workers. "We are delighted

with this settlement."

In 1988, Kurzban first represented 17 Haitians who had applied for permits to
stay and work in the United States under "special agricultural worker"

provisions of the 1986 Immigration Act. But workers had to prove, among other
things, that they had been employed and had no criminal record.

When the INS denied the Haitians' applications, threatening them with

deportation, Kurzban sued in U.S. District Court. His claim in the lawsuit,

upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court last year, was that the INS was violating the
farm workers' constitutional rights.

"This is a unique case from a legal perspective in that we won every

single issue of fact and of law in every single court that the government

litigated the case in, including the United States Supreme Court," Kurzban

said.

Under the agreement approved Monday, the INS must issue work authorization to
all workers represented in the suit for temporary resident status until the
applications are denied on an individual basis.

The settlement said a worker will have met his "burden of proof" that

he has done seasonal agricultural work for at least 90 days during the 12-

month period ending May 1, 1986, if he can provide evidence.

Added legal protection is to be provided under the accord to workers

who claim they weren't given employment documentation.

Kurzban and other attorneys for the Haitian Refugee Center and the

Palm Beach diocese negotiated the settlement with attorneys for the Office of
Immigration Litigation of the U.S. Department of Justice.

If the INS intends to deny an application for temporary residence status, the
applicant must be advised in advance, so that he can schedule a new

interview with immigration officials.

Applicants must be provided with an interpreter, given an opportunity to

present witnesses and be provided with counsel under terms in the settlement.
David V. Bernal, who represented the Office of Immigration Litigation at

Monday's hearing, deferred all comment to the INS in Washington, as did

Richard Smith, the INS' regional director in Miami.

In Washington, INS spokesman Duke Austin said he couldn't comment.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 4, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURT NIXES AGRICULTURAL IMMIGRATION BAN

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 400 words


The U.S. government's refusal to grant immigration status to thousands of

agricultural workers who applied for U.S. residency under the 1986 Immigration
Reform and Control Act has been declared illegal by a federal court in

California.

The ruling is expected to benefit thousands of the 1.2 million applicants,
including many in Florida, who applied to immigrate under the special

agricultural worker, or SAW program-- said Bruce Goldstein, an attorney with

Washington-based Farmworker Justice Fund and one of the attorneys who

represented workers in the class-action suit.

The SAW program authorizes the granting of "temporary resident alien

status," and later adjustment to permanent resident alien status and then

U.S. citizenship, to aliens who prove they performed certain types of

agricultural work in the United States during a specified time that ended in

May 1986. The 18-month application period ended Nov. 30, 1988.

On Dec. 18, 1989, Congress amended the law governing the SAW program,

allowing INS to terminate the temporary resident status and deny adjustment to
permanent resident alien status of SAW applicants if they have been convicted of
either one felony or three misdemeanors committed in the United States.

Another provision of the law denies eligibility if an applicant has been

committed of a serious crime. The provision ruled on this week covered

primarily minor crimes, including traffic violations.

When INS implemented this regulation, it began terminating SAW temporary

resident status of individuals who were convicted of a felony or three

misdemeanors before, as well as after, Dec. 18, 1989.

Five agricultural workers filed a class-action suit in 1991, challenging

the policy of retroactively applying the congressional amendment to crimes

committed before the amendment was enacted. Ruling on summary judgment in

federal court in Sacramento, Calif., Judge Edward J. Garcia agreed the

practice was unlawful.

He also struck down a regulation that made the felony/three misdemeanor

rule a criterion of initial eligibility for temporary resident status.

"The government's attempt to apply this rule retroactively violated the

basic sense of fairness which we owe toward the immigrants who have been

performing the most dangerous, grueling and poorly paid jobs in the United

States," Goldstein said.

The Justice Department could not be reached for comment Friday, but

Goldstein said he expects an appeal.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 6, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MAN'S DEATH CREATED IMMIGRATION SNAFU FOR KENDALL WIDOW;
WOMAN ORDERED OUT BECAUSE SHE ISN'T `RESIDING WITH' HUSBAND

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 500 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Maria Gonzales buried her husband four years ago. That is when her

struggle to remain in the United States began.

U.S. immigration officials contend that Gonzales, a native of Lima, Peru,

should not be allowed to remain in the United States because she is not

"residing with" her husband, as the law demands.

An attorney for Gonzalez argued last week before a federal appeals court

that she should be allowed to stay in this country with her U.S.-born son.

But the government countered that Gonzalez's one opportunity at becoming a

U.S. resident died with her husband.

Gonzalez, 38, who lives in the Miami suburb of Kendall, contends she has the
right to stay because her husband, Cuban-born Marino Gonzalez, was granted

permanent resident status in 1986-- two years before he was killed in a

traffic accident.

Moreover, she has lived here for nine years and has a 7-year-old son,

Alex, who was born in Houston.

But at the time of her husband's death, Gonzalez's application for

residency still was being processed. Four months after the fatal accident, she
was denied permanent residence by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Seeking to overturn the decision of a federal district court decision to

deport Gonzalez, attorney Edgardo Caturla told a three-judge panel of the 11th
Circuit Court of Appeals that the U.S. attorney general has the discretion to
grant his client the same status as her late husband.

The husband was allowed to remain in the United States under the Cuban

Adjustment Act of 1966. The federal law also applies to spouses and children

living with a Cuban immigrant. But it doesn't specify if the spouse must be

living with the Cuban resident at the time of the spouse's application or when
INS decides to grant or deny residency.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Dexter Lee told the judges the circumstances of the case
were tragic, but the law is clear. Gonzalez must be residing with a Cuban with
permanent residency status for her to qualify as well, he said.

"By the virtue of his tragic, untimely demise, she stopped living with

him," Lee said.

The government attorney said only by Congress amending the law to apply to

late spouses can Gonzalez be granted residency. The appeals court may take 30 to
60 days to reach a decision.

At least one judge on the panel, Jay L. Edmondson, seemed to side with the
government. The judge told Gonzalez's attorney that part of the Cuban

Adjustment Act was designed to keep families together.

"They can be a unified family in Peru. Isn't that enough?" the judge asked

Caturla.

The attorney replied that it wasn't.

Gonzalez has another son from a previous marriage, Daniel, 18, who may be

deported to Peru with her. She said that INS has not been fair and that she

deserves to stay in South Florida with her two sons.

"This is not just," Gonzalez said after Thursday's hearing. "I've been

living here for nine years and one of my sons was born here. Both my sons

consider this country their home. I don't want to go back to Peru because

conditions there are in bad shape."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 28, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FARM GROUP TO PAY FINES OF $85,000

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 315 words


A South Florida agricultural employer organization has agreed to pay

$85,000 in civil penalties to settle charges that it discriminated against

workers, the U.S. Department of Justice said.

The fine, agreed to last week in a consent decree, is the largest civil

penalty ever collected by the Office of Special Counsel for Immigration

Related Unfair Employment Practices, the Justice Department said.

The South Florida Tomato & Vegetable Growers Association, made up of 51

individual growers and labor contractors based in the Homestead area, was sued
by the Special Counsel's office in April 1991 for allegedly engaging in a

pattern and practice of requiring any foreign workers to present more or

different documents than necessary to prove they were authorized to work in

the United States.

Most of the workers affected were of Latino and Haitian origin.

"This outcome sends a message to employers who engage in unfair

employment practices, specifically discrimination based on citizenship status
and document abuse, that they risk incurring penalties equal to those which

the Immigration and Naturalization Service can assess for failing to ensure

that their employees are authorized to work in this country," said Special

Counsel William Ho-Gonzalez.

The Office of Special Counsel was established by Congress under the

Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, or IRCA, to enforce that law's

prohibition against employment discrimination based on national origin and

citizenship status. Since its inception, the office has received 2,412

complaints, the department said.

"Employers must take notice that their compliance with the anti-

discrimination provisions of IRCA is just as important as their compliance

with the statute's employment verification section," Ho-Gonzalez said.

The South Florida Tomato & Vegetable Growers Association is no longer in

business and its members could not be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 6, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS STOPPED, SENT BACK;
IT'S 1ST BOATLOAD RETURNED SINCE BUSH POLICY UPHELD

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI


The U.S. Coast Guard repatriated 40 Haitians Wednesday, the first refugees

sent home since the U.S. Supreme Court temporarily upheld the Bush

administration policy to send Haitians back without immigration hearings.

A U.S. Coast Guard cutter intercepted a cargo ship carrying 40 Haitians

and forced it back Wednesday to Port-au-Prince. The Coast Guard said it also

found small quantities of heroin, cocaine and marijuana aboard the vessel, the
first Haitian refugee boat intercepted since July 23.

The Coast Guard escorted the 70-foot Haitian coastal freighter Grand

Merite to Port-au-Prince Wednesday after stopping the vessel Saturday about 17
miles north of Nassau, Bahamas.

The ship's captain told the Coast Guard there were only six crew members aboard,
but a search turned up 40 undocumented refugees, said Petty Officer

Simone Adair. The vessel was bound for Miami.

"The vessel, drugs and Haitians were turned over to Haitian officials,"

said Adair.

The U.S. Supreme Court Saturday ruled the United States can continue to

return Haitians to their homeland forcibly while opponents of the policy mount a
legal challenge.

The Supreme Court ruling overturned a federal appeals court decision

earlier in the week.

The appeals court had ruled that the Bush administration's repatriation

order, issued May 24, violated immigration law because refugees were returned
without proper hearings to a country where they feared persecution.

The Supreme Court said the issue will be decided quickly. It gave the

government until Aug. 24 to defend its policy. Lawyers representing the

interests of the Haitians were given until Sept. 8 to make their case.

Wednesday's repatriations brought to 27,282 the number of Haitian

refugees returned to their homeland since the bloody military coup which

ousted Haiti's first freely elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Sept.

30.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 17, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS, OFFICIALS BLAST GREEN CARD PLAN

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A requirement that longtime resident aliens be fingerprinted, photographed

and shell out $70 for new registration cards is drawing criticism from members
of Congress, attorneys and the immigrants themselves.

"To be fingerprinted is absolutely alien to Britishers," said a English-

born woman who lives in West Palm Beach who read about the new registration

program in a newspaper. "I'm a 67 year-old lady, and I'm not about to start

going out and robbing banks."

The woman, who moved to the United States in the 1950s, asked that her

name not be published.

Several members of Congress from the Miami area are publicly protesting

the new regulation from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. A

letter signed by four lawmakers requests that the $70 renewal fee be waived.

A West Palm Beach attorney who represents immigrants says the

"bureaucratic hassle" is targeting older people who are not involved in

fraud or other criminal activity.

"They are not the ones who are violating the law," said the attorney,

Chandler Finley. "Why are we making them go through this?"

The INS says all people who were granted green cards, or permanent

residency, before 1978 must renew the cards before July 31 next year.

INS officials say the new cards will be fraud-resistant because of

printing and laminating techniques. The renewals also allow the immigration

service to update its records since it stopped annual reporting by resident

aliens several years ago.

"We are not trying to con the aliens into thinking the benefit is far

greater to them than us," said Rick Kenney, a spokesman for the INS in

Washington.

Kenney said the $70 renewal fee is to cover the costs of producing the

card and maintaining records. The fee does not include the cost of the

fingerprint or photographs required to be submitted with the application. The
fingerprint image is of the right index finger.

The green card renewals, which will affect an estimated 1.5 million

immigrants, are not popular.

"A lot of people are going to be offended because we told them when we

issued the cards that they are good indefinitely," Kenney said. "But

indefinitely is not the same as forever."

A resident alien could avoid the renewal by filing an application for U.S.
citizenship, Kenney said. The fee for a citizenship application is $90.

NEW CARDS

* ALL PERMANENT resident aliens who carry a `green card' issued before 1978

must have them renewed by July 31, 1993.

* CALL THE U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service at 1-800-755-0777 to

hear recorded instructions in English, Spanish and creole. Applications can be
requested at the end of the message by leaving a name and address.

* APPLICANTS must submit two photographs, a fingerprint and a cashier's check or
money order for $70.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box at end of story. Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 24, 1994 MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

NEWSMAKERS

SECTION: BUSINESS DAY 1, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 615 words


RECENT HIRES, PROMOTIONS and other events:

NEW HIRES

BELLE AHLERING has been hired as a senior paralegal for the Frank W. Ricci
immigration law firm of West Palm Beach. Ahlering was a senior case worker in
New Jersey. She completed her schooling at the Law Enforcement Training Center
in Glynco, Ga.  She received her paralegal training in immigration law at the
Center for Immigrants' Rights in New York City.

DAVID BAGWELL has been named vice president and general manager of PGA National
Resort & Spa in Palm Beach Gardens. Bagwell was vice president of sales and
marketing for Buena Vista Palace at Walt Disney World Village.

Coppola's Cafe, an Italian restaurant in Boca Raton, has announced the following
two new hires:

PHILLIP DUFFY of Deerfield Beach, hired as catering chef. Duffy was a chef at
Nick's Italian Fishery in Boca Raton.

LUIZ SOUZA of Boca Raton, hired as executive chef. Souza was executive chef for
Saint Tropez in Boca Raton.

A. MACK GAITHER has been hired as director of marketing and leasing for
RJS/Jackson Management Group of Boca Raton. Gaither was project manager for
Paragon Group in Tampa and was a leasing representative for Trammell Crow Co. in
Boca Raton. He is a graduate of Harvard University in Massachusetts.

JOHN SCHNEIDER has been hired as director of food and beverage for the Brazilian
Court, a hotel in Palm Beach. Schneider was general manager of Facade, a
nightclub/restaurant in Miami Beach, and managed Yesterday's Restaurant in Fort
Lauderdale. He owned a hotel, the White Coral in Pompano Beach, and is a
graduate of Florida State University.


PROMOTIONS

MICHELLE L. BEAUDET has been named catering sales manger for Morton's of
Chicago, the Steakhouse in West Palm Beach. She has been with the restaurant
since October of 1992 as a server. Beaudet was a server for Ocean Reef Club in
North Key Largo and was a dining room captain with the Basin Harbor Club in
Vermont. She attended Western Michigan University.

STEPHEN F. BELCHER has been named director of marketing and employee benefits at
CJC Acordia of South Florida in West Palm Beach. Belcher was director of sales
and marketing for its Miami office. He is a graduate of Florida State University
and the University of Mississippi.

DONALD D. DAWN has been named managing partner for KPMG Peat Marwick, an
accounting and consulting firm in West Palm Beach. Dawn has been with the firm
since 1977 as a partner. He serves clients in the financial services, real
estate, construction and retail industries.


MISCELLANEOUS

FREDERIC BARTHE has joined the law firm of Rutherford, Minerley & Mulhall in
Boca Raton. Barthe, who will practice immigration law, handled disaster relief
services for the the Small Business Administration in Miami. He is a graduate of
Florida State University.

Win for Kids, a nonprofit organization created to help disadvantaged children in
Palm Beach County, has announced two appointments to its board of trustees:

LEE GORDON of Palm Beach Gardens, appointed to co-chairman of sponsorship
committee. Gordon was an attorney with Boose, Casey, and Ciklin of West Palm
Beach. He is currently a sole practitioner in Palm Beach concentrating on real
estate, probate, estate planning and business law.

ANNE OVERTON of Jupiter, appointed to co-chairman of the reservations committee
for the dinner auction. Overton is the southeast regional manager for Jaeger of
New York and was a store manager for Casual Corner in Michigan.

INFORMATION FOR the Newsmakers' column is welcome.

MAIL ANNOUNCEMENTS TO: Business Newsmakers, Business Day One, care of The Palm
Beach Post, P.O Box 24700, West Palm Beach, FL 33416-4700.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (12 B&W), 1. Belle Ahlering (mug), 2.David Bagwell (mug),
3.Phillip Duffy (mug), 4.Luiz Souza (mug), 5.A. Mack Gaither (mug), 6.John
Schneider (mug), 7.Michelle L. Beaudet (mug), 8.Stephen F. Belcher (mug),
9.Donald D. Dawn (mug), 10.Frederic Barthe (mug), 11.Lee Gordon (mug), 12.Anne
Overton (mug)

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              46 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 11, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

CHANGING OF ASYLUM RULES URGED

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The United States must reform its political asylum practices to control the flow
of illegal immigration, an advocate of stronger immigration laws said Thursday.

If they get 2 feet in the country and say two magic words - political asylum -
they are in,'' said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

Stein, speaking to about 250 people at the Palm Beach Round Table, said the only
way to control asylum fraud is to require applicants to make the claim before
they reach the United States.

People just walk in and disappear,'' he said.  There is no detention space.'' He
said they are not deported unless they are a threat to national security or bomb
the World Trade Center.''

Stein's appearance at the Ra-mada Resort Hotel drew pickets on both sides of the
issue.

A group called Floridians for Immigration Reform carried signs including one
that said, Send Aristide and his Refugees back to Haiti.''

A group called Refuse and Resist carried a banner that said, Stop the U.S. War
on Immigration.'' One man who held the banner disrupted Stein's talk and accused
him of advocating ethnic cleansing.''

As you can see, this issue is controversial,'' Stein told his audience.

In Washington, a representative of labor groups called on the Clinton
administration Thursday to toughen the trade embargo against Haiti.

Charles Kernaghan, spokesman for the National Labor Committee, a group of 23
international unions, said 50 U.S. companies continue to import goods from Haiti
despite the U.S. economic embargo of the island.

Kernaghan said the companies are allowed to trade with Haiti because of a
loophole in the embargo that allows them to send materials to their subsidiaries
in Haiti or to Haitian-owned contractors to be assembled and returned to the
United States. The loophole was established during the Bush administration.

We believe that this sends the wrong message to the Haitian military and their
business elite supporters,'' Kernaghan said.  Trade was up 73 percent with Haiti
in 1993. What embargo? What sanctions?''

Staff writer Larry Lipman contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              47 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 11, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

BAHAMIAN: HAITIANS EXPLOIT U.S. POLICY

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


Haitians are fleeing the Bahamas because they know that U.S. immigration
officials will not detain women and children who enter illegally, Hubert
Ingraham, Bahamas prime minister, said Thursday.

That has become widely known among Haitians in the Bahamas, and they have taken
advantage of it,'' Ingraham said.

The prime minister denied Haitians are being kicked out of his country and says
such allegations are unfair to the tourism-dependent island chain.

We remain proud that we have done the best we can and challenge those who say
that our eye is blackened to do likewise,'' Ingraham said. He said his
government opens schools, health clinics and social services to Haitians for
humanitarian reasons.

The Bahamian chief of state said he is saddened that more than 100 Haitians who
entered illegally have been held in a Nassau prison for up to 10 months. He said
the Bahamas has no way to repatriate them and doesn't want to release them
because of high unemployment in his country.

Ingraham's observation about the detention of women and children in the United
States is accurate, said Richard Kenney, a spokesman for the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Washington. He said the INS has the authority to
detain women and children but usually releases them because of lack of detention
space.

Their experience is that they come to the United States and don't get detained,
and that's what they are putting in the letter back home,'' Kenney said.

Ingraham, in Palm Beach to talk to companies interested in investing in the
Bahamas, denounced the smuggling trade from the Bahamas that earlier this week
resulted in the deaths of four Haitians dropped in the surf in Martin County.

Law enforcement officers in Marsh Harbor on the Abacos island are stepping up
enforcement, and boat rental agencies are more cautious about renting to
suspicious people, he said. Ingraham said it appears that punishment handed out
by U.S. courts is not a deterrent to smuggling.

One Bahamian that was caught for smuggling was sentenced to three years in
prison. Under your system, three years in prison doesn't mean three years in
prison,'' he said.

We will do everything we can to limit and eliminate smuggling, but smuggling is
an exercise that even a great country like the United States is unable to
prevent,'' he said.

Many of the estimated 20,000 to 40,000 Haitians living illegally in the Bahamas
want to come to the United States, he said.

We have been acting as a training ground. They come unable to speak English, and
they have no skills. They work illegally and export those skills to America.
This process occurs over and over.''

Ingraham denied that Haitians are being forced out because his government is
revoking their Bahamian work permits, as some human rights activists have
alleged.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), CAROLINE E. COUIG/Staff Photographer, Bahamas Prime Minister
Hubert Ingraham (left) visits with Luis J. Fernandez of Florida Crystals
Thursday before the Business Development Board of Palm Beach County luncheon.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              48 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 16, 1994 THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL ON HOLD UNTIL FALL, RENO SAYS

BYLINE: SHANNON JOHNSON; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration does not plan to push for passage of an immigration
reform bill until after a national commission reports on the issue this fall,
Attorney General Janet Reno told a congressional panel Wednesday.

Reno testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee as several senators said
current policies were allowing a flood of immigrants to bankrupt their states.

I agree that the American people want something done,'' Reno told the panel but
added that Congress should await a September report by the bipartisan Commission
on Immigration Reform and carefully evaluate its recommendations before enacting
basic changes to our immigration law.''

However, the Immigration and Naturalization Service does have plans to increase
the border patrol force, remove criminal immigrants and reform the process for
granting political asylum, she said.

By October 1996, the INS will add 1,010 agents to its Border Patrol force of
4,000, Reno said. She also said that the agency plans to deport 22,000 criminal
immigrants this year, twice as many as it did in 1993.

Reno urged Congress to approve $ 300 million proposed in the pending crime bill
to pay for these initiatives.

She also said the administration has asked for $ 350 million in the fiscal 1995
budget to help states pay for incarcerated immigrants.

An estimated 3.8 million illegal immigrants are in the United States, and that
number is increasing by 300,000 yearly, Reno said.

Our schools, our hospitals, our social services, our prisons are being
overwhelmed by the federal government's failure to control our borders. . . .
The patience of the American people is dissipating,'' said Sen. Kay Bailey
Hutchison, R-Texas.

Texas plans to follow Florida, California and Arizona in suing the federal
government for reimbursement of immigration costs.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              49 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 16, 1994 THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL ON HOLD UNTIL FALL, RENO SAYS

BYLINE: SHANNON JOHNSON; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration does not plan to push for passage of an immigration
reform bill until after a national commission reports on the issue this fall,
Attorney General Janet Reno told a congressional panel Wednesday.

Reno testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee as several senators said
current policies were allowing a flood of immigrants to bankrupt their states.

''I agree that the American people want something done,'' Reno told the panel
but added that Congress should await a September report by the bipartisan
Commission on Immigration Reform and ''carefully evaluate its recommendations
before enacting basic changes to our immigration law.''

However, the Immigration and Naturalization Service does have plans to increase
the border patrol force, remove criminal immigrants and reform the process for
granting political asylum, she said.

By October 1996, the INS will add 1,010 agents to its Border Patrol force of
4,000, Reno said. She also said that the agency plans to deport 22,000 criminal
immigrants this year, twice as many as it did in 1993.

Reno urged Congress to approve $ 300 million proposed in the pending crime bill
to pay for these initiatives.

She also said the administration has asked for $ 350 million in the fiscal 1995
budget to help states pay for incarcerated immigrants.

An estimated 3.8 million illegal immigrants are in the United States, and that
number is increasing by 300,000 yearly, Reno said.

''Our schools, our hospitals, our social services, our prisons are being
overwhelmed by the federal government's failure to control our borders. . . .
The patience of the American people is dissipating,'' said Sen. Kay Bailey
Hutchison, R-Texas.

Texas plans to follow Florida, California and Arizona in suing the federal
government for reimbursement of immigration costs.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              50 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 9, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN REFUGEE SURGE HARDLY STUNNING'

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 202 words


About last week's article 1,300 refugees stun U.S.,'' which reported that U.S.
immigration officials were surprised at the surge in immigrants from Haiti:
Relaxed immigration restrictions resulted in the flood of Haitian refugees
leaving. How U.S. officials could be stunned'' by this is beyond comprehension,
illustrating that bureaucrats have little idea how the policies they create
affect citizens.

These same officials suddenly became aware of how the increased number of
immigrants would affect South Florida economically and politically. These issues
were not a consideration when they caved in to pressure from floodgate
immigration liberals, blacks and people with a penchant for altruism.

In response to the flood of refugees, instead of curbing the number admitted,
military intervention in Haiti was being viewed as a possibility. Using
increased immigration as an excuse to send in troops is ridiculous.

Benjamin A. Klima

West Palm Beach

Editor's note: President Clinton shifted policy Tuesday and said that no more
refugees intercepted at sea would be allowed in the U.S., but the military
option is still on the table,'' said William Gray, the top presidential adviser
on Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              51 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   August 31, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

66 HAITIANS RESCUED AT SEA; U.S. DECIDING DETENTION SITE

BYLINE: WILLIAM HOWARD; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: JUPITER


More than 60 Haitians found about 10 miles offshore Tuesday morning remained at
sea Tuesday night as federal officials considered their future.

Coast Guard and immigration officials were deliberating whether to take them to
an Immigration and Naturalization detention center in the United States or the
U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, where Haitians and Cubans are being detained
in separate camps.

The Haitians' boat, about 30 feet long, was found adrift about 9:45 a.m. by
fishing boat captain Robert Gernheuser, who was on a charter about 10 miles east
of Jupiter Inlet.

The Haitians waved at Gernheuser's boat Blue Moon and held up small children.
Gernheuser went alongside and gave them some water while waiting for the Coast
Guard to arrive.

A sheriff's office boat and Coast Guardsmen stayed with the boat, towing it
south to correct for the current. Later in the afternoon, the Haitians were
taken aboard the 82-foot cutter Point Steele, which had been working with Cuban
rafters in the Keys.

Initial reports said about 30 people were on the boat, which had no name and no
numbers.

But after taking them aboard the Point Steele, the Coast Guard counted 66
Haitians, including a dozen children and several infants. Many were wearing
their best clothes.

A Coast Guard interpreter interviewed the Haitians and sent a report to federal
agencies involved in immigration policy, including INS and the Coast Guard.

''Now it's just a matter of waiting for Washington to direct us what to do with
them,'' said Petty Officer Steve Sapp of the Coast Guard group headquarters in
Miami.

During the wait, the cutter drifted north and was off Fort Pierce around 6:30
p.m. Guardsmen towed the empty boat back to Peanut Island.

At 10:30 p.m., the Coast Guard was still waiting for a decision from Washington
on what to do with the Haitians.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              52 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 21, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

U.S. STILL GRANTING ASYLUM TO HAITIANS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 336 words


Political asylum will continue to be granted to Haitians who fear their county's
military rulers until peace and stability are established in the Caribbean
nation, immigration officials said Tuesday.

''It's too early to make any assessment on the political situation there,'' said
Erich Cauller, director of the Miami asylum office of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

But the standards for granting political asylum to Haitians could change when
democratic rule returns.

''Obviously, if it goes the way the U.S. government wishes, then it probably
will have an adverse affect on most pending political asylum claims from
Haitians,'' Cauller said.

To win political asylum, refugees must show a well-founded fear of persecution
if they are returned to Haiti. About 14,000 Haitian political asylum cases are
pending in the Miami office, which has jurisdiction for Florida, Puerto Rico and
the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Cauller estimated that his office rules on about 20 Haitian political asylum
cases a day. If denied asylum, refugees are sent to an immigration judge for
deportation but can renew their asylum request before the judge. If again
denied, refugees can appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals in Washington
D.C.

For the 14,000 Haitians detained at the U.S. Navy base in Guantanamo, the
restoration of democracy in Haiti would most likely would mean they would return
to Haiti. Those Haitians are not able to apply for asylum and are considered in
a temporary ''safe haven'' status.

Haitian advocates say most refugees have a well-founded fear of persecution as
long as Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras remains in control of the military.

''If the Haitian military remains potent, which it looks like it will, then
people will have a good asylum claim,'' said Steven Forester, an attorney with
the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami.

Forester said even when Jean-Bertrand Aristide returns to Haiti to restore
democratic government, refugees may have valid fears of returning.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              53 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 11, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

TALKS ON REFUGEES ONLY LEGITIMIZE CASTRO

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 208 words


I read your recent editorial ''Open talks with Cuba, not America's borders'' and
wish to clarify some facts for you:

Fact 1. The mass exodus in August ended when Fidel Castro closed the doors to
freedom, not when President Clinton listened to Gov. Chiles and detained all the
rafters in camps. In fact, they had kept coming in spite of detention.

Fact 2. Cuban rafters don't leave their homeland because America teaches them
that it will eventually cave in. They leave their homeland because they live
under total oppression.

Fact 3. If you think the new system is more humane for Cubans, take a good look
at recent pictures from Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. And if you think the new
system is better for America, take a look at the embarrassing things that human
rights watchdogs are saying about America and cast your righteous eye on the
lawsuit filed in U.S. court condemning the unlawful detention of rafters by our
government.

An immigration policy already exists regarding Cuban immigration (the Cuban
Adjustment Act). It's a shame that we as a nation are allowing Castro to rewrite
our immigration policies based on his threats. Why legitimize his tyranny by
opening talks with him?

M. Magdalena Chibas

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W) , 1994 FILE PHOTO, A Cuban refugee being held with
thousands of others at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base passes a note to a man who
visited to perform religious services Sept. 8.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              54 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 15, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN REFUGEES STILL LAND, STILL STAY

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Verna Claxemus, 28, sailed into an immigration policy time warp two weeks ago
when he landed on the shores of Palm Beach with 26 other Haitian refugees.

Although Haiti was invaded by U.S. troops and President Jean-Bertrand Aristide
was restored to power three months ago, time has stood still for Haitians
seeking political asylum in the United States. They are treated the same as
before the invasion and need not fear detention or speedy deportation.

''Basically, our policy has not changed on that yet,'' said Don Mueller, a
spokesman for the U.S. Department of Immigration and Naturalization in
Washington. ''We have a lot of things under review, but I don't know when we
would have that change forthcoming.''

In the past three months, the U.S. Border Patrol has picked up 56 Haitians
entering Palm Beach County illegally. All were released to community
organizations in South Florida.

Also, Haitians who were denied political asylum and who have exhausted
immigration appeals have not been deported, except for 14 who were convicted of
crimes in Florida, Mueller said.

''So, we've had a moratorium for some period on returning non-criminal
Haitians,'' Mueller said.

As Claxemus found, a claim of political asylum remains a promising ticket to
American opportunities.

''I want to go to school, to learn computers,'' said Claxemus, who is staying
with friends in Pompano Beach. He said he had five years of schooling in Haiti
and no job. A cousin said Claxemus had been living in the Bahamas for two to
three years before coming to the United States on Dec. 30.

Claxemus, who speaks little English, said he is afraid to go back to Haiti
because of the problems. He said he had not yet applied for political asylum,
but intends to file soon.

The no-change policy is drawing fire from a local congressman and from
immigration reform groups who say Haitians are taking advantage of a lax U.S.
policy.

''I'm surprised that it's still allowed,'' said U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, a
Republican from Lake Worth. ''With the restoration, hopefully, of democracy in
Haiti, that should cancel out any new or pending political asylum requests.''

Moreover, the delay in policy change means more Haitians may be tempted to enter
the United States illegally, Foley said.

Most Haitians simply want to stay and work in the United States and do not have
legitimate asylum claims, said David Ray of Jacksonville, a field director for
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a lobbying group that supports
stronger enforcement of immigration laws.

''What we've proposed is to have a 24-hour turnaround,'' Ray said. ''You are
given a hearing (on the merits of an asylum claim) and you are either sent back
home or allowed to stay.''

Instead, he said, applicants are allowed to remain in the country for several
years while their case slowly works its way through hearings and appeals.

An advocate for Haitian refugees said continued violence in Haiti warrants some
political asylum claims.

Despite troop patrols in the cities, the Haitian countryside remains dangerous
and the country is ''explosive,'' said Edy Sanon, a volunteer at the Haitian
American Community Council in Delray Beach.

''The people have good reason to seek political asylum in the United States,''
Sanon said. ''They are afraid to return.''

Sanon said many Haitians want to get a green card to allow them to remain in the
United States before returning to Haiti to live. That way, they can flee to the
United States without any delay in the event Haiti explodes anew.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/Staff Photographer, Verna Claxemus,
who landed on Palm Beach with 26 other Haitian refugees, is staying with friends
in Pompano Beach.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              55 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 16, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT FOES QUERY PROMOTER

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


Leaders of a citizens group pushing for immigration controls question the
credibility of an Orlando-based movement for a Florida immigration referendum
and may offer a referendum of their own.

Joanne Peart said she had questions about the Orlando promoter of the referendum
and what his referendum might say. Peart is co-founder of a Delray Beach-based
group called Floridians for Immigration Control.

''We want to make sure it's a credible group and proposition before we endorse
it,'' Peart told about 35 of her members at a meeting Thursday. ''We may want to
do one of our own.''

After the meeting, Peart said the Orlando promoter, Doug Guetzloe, may make
money from the referendum drive because he's in the political consulting
business and has represented referendum petitions before.

At a press conference last week, Guetzloe announced that he was forming a
political committee with a goal of raising $ 1 million to collect the necessary
430,000 signatures and put a question on the 1996 Florida ballot similar to
California's Proposition 187.

California voters passed an amendment last year that would deny education,
welfare and non-emergency health care to undocumented workers. Courts have
stayed enforcement of the amendment.

Peart's group was invited to Guetzloe's press conference but no members
attended.

''We don't know how much support he has,'' Peart said. ''If he doesn't have
support, then we might do it ourselves and not use a political consultant.''

Peart and co-founder Nancy Jacobs of Boca Raton are planning a trip to
California Jan. 26 to consult with Proposition 187 leaders and attend a board
meeting of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Peart and Jacobs prefer that Congress or the Florida Legislature take action to
restrict social services to illegal immigrants and avoid a controversial and
costly referendum campaign.

''It's nothing we want to do,'' Peart said. ''It's a last resort. In California
they did it because nothing else worked.''

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              56 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

ACTIVISTS DEFEND IMMIGRATION CURBS: 'WE ARE NOT HATERS'

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


There is nothing in JoAnn Peart's small-town, picket-fence past that made her a
natural choice to lead a statewide movement against immigration policy.

For years, her civic interests were confined to the neighborhood. Schools,
historic preservation, tree planting. Turmoil in her life was restricted to
family meals and teenagers and big dogs running free in her sprawling Old
Florida house with wood floors and open windows. There was never a need to
protect her privacy from news reporters and allegations of racism.

That changed seven months ago when Peart and a new acquaintance, Nancy Jacobs of
Boca Raton, formed Floridians for Immigration Control. It's one of two groups in
the state that may promote a 1996 referendum to deny social services to
undocumented immigrants.

Life hasn't been the same since.

''Gosh, I never thought just because we were saying what everybody else was
thinking that I would become a celebrity,'' Peart said after a recent meeting of
her organization at the Delray Beach Community Center.

Peart, 45, and Jacobs, 60, preside over the meetings that draw 30 to 50 people
on the second Thursday of each month. About 200 people receive mailings.
Membership costs $ 15 a year.

The group is close to deciding to go ahead with a campaign that would closely
resemble the Proposition 187 movement that was passed overwhelmingly by voters
in California last year.

The members of Floridians for Immigration Control are a collection of
blue-collar workers, retired conservatives and self-described patriots. Missing
are the wealthy and the immigrants, except for a Cuban-American named Sonia
Alonso, who complains that immigrants come to American seeking handouts.

''They are coming because they know they can abuse this country,'' Alonso said
in thickly accented English. ''They are coming to live off the fat of the
land.''

Alonso, who is married to an American and lives in Boca Raton, says she includes
her fellow countrymen in her views. Most of the Cubans waiting in limbo at the
U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo are ''delinquents,'' she says.

For Peart and Jacobs, Alonso is proof that their cause to control immigration is
not bigoted against other cultures.

''Our major concern is that people understand we are not a racist
organization,'' said Jacobs, a former flight attendant who is of Irish descent
and married to a Jew. ''We are not haters. We are just concerned because we have
lost control of our borders.''

At the meetings, the debates sometimes transcend immigration control. Members
complain of the costs of welfare, Puerto Rico's status as a U.S. commonwealth,
crowded schools, mixed cultures and the new ''motor-voter'' law that lets
citizens register to vote at driver license and welfare offices.

Using immigration to explain the cause of many urban problems is the same path
of reason followed by Peart. She believes the problems of rundown housing, cars
parked haphazardly along streets instead of driveways and crowded classrooms can
be traced to the city's thousands and thousands of new Haitian immigrants.

Her work as a civic activist on housing, beautification, education and historic
issues led her to that conclusion.

''When I got into it, I thought immigration was too many Haitians in Delray
Beach than the town could absorb reasonably,'' she said.

But taking up the immigration fight has caused some black activists in the
community to question her motives.

''She's very anti-Haitian,'' said Daniella Henry, a Haitian-American who runs a
social service agency for Haitians in downtown Delray Beach. While a member of
the city's Neighborhood Task Team in 1993, Henry said, Peart recommended a city
code to prevent members of different families living in the same house. The code
was not adopted.

''They were targeting the Haitians, and she was behind it,'' Henry said.

Rosalind Murray, who also sits on community boards, says Peart's group is
motivated by racism, ''whether they realize it or not.''

''I've heard her say things like she wishes for the good old days,'' said
Murray, who is black. ''We think the good old days were when restaurants were
segregated and blacks were not allowed on the public beaches.''

Bonnie Brow, who has known Peart for 10 years, says she has an open mind about
other cultures.

'She's not a person to go out and incite enemies,'' said Brow. ''I'm sure the
controversial part doesn't thrill her.''

Peart seems ambivalent about the value of embracing several cultures. At times
she talks about the foreign students from Peru, Spain, Norway and Germany who
have stayed in her home during tennis tournaments. She has traveled to Europe,
Mexico and the Bahamas and says her husband's favorite music is Cuban.

But immigrants should adopt this country's culture and language, she says.

Peart is outraged that Cuban-Americans would propose to change the name of Miami
Beach's Collins Avenue, named for pioneer developer John Collins. The request by
Hispanic business owners to rename the hotel-lined boulevard after Cuban patriot
Jose Marti was rejected by the city. Instead, a three-block street intersecting
Collins was named for Marti last year.

''I don't think we should take in people so fast that we give up our own history
and traditions and language to accommodate new people,'' Peart said. ''We are
becoming so invaded and so bombarded that, I tell you, I'm starting to lose
interest in other cultures.''

Peart needs only to look at Atlantic High School a few blocks away to find an
example of how a foreign culture changes the environment of her two teenage
children, who attend the school. She says a teacher at the school told her 400
Haitian students are enrolled there.

School officials estimate the number at about 250, with another 250
American-born blacks adding to the enrollment of the 2,043-student school.

Peart says the issue is not just overcrowding but where the new students are
coming from.

''If they were coming from Kansas, that would mean they are paying taxes and
their grandparents paid taxes and they speak English and don't need special,
smaller classes with aides,'' Peart said.

Peart speaks with the passion of a new convert to the movement. Although a
veteran community volunteer in schools, hospitals and code boards, her knowledge
of national immigration issues is new and influenced by the movement's
doctrines.

Her studies include a paperback called The Immigration Invasion. The book
portrays immigration as a menace with such assertions that a ''frightening
portion'' of immigrants come to America not to work but to steal. The book is
sold at Floridians for Immigration Control meetings for $ 2 a copy.

Peart was involved in early 1994 with a more radical group called Floridians
First that picketed congressional offices and planned to demonstrate at the Palm
Beach mansion of Sen. Ted Kennedy. Peart said she left the group because of its
combative tactics.

In the spring, Jacobs called Peart to ask about joining an immigration control
group and discovered no mainstream organization existed. So the two formed
Floridians for Immigration Control and had their first meeting in July.

Both Peart and Jacobs say they have sacrificed much of their personal time to
the organization. But they say it's important to try to force changes in
immigration policy.

Even if it dredges up allegations of prejudice.

''We have this built-in guilt mechanism in this county,'' Peart said. ''Just
common-sense things are called racist. It's gotten so blown out of proportion
that anyone who calls me a racist anymore, I don't care.''

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C), 1. Nancy Jacobs (mug)., 2. JoAnn Pearl (mug).

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              57 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 17, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

INS PUSHES DEADLINE BACK

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


A deadline crunch for people holding green cards is over.

Monday was the announced deadline for immigrants with old-style green cards to
obtain updated replacements, but on Thursday immigration officials in Washington
changed signals, saying the cards don't have to be replaced until March 20,
1996.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had wanted to replace the old cards
with new ones that were harder to falsify. But the agency was swamped by
last-minute applications from frightened card-holders.

At the INS office at 4360 Northlake Blvd., up to 250 people a day waited in line
each morning at 6 a.m. to change the cards. Appointment numbers went to the
first 200 who arrived, and the remainder were told to return another day.

Frank Ricci, a private immigration attorney, said earlier in the week that a
posted INS notice showing a ticking clock and Monday's date was scaring people.

''I talked to a woman who was crying hysterically and said she's been in the
country for 34 years and doesn't want to be deported,'' Ricci said.

The green card renewal and long lines were upsetting to many of the longtime
U.S. residents who are required by law to exchange their cards.

The INS announced last year that all noncitizens granted residency status in the
United States before 1979 had until March 20 to replace their green cards. The
application requires photographs, fingerprints and a $ 75 fee.

Before the deadline was extended for a year, INS officials said no penalty
existed for filing after March 20, although applicants who left the country and
sought re-entry could be questioned by immigration officials about why they
didn't have updated cards.

''It's not going to be anything so serious to make them go into secondary
inspection,'' said INS spokeswoman Lisa Jacobs. ''They are not going to be
turned away.''

Sharon Mallory, a supervisor at the Northlake Boulevard office, said that ''if
they miss the 20th, the world is not going to end.'' But until Thursday's
deadline change was announced, she said, some holders of green cards were
concerned they'd lose their permanent residency status if they didn't file by
March 20.

''They are afraid they are going to be deported or something horrible,'' Mallory
said. ''(But) people are not going to lose their residency status.''

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C), Photos by SHERMAN ZENT/Staff Photographer, (1) At 6 a.m.
Wednesday, immigrants who began getting in line at 3 a.m. are let inside the INS
office on Northlake Boulevard to get new green cards., (2) During the rush, 200
people were allowed inside, then the doors closed for the day.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              58 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              March 22, 1995, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LAWYER: INS AGENT RUINED MY PRACTICE

BYLINE: VAL ELLICOTT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


An ''evil'' federal agent destroyed the law practice of immigration attorney
Michael Blank eight years ago in a reckless bid to prove allegations of fraud
and bribery, Blank's attorney told a federal judge Tuesday.

Blank, 44, is suing the U.S. government for $ 20 million, saying immigration
agent Darrell Brewer drove him out of business over a two-year period by making
sure Blank's clients never received action on their visa applications.

''They weren't approved, they weren't disapproved,'' Blank's attorney, Robert
Romani, said of the applications. ''They just sat there.''

Brewer, now retired with a hearing disability, was ''hellbent'' on destroying
Blank's $ 700,000-a-year practice as part of a misguided campaign in the
mid-1980s to prove Blank had bribed two immigration inspectors in Riviera Beach
to approve his clients' applications, Romani told U.S. District Judge Daniel
T.K. Hurley.

The bribery allegations were never substantiated, Romani noted.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Larry Rosen countered that Brewer was acting in good
faith on tips that Blank not only bribed immigration officials but helped
British national Peter Miller dupe British citizens into making investments in
the United States that were supposed to improve their chances of gaining
residency but instead bankrupted them.

''This is the type of fraud in which people liquidated everything they had,''
Rosen told Hurley, who is presiding over the nonjury trial. ''People were losing
their life savings.''

Rosen conceded that Brewer's investigative techniques may have been
''heavy-handed.''

Federal agents ''don't get paid to go out there and be everybody's friend,'' he
said.

Blank's case relies heavily on a 1989 report from U.S. Magistrate Ann Vitunac
that recommended dismissal of conspiracy and fraud charges against Blank and
accused Brewer and a federal prosecutor of ''gross misconduct'' for misleading a
grand jury about Blank's success record.

Brewer and the prosecutor, Robert Cornell, won an indictment against Blank in
1988 partly by contending that Blank had lied when he told prospective clients
he was 100 percent successful with visa applications.

The indictment was dismissed after Vitunac noted that Blank's claim had been
justified before Brewer arranged to have applications put on indefinite hold.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              59 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 7, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

COUNT DOWN AND OUT: PLAYBOY TO BE DEPORTED

BYLINE: VAL ELLICOTT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Count Jean de la Moussaye, a scandal-prone bon vivant whose romantic
indiscretions are the stuff of tabloid dreams, is on his way back to his native
France for allegedly missing a deportation hearing last year.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials took de la Moussaye to
Krome Detention Center in Miami on Thursday, the day after the count was charged
by Palm Beach police with possession of cocaine and driving with a suspended
license in an unrelated case.

''According to INS, he will be deported to France tomorrow,'' said attorney
David Roth, who is representing de la Moussaye in the cocaine case.

The deportation hearing in July apparently concerned allegations in France that
de la Moussaye once tried to fence stolen jewels. The chain-smoking, ex-race-car
driver said in 1990, while appearing on a radio talk show, that he spent time in
a ''very comfortable'' prison in France just after his arrest on the charges.

Roth, who does not handle immigration cases, is looking for an immigration
attorney to represent de la Moussaye.

If the 34-year-old count is barred from returning to the United States, Palm
Beach will have lost a ranking member of one of its trademark social sets, a
casually decadent jet-setter who was a fixture at the island's trendiest
nightclubs.

De la Moussaye, who traces his lineage back to Louis XIV, acquired notoriety
first through a hot-and-cold-running relationship with Roxanne Pulitzer - their
romance made headlines while the count was obtaining a divorce - and later
through allegations that he had sex with a lingerie model who had posed for
photos on his race car.

In 1993, de la Moussaye talked to local writer Linda Marx about his relationship
with Pulitzer. Marx's subsequent story in Penthouse magazine told of sex toys,
drugs and limo lovemaking.

It was not certain Thursday what will happen to de la Moussaye's daughter, 7,
and his son, 5. The count won custody of the children last year after a legal
battle with his ex-wife, Francine Ryan.

Ryan said Thursday that the children are with her because she typically has them
from Wednesday to Friday. They also were supposed to stay with her through the
weekend, she said.

''I'm confused myself,'' she said. ''I don't know what's going on.''

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Jean de la Moussaye (mug)

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              60 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 12, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

UNHAPPY REPUBLICANS START CITIZENSHIP DRIVE FOR CUBANS

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A campaign to help thousands of Dade County immigrants become U.S. citizens was
launched Tuesday by two Cuban-born Republican members of Congress who oppose
their party's anti-refugee stance.

U.S. Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart announced a ''One
Nation'' campaign to help more than 200,000 legal residents complete their
citizenship paperwork. Volunteers will open offices and organize membership
drives, which will alleviate the Immigration and Naturalization Service
workload. INS has a backlog of 50,000 citizenship applications in Miami alone
but can handle only 5,000 a month.

The two Republicans started the campaign because the welfare reform bill passed
the U.S. House last month. The bill would prevent the nation's 2.2 million
documented immigrants from receiving food stamps, health care insurance and
other social services until they become citizens.

Although President Clinton has vowed to veto the legislation, Ros-Lehtinen and
Diaz-Balart said the citizenship drive will help allay the fears of Dade's legal
immigrants who depend on government assistance.

''This is a security blanket for these people,'' said Ros-Lehtinen.

Across the nation, hundreds of thousands of immigrants have applied for
citizenship to avoid being cut out of social services by the welfare bill. Both
Ros-Lehtinen and Diaz-Balart refused to endorse the GOP's Contract With America
because of the bill.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE/REGIONAL NEWS Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              61 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  April 18, 1995, Tuesday Correction Appended
                                  FINAL EDITION

UNHAPPY COUNT FLOWN TO FRANCE

BYLINE: MITCH McKENNEY and CHRISTINE STAPLETON

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 273 words


Count Jean de la Moussaye is officially a former Palm Beacher. At least for now.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service put him on a one-way American
Airlines flight out of Miami a week ago today, returning him to his native
France for allegedly missing a 1994 deportation hearing.

The former race-car driver perhaps best known for his headline-grabbing divorce
from Roxanne Pulitzer had been held five days in the Krome Detention Center,
following a Palm Beach police arrest April 5 on unrelated charges of cocaine
possession and driving with a suspended license.

INS tried to send de la Moussaye back to France a day earlier, but the car
taking him was in an accident on the way, said attorney David Roth, who is
representing him on the cocaine charges. The count was not injured.

John Christiansen, the lawyer handling the immigration case, said his client was
''excluded,'' not deported, a legal distinction that should make it easier for
the count to return to the United States.

''He's not happy,'' said Christiansen.

According to Christiansen, immigration officials scheduled a hearing last year
to determine if de la Moussaye had overstayed a tourist visa, but the count did
not get any notice because he moved and the mail was not forwarded.

Immigration officials granted the ''exclusion'' as a matter of default,
Christiansen said. He said the immigration proceedings had nothing to do with
the cocaine charges, for which Roth has entered a written not-guilty plea. Roth
expects a June or July trial.

Meanwhile, the count's two children are temporarily living with former wife
Francine Ryan.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 1995

CORRECTION:
Because of a reporting error, The Post on Tuesday incorrectly described Count
Jean de la Moussaye's relationship with Roxanne Pulitzer. They were never
married.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              62 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 19, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

ATTORNEY'S LAWSUIT AGAINST INS AGENT FAILS

BYLINE: VAL ELLICOTT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


An immigration agent had good reasons to suspect that attorney Michael Blank was
part of a scheme to defraud British citizens who wanted to emigrate to the
United States during the 1980s, a federal judge ruled Tuesday.

The ruling by U.S. District Judge Daniel T.K. Hurley rejects Blank's claim that
he was unjustifiably targeted by immigration agent Darrell Brewer in an
investigation that Blank said destroyed his $ 700,000-a-year law practice.

Blank had demanded $ 20 million in damages from the government, but Hurley
awarded him nothing.

''I conclude that he (Brewer) acted professionally, in pursuit of a legitimate
investigation,'' Hurley said in court Tuesday.

He based his ruling largely on testimony from former clients of Blank who said
Blank and businessman Peter Miller conned them into investing large amounts of
money in Miller's companies.

Miller, with Blank's backing, told the would-be immigrants the investments would
help them qualify for long-term visas in the U.S., former clients testified last
week. Some said they lost their life savings in the deals.

''In truth, Mr. Miller was operating a scam,'' Hurley said. ''Ultimately, he
duped about $ 1 million from unsuspecting investors.''

One of Blank's former clients, Nicholas Randell of Wellington, said he was
arrested in 1986 by the Border Patrol because he was following Blank's advice to
live and work in the U.S. on a tourist visa, which is illegal.

''I think it's very good news,'' Randell said of Hurley's decision. ''I think it
would have been very unjust if he (Blank) had gotten anything.''

Blank, represented by attorney Robert Romani, had claimed Brewer was
''hellbent'' on destroying his law practice as part of a misguided campaign to
prove Blank had bribed two immigration inspectors in Riviera Beach to approve
his clients' applications.

Brewer and a federal prosecutor won an indictment against Blank and Miller in
1988 that accused them of defrauding dozens of British citizens they persuaded
to immigrate illegally to the U.S. The indictment was dismissed after a federal
magistrate accused Brewer and the prosecutor of ''gross misconduct'' for
''presenting false and misleading statements'' to grand jurors.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              63 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 11, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRATION ORGANIZATION TO LAUNCH FLORIDA BALLOT DRIVE

BYLINE: ERICA SHAFFER

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A new grassroots group has entered the immigration reform debate to stop what
its spokesman calls the ''colonization of Florida.''

Robb Ross, executive director of the FLA-187 Committee, appeared at a news
conference Wednesday to outline the group's plans to place four amendments to
the Florida Constitution on the November 1996 ballot.

The group, based in Boca Raton and Delray Beach, will put about 100,000
petitions onto Florida streets by next week to begin collecting the necessary
signatures, he said.

''We decided that if immigration reform was not taken on at the national level
or by the Florida state Legislature, then volunteer activists would have to come
together and effect a change,'' Ross said.

The amendments would:

Deny illegal immigrants welfare and other social services except for emergency
health care.

Deny the children of illegal immigrants public education.

Implement English as the official language of Florida and prohibit any
government entity from proclaiming itself bilingual.

Promote cooperation between federal immigration officials and state and local
governments.

The measures resemble the legislative initiative known as Proposition 187
approved by California voters last November.

Ross said 430,000 signatures for each amendment must be collected before they
can be put on the 1996 ballot.

''If we are successful - and we expect to be so - in getting the amendment past
the supreme court of Florida and in collecting the signatures, we are confident
that we will garner between 70 and 75 percent of the vote come November 1996,''
Ross said.

Immigration advocates could not be reached for comment.

Ross spoke at a conference sponsored by the Federation for American Immigration
Reform.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              64 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 5, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

PANEL TO URGE CUTTING LEGAL IMMIGRATION BY ONE-THIRD

BYLINE: ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1044 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A federal advisory commission will soon recommend gradually reducing legal
immigration by one-third and reshuffling visa priorities to speed the admission
of spouses and young children of legal immigrants.

The proposals, to be presented to Congress this month, would make the biggest
changes in more than 40 years in policies governing the selection of legal
immigrants.

The panel would clear up a huge backlog of visa applications from immediate
relatives of permanent resident immigrants.  But it would also eliminate
longstanding visa preferences for siblings and adult children of U.S. citizens.

The nine-member advisory panel, the Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by
former U.S. Rep. Barbara Jordan of Texas, will emphasize the importance of the
nuclear family as the basic unit of immigration, members said.

Under the panel's recommendations, immediate relatives of United States citizens
- spouses, children under 21 and parents - would still be allowed to immigrate
without a waiting period.

But panel members said they would recommend eliminating immigration preferences
that have been granted for decades to other close relatives: brothers, sisters
and adult children of citizens. In general, those relatives could not get visas
to immigrate unless they qualified because of job skills.

The commission's proposals are likely to be influential on Capitol Hill because
Congress created the commission, appointed eight of the nine members and is
seeking new ways to overcome deep disagreements on immigration policy. Many
Republican lawmakers favor new limits, but some, like Dick Armey of Texas, the
House majority leader, see immigration as an engine of economic growth.

In addition, the recommendations come at a time when many Americans are
expressing concern about immigration, legal and illegal. In November, California
voters approved a ballot measure that would make illegal immigrants ineligible
for public education and most social services. Judges have held up its
enforcement while they sort through legal challenges.

In March, the House of Representatives approved a bill that would deny welfare,
food stamps and Medicaid to legal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants play role

Some commission members suggested that public concern about illegal immigration
was inevitably affecting public attitudes toward legal immigration.

One member of the panel, Bruce A. Morrison, a former Democratic member of
Congress from Connecticut, said: ''Current levels of legal immigration are not a
problem. But in the context of substantial illegal immigration, there is a
problem.''

At a closed meeting, from May 23 to 25 commission members said, they affirmed
the value of legal immigration, but voted to recommend that Congress reduce it
by one-third over the next few years. In the transition period, 700,000
immigrants would be admitted annually. After the transition, 550,000 would be
admitted each year, and that would become the normal level of legal immigration.
By contrast, in the past three years, legal immigration averaged 830,000 a year.

As a corollary, panel members said, Congress should eliminate the large backlog
of visa applications already filed on behalf of the spouses and minor children
of permanent resident immigrants. Congress could do that over three to eight
years, they said.

An immigration expert who worked with the commission said: ''Both sides of the
equation are necessary. Reducing immigration without expediting the entry of
immediate relatives flies in the face of human nature. It will only increase
illegal migration.''

A decade to clear backlog

Susan Martin, executive director of the commission, said there were 1.1 million
would-be immigrants on the waiting list of spouses and minor children of legal
permanent residents. About 850,000 are relatives of illegal immigrants who
gained legal status under an amnesty program created by Congress in 1986. Most
of the others are overseas relatives of recent legal immigrants.

Martin said it would take at least a decade to work through the backlog under
current law.

The panel's major recommendations were approved by votes of 8-1. Commission
members said they were surprised that they had achieved a bipartisan consensus.
The dissenter was Warren R. Leiden, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, whose members represent aliens, their relatives
and employers.

''This is a short-sighted proposal,'' Leiden said.  ''I would support revising
the priorities for family immigration, but cannot support the commission's
proposal to eliminate three of the four existing family preference categories. I
also oppose the reduction of almost 30 percent in the ceiling for
employment-based immigrants.''

Fee proposed on bosses

The commission recommends that the government levy substantial fees on employers
who want to bring in foreign workers. The fees are meant to discourage employers
from hiring foreign workers when Americans are available. Employers willing to
pay the fees could import foreign workers faster than they do now.

Leiden criticized this proposal as a tax on American businesses that use foreign
workers.

The argument that illegal immigration would undermine support for legal
immigration upsets many immigration lawyers. ''In essence, legal immigrants are
being made scapegoats for the inability of Congress and the administration to
control illegal immigration,'' said Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration
law at Cornell Law School.

The proposed changes come just five years after Congress authorized increases in
immigration for certain types of immigrants, including highly skilled workers.

Commission members said they also would recommend eliminating the annual
allotment of 10,000 visas for unskilled workers seeking jobs in the United
States. The commission concluded that these immigrants compete directly with
unskilled American workers and young people entering the labor force.

Many unskilled immigrants work in restaurants and home-care jobs, helping people
who are elderly or disabled. About 79,000 unskilled workers are on the waiting
list in this category. The government is now issuing visas to people who have
been waiting five years.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              65 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 7, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS HELP AMERICA EXCEL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 109 words


President Clinton's Commission on Immigration Reform has recommended that legal
immigration should be restricted dramatically. The commission, headed by former
Democratic Rep. Barbara Jordan, further indicates the skewed thinking of
liberals.

Our country has been built by the waves of legal immigration ever since its
founding.

If the proposed reforms had been in place 100 years ago, how many of our
inventions would never have seen the light of day; how many of our writers would
never have given us the pleasure of their thoughts; how many of us would never
have experienced the joy of being Americans?

William K. Langfan

Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              66 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 2, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

MIGRANTS IN THE MELTING POT;
THOUSANDS BECOME ELIGIBLE FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER 5 YEARS OF WAITING

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 645 words


The number of immigrants in the area seeking U.S. citizenship has tripled this
year and is expected to rise even more during the coming months.

Friday, thousands of farmworkers in Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast
became eligible to file for citizenship. The date marked five years since they
received immigration amnesty under a law to legalize the residency of more than
a million farmworkers nationwide. Immigrants can file for citizenship five years
after being granted legal residency.

The farmworkers will add to the 150 people visiting Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices in Palm Beach Gardens daily. This time last year,
the office handled about 50 people a day.

To serve the wave of applicants, church and nonprofit groups are setting up
programs to teach immigrants how to become citizens and how to fill out
paperwork.

Some businesses are charging applicants $ 500 or more to handle the paperwork,
said Catherine Cassidy, an attorney for Florida Rural Legal Services in Fort
Pierce. Cassidy helped form a coalition of nonprofit groups that charges $ 20
for the service.

The applicant also must pay a $ 95 application fee to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and pass a test in English, American history and
government.

The citizenship traffic has drawn five companies statewide that have been
approved by the INS to administer the exams. One of them, Educational Testing
Services, opened an office in Palm Beach County in March.

For $ 99, the applicant gets a home study course, a copy of the INS
naturalization form and a more convenient place to take the exam, said Dean
Glassman, director of the company's New Citizen Project in Palm Beach County.

Glassman uses classrooms at Palm Beach Atlantic College to administer monthly
exams. He said about 25 applicants are expected at today's exam, but he's
prepared for more in the future.

''We can go to 250 seats if we needed to,'' Glassman said.

Those who choose the cheaper alternative must take the exam at the INS office on
Northlake Boulevard. They still must go there to present their test results and
for final interviews.

Only about 5 percent of citizenship applications are rejected, said INS
spokesman Dan Kane in Washington. Most of those people don't qualify because
they spent more than half the past five years out of the country or they have a
criminal record.

The rush to citizenship is partly because of concerns that Congress may trim
benefits to noncitizens, but that's not the primary motivation, Cassidy said.

''To me, it seems the applicants are thinking that they've been here a long
time, their kids are going to stay here, and this is their country of choice,''
he said.

CITIZENSHIP APPLICATIONS FILED



   Based on budget year ending Sept. 30:
   AREA                               1994                 1995
   Florida                     38,931/year         121,814/year
   Palm Beach/Treasure Coast       50/week             150/week


SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service, Miami district office

WHERE TO GET HELP

PALM BEACH COUNTY

CATHOLIC CHARITIES Immigration and Refugee Services, West Palm Beach, 842-2406

GUATEMALAN MAYAN CENTER, Lake Worth, 547-0085

NEW CITIZENS PROJECT, Educational Testing Services, West Palm Beach, 622-1908

MARTIN

INDIOS COOPERATIVE, Indiantown, 597-3838

CATHOLIC DIOCESE Rural Life Office, Stuart, 286-8580

OKEECHOBEE

EL CENTRO SANTA FE, Okeechobee, (941) 763-8080

ST. LUCIE

IRCC/ESL (SPANISH), 462-4266

UNITED METHODIST Haitian Mission (Creole), 461-4231

CATHOLIC CHARITIES (Creole), 460-1419

To order citizenship forms by mail directly from the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, call 1-800-870-3676 (English and Spanish)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info boxes at end of text. Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              67 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 17, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

AMERICA CANNOT AFFORD TO LET IN SO MANY IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 165 words


The U.S. House of Representatives has demonstrated that it cannot craft an
immigration reform act that will be in the best interests of this nation, those
being: stimulating economic activity and development; employing people downsized
by corporations; countering the trend of hiring part-time workers; stopping the
export of jobs to other countries; meeting the need of job training; and
controlling the growth of health and social welfare programs.

Immigration policy should not be based on the desire to reunite families or the
desire of some businessmen for a glut of unskilled workers.

The Democratic Immigration Act of 1965 based selection on family relationships
or skills. From 1965 to 1995, 40 million people flooded the country. Immigration
policy should be revised from time to time, based on economic and social
realities. At this point, no more than 100,000 immigrants from all countries
should be allowed to enter this country each year.

Jack Somny

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              68 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 11, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

LEGAL LOOPHOLES CAN BE LIFELINE FOR YOUNG IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 936 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A year ago, Margarita Vicente was jobless and facing deportation for slipping
across the border without a visa.

Today, the 18-year-old has a green card, attends high school in suburban Lake
Worth and plans to spend the rest of her life in this country.

Vicente was spared a return trip to Guatemala by an increasingly controversial
legal tactic - called a petition for dependency - that is sometimes used by
immigration attorneys to get minors declared wards of the state because their
parents have "abandoned" them. That's a ticket for a green card.

The law was created to help social workers get children in this country out of
abusive or neglectful homes. In cases like Vicente's, however, the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service grants permanent residency when the
juvenile court makes a minor its ward.

Now, some juvenile court judges are casting a wary eye at the use of such
petitions to get around immigration laws that would otherwise dictate the
deportation of undocumented minors.

"I think there is some abuse," said Circuit Judge Ronald Alvarez.

The state agency responsible for child welfare, the Department of Health and
Rehabilitative Services, does not consider minors who leave home to live with
relatives in the United States to be abandoned, said Carmen Frick, HRS district
legal counsel in Miami.

"I don't think abandonment is that the parents happen to be in, say, Honduras,"
Frick said.

But in some cases, attorney Aileen Josephs argues, a minor under 18 who is not
supported by parents, or who is sent to the United States with relatives, should
be considered neglected and abandoned.

Keeping the process quiet

Josephs says she only files such motions when she is convinced the child would
be at risk if returned to the family. Using a juvenile court declaration of
dependency, Josephs has gotten special immigrant status for about 35 underage
clients during the past three years.

But, fearful of public and judicial reaction, Josephs wants to keep the
dependency-to-residency process quiet.

"It's a little secret that I don't want to jeopardize in any way," she said.

Child welfare workers in Palm Beach County usually seek court-ordered dependency
only if neglect, abandonment or abuse occurred at the local residence, not
overseas, said Becky Walker, an HRS programs operation administrator.

Rita Altman, another lawyer who has used the juvenile courts to help illegal
minors get green cards, said the procedure is valid.

Legal status makes her clients eligible for better jobs but does not entitle
them to significantly greater social benefits than they could receive as
undocumented immigrants, she said.

Illegal minors are entitled to emergency health care and public education. Those
with legal status can receive welfare, Medicaid or food stamps if they meet
income guidelines. Unlike undocumented immigrants, they are eligible for
admission to community colleges, according to the HRS.

Back-door immigration?

Alvarez is concerned that asking juvenile courts to declare undocumented
immigrants wards of the state is a back door to illegal immigration, Josephs
said. Alvarez has told her he is worried it could open the floodgates to legal
residency for underage minors who left their families behind and are now working
in South Florida agricultural fields, she said.

"There are hundreds of them," said Ruben Chavez, executive director of the
Farmworkers Coordinating Council in suburban Boynton Beach. "I would say that in
every van-load that comes in from Guatemala or Mexico, you could probably find a
couple of individuals that are minors."

Few underage farm workers know about the dependency petitions, and their labor
contractors are not about to tell them for fear of losing them, Chavez said.

Josephs said most of her clients are like Margarita Vicente - between 10 and 17
and from Guatemala. The cases are referred to her by Florida Rural Legal
Services, her former employer, or immigrant advocacy organizations, and she
handles them for free or for reduced fees, she said.

Working fields at age 6

Vicente, now 18, couldn't qualify for a temporary work permit a year ago because
she entered the country illegally and had no political asylum claim.

Facing deportation, Vicente had known only hardship and poverty in Guatemala.
There, she said, she began working in the fields planting vegetables when she
was 6 and finished only five years of school. Her father had gone to work in the
United States, she said, and her mother told her she could no longer afford to
keep her in school.

So, in February 1994, Vicente left Guatemala with an aunt, headed for the United
States. They crossed Mexico, slipped over the U.S. border and settled in South
Florida, Vicente said.

Vicente was unable to find her father, who was last reported living in Georgia.
She now lives with her three uncles in suburban Lake Worth and attends John I.
Leonard High School. A month ago, Vicente became a permanent legal resident of
the United States.

"I was very happy when my lawyer told me I had a green card," Vicente said. "Now
my goal is to finish high school and look for a career."

Vicente would have been deported without Josephs' successful use of the
dependency motion, said Jorge Vicente, one of her uncles.

Altman, who has filed six to eight dependency cases, said the process is
legitimate and humane. Many of her clients were Haitian orphans and had no
family to return to, she said.

"This gives them roots, certainty and much more legitimacy," Altman said. "I've
seen only happy outcomes."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W), SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, 1. (C) Margarita
Vicente (mug) 2. (B&W) Margarita Vicente lives in suburban Lake Worth with three
uncles, including Jorge Vicente.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              69 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 28, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL POSTPONED IN CONGRESS

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress won't make any progress on rewriting immigration law until after July
8, House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, said Thursday.

Almost two months have passed since the Senate approved a broad immigration
bill, and more than three months have lapsed since the House passed its version.
But House leaders have yet to appoint the members who will help mold the two
bills together, and Armey said the appointments won't happen until after
Congress returns from its weeklong July 4th holiday.

Armey continued to insist that the final bill will contain a controversial
provision allowing states to deny free education to children living illegally in
the United States. That bill will have to be approved again by the House and
Senate to be sent on to President Clinton.

Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., predicted Thursday that the
education provision will doom immigration-law reform by this Congress.

"We will not see an immigration bill if that's part of it," Daschle said at a
breakfast meeting. "I don't know if we've decided yet whether we're going to try
to stop it in the Senate or just allow the president to veto it. But one way or
another, through extended debate or a veto, we're going to kill that bill.

"We've got to deal with the problems of illegal immigration, and that's what
this bill would allow us to do," Daschle said. "But to say we're also going to
cut off children and make police agents of every teacher in this country; I
mean, can you imagine the extraordinary problems for a teacher in every
classroom where immigrants are found? What are you going to do? Are you going to
have an 'illegal detector' somehow in the class?"

Armey, indicating the political hay that Republicans would make of a Democratic
defeat of the immigration bill, said Daschle could "stand there and stop
immigration reform."

"It's a pretty easy proposition for Daschle since nobody's trying to get into
his state," Armey said, referring to Daschle's South Dakota home.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              70 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 4, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FILE LAWSUIT ALLEGING GROUP BILKED THEM FOR $300,000

BYLINE: By VAL ELLICOTT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Three Chinese immigrants were conned out of more than $300,000 by four men,
including a local businessman who claims to be a wealthy sheik, according to a
suit filed in Palm Beach County Circuit Court.

Anthony Lee, Susanna Law, and Jack Tung say Sheikh Abdus Shimveel

Quraeshi, who owns Escue Management Inc. in West Palm Beach, tricked them out of
most of the money-- $200,000-- with the help of West Palm Beach immigration
attorney Frank Ricci. Lee, Law and Tung say they were easy targets for fraud

because their command of English is weak.

But Ricci says he and Jeffrey Raynor, another attorney named in the

damages suit, are as much victims as the three Chinese plaintiffs.

"I have nothing to hide," Ricci said Tuesday. "We feel we're on very

solid ground here." He called the allegations "absolutely false, baseless

and outrageous" and said Quraeshi used him to defraud Lee,

Law and Tung. Quraeshi did not respond to repeated requests for comment.

Frank Shooster, the attorney representing Lee, Law and Tung, says Ricci is as
much to blame as Quraeshi.

"He knew my clients' command of the English language is terrible,"

Shooster said.

According to the suit's chronology, Lee and Law, who are married, planned last
year to open a restaurant in South Florida with Quraeshi.

The investment was supposed to qualify them for permanent resident status under
an immigration law that allows citizens from certain foreign countries

to qualify for residency by investing in-- or running-- a business in the

United States. Tung, Lee's cousin, also was seeking residency.

Over a period of months, Quraeshi talked all three into giving him

control over about $350,000 of their money, according to the suit. He was

supposed to use the money for immigration services, moving expenses and

investment purposes, the suit says.

Quraeshi also introduced Lee to Ricci, who suggested it would be faster to
pursue residency by investing in promissory notes acquired by the Resolution

Trust Corp., the agency created to take over and sell ailing savings and

loans, the suit says.

"This new RTC can allow you the opportunity of making an investment and

at the same time preserving your initial capital," Ricci wrote Lee on June

14, 1991.

Lee and Tung both agreed to the investment and authorized Quraeshi to

transfer $200,000 of their money to Ricci's trust account, the suit claims.

The investment ultimately was supposed to be made through Quraeshi's company. A
letter included with the suit indicates that Ricci acknowledged

receiving the money in September 1991. But six months later, Ricci wrote Lee

that he had never received it, and he denied signing the earlier letter.

Quraeshi had taken the money and invested it directly in Escue Management,

Ricci wrote Lee.

"Mr. Quraeshi assumes total responsibility" for the money, Ricci wrote

in that letter, also filed with the suit.

Ricci said Tuesday that he will obtain bank documents proving that the

$200,000 was never deposited in his trust account. Quraeshi had one of Ricci's
secretaries forge Ricci's signature on the September 1991 letter, he said.

"I wasn't even in town," Ricci said. "I was in California."

The RTC investment never transpired. Instead, Quraeshi persuaded Lee to

invest $25,000 in an Italian restaurant, called Platters, with him and Aldo

Conigliaro, who owns Design Selections Inc. in West Palm Beach and Palm Beach
Gardens and is also named as a defendant in the suit.

The suit claims Quraeshi and Conigliaro misled Lee about how much they had
invested in the venture, which failed. Conigliaro did not return phone calls.
Lee says Quraeshi promised in March to repay him $300,000-- the amount he
calculated Quraeshi owed him and his wife. Quraeshi modified the terms of

repayment a number of times, including one modification negotiated by Raynor,
but he never repaid Lee, according to the suit.

Ricci said he obtained a visa for Lee and Law while the restaurant was

open, but the visa automatically expired when the business closed. Nine days

before Lee, Law and Tung filed their suit, Ricci filed a small claims suit

against Lee and Law demanding $5,540 in fees.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 8, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS FLEE FROM FEAR TO FRUSTRATION

BYLINE: By MARY JANE FINE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1592 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Frank Ricci is an immigration lawyer used to the snags and glitches of

bureaucracy. When he talks about the dilemma of his client, Jean-Mario Pierre,
he voices the contempt familiarity breeds: "This is nuts, what's going on.

It's clearly discriminatory, completely unrealistic and not in tune with the

political climate."

The target of his ire is his long-time foe, the Immigration and

Naturalization Service. Although Ricci speaks on behalf of thousands of

Haitian refugees seeking political asylum, it is Pierre especially who

concerns him now.

"He's a man with good credentials," Ricci says, proffering a folder

containing his client's resume. Pierre is fluent in four languages: French,

English, Spanish and creole. He earned his medical degree from the University of
Liege, Belgium, the same institution from which he also holds degrees in

oceanography and community development. And there's a bachelor's degree in

biology from Lehman College of New York, just for good measure.

But credentials aside, Ricci says, Pierre also is a man with a "well-

founded fear" of persecution in his homeland, the applicable standard for

political asylum in the United States.

More than two years ago, after being forced into hiding by threats on his life,
the Haitian physician fled his home in Port-au-Prince and applied for

asylum in Miami. Now-- despite letters and phone calls to INS -- neither

attorney nor client has been able to learn the status of that application.

Ricci strongly believes that INS is stalling, hoping for a quick end to

the political upheaval in Haiti, which would justify denying Pierre's asylum

request-- along with the requests of thousands of other refugees.

"That's malarkey," says Erich Cauller, director of the Miami Asylum

Office of INS. "We don't stall on cases at all. We have a lot of pressure on

us" to complete cases expediently.

In frustration, however, Ricci filed a Freedom of Information request late last
month, hoping to force the INS to respond. He is not optimistic, bluntly naming
the non-answers he believes to be most likely: Either the file is lost or the
file is empty.

"This is what I call the black hole in INS," says Ricci, who is handling

the matter without a fee. "That's the standard response when they don't want

to do anything."

The problem, Cauller says, is that since April 1991 INS has given priority
status to recent refugees-- a "last in, first out" system applied to all

nationalities. "We simply don't have the personnel to keep up" with the

tremendous influx of new refugees added to existing cases.

INS doesn't expect additional interviewers to be hired until fiscal year

1994, he said, adding that "the entire backlog" of applicants would be

reinterviewed at that time.

The reason Ricci received no answer to his queries, Cauller said, is that "we
spread the word (of the priority system) through the American

Immigration Lawyers Association."

A lack of clerical personnel, he said, might explain why answers were not sent
to individuals who did not hear about the change.

Historically, refugee advocates say, individual merit has been overlooked in
asylum cases from certain countries, Haiti among them. Rather, the INS has made
blanket determinations, taking guidance from the U.S. State Department's
advisory opinions, issued on a country-by-country basis.

Most Haitians seeking asylum in South Florida fled the violent chaos

surrounding the September 1991 ouster of popularly elected President Jean-

Bertrand Aristide.

Of 38,000 who were intercepted at sea by the U.S. Coast Guard, 27,000 were
quickly repatriated. The remaining 11,000 received parole status and temporary
work permits while authorities investigate their claims of persecution. In the
past, however, INS has denied 98 percent of asylum requests by Haitian

refugees.

All of which leaves Jean-Mario Pierre-- who sits patiently, hands folded, across
the conference table in Ricci's office-- squarely in limbo along with

his two daughters, Dhaina, 19, and Valerie, 18.

The three had returned to Haiti from Belgium in 1987, not long after the

forced departure of dictator Baby Doc Duvalier. But by October 1990, when

Pierre fled to Miami, new political turbulence threatened him and his

daughters.

In order to protect family and friends in Haiti, Pierre declines to be

specific about the allegiances that made him a target of violence, but he

tells a harrowing tale, recalling the night that a soldier held an Uzi to his
head while his father watched in helpless terror.

Later, the Pierres hid in the home of friends, daring to venture out only at
night or during periods of relative calm.

In the sparsely furnished Lake Worth apartment they share with their

father, Dhaina and Valerie recall months of confinement in their room, often

unable to attend school or see friends.

Pierre was prepared to be lonely in the United States, he says. He

expected a difficult adjustment to a new culture. He anticipated struggling,

as a divorced father, to support his daughters while studying for the U.S.

medical board exam. He did not foresee waiting endlessly for his situation to be
resolved.

"You feel out of your place, you feel discouraged and also, you feel that you
are misunderstood," says Pierre. "That's not the kind of trouble I was

prepared for."

Here, frustrated by his professional limitations-- he has overseen a

roomful of monitors at several area hospitals, reporting any abnormalities to
nurses-- Pierre longs to work as a doctor again. The long days he has put in

-- sometimes from 12 to 16 hours-- permitted little time to study for his

medical boards.

"All the gray matter I have assembled all these years-- it's a big

waste," he laments.

Even more painful, he says, is seeing his daughters stuck in a similar

quagmire. After spending a month at Catholic University in Washington, D.C.--
where both hoped to pursue premed studies-- they learned that their uncertain
immigrant status makes them ineligible for much-needed financial aid. Crushed,
they returned to Florida and enrolled at Palm Beach Community College, where

they say they feel less accepted than in Washington's international

community.

The overriding irony, Pierre says, is that while living in Belgium from

1979 to 1987, he had a Belgian passport and a U.S. visa that would have

permitted him to remain indefintely in the United States. He chose instead to
return to Haiti, hoping to initiate a marine agricultural project that would

have combined science and community development.

"These people have an ocean around them," he says of his countrymen,

suddenly animated. "They can use it. They can end malnutrition, become self-

sufficient."

His enthusiasm for his work seems boundless, but his demeanor turns somber at
the mention of his uncertain future. He listens attentively as his attorney
explains that asylum hearings-- held in modified courtroom settings with

attorneys and witnesses-- place the burden of proof on the refugee. And proof
can be problematical.

"When somebody's putting a gun to your head, you don't take a picture of

it," Ricci says. "When somebody says, `I'm gonna kill you,' you don't say:

' Can I have that in writing so I can give proof in my (immigration)

hearing?' "

Ricci's conclusion is blunt and brutal: "I think, because the Haitians

are black and not English-speaking, they're considered Third World nationals

and second-class citizens. That's what I think."

PINNED BY AN UZI

Two years after applying for political asylum in the United States, Haitian

physician Jean-Mario Pierre put his thoughts in writing. In a six-page essay

he calls Statue of Liberty, Have Mercy Upon Us, he describes an incident in

which a man with an Uzi machine gun invaded his Haiti home:

*

My memories are still green when Uzi stormed my residence and deprived me

of my savings (in American currency), my car and my cattle. I still feel

embarrassed for not having the courage to die as a brave man. I had to bargain
my life as my father watched petrified every movement of my executioner.

Nailed in an equilibrist position between sob and collapse, scared to death,

he succeeded in keeping the atmosphere still. He took a turbulent deep breath,
later, once we had lodged in a safe cache.

The suspense was not over, yet. Once, riding a cab after a very tense day at
work, a voice I had already heard shook me from my zombie state: "Ce pa ti doc
lan?" (Doctor?) As if a lightning had shone across, I discovered behind

the dark sunglasses of the cab driver the intriguing expression of the man who
had me pinned to his Uzi. Never mind how I burst through that moving coffin

and up on my feet. It belonged already to the instant blackout that froze my

memory. Like Dustin Hoffman in the thrilling movie The Marathon Man, I found

myself, seconds later, running after my life as if it were loose.

Thereafter, life kept on with a staggering and painful gait bumping

against the corridor of atrocities and surprises. On an intense sunny day,

while waiting for an empty seat in a cab as long as an hour, the nerves on

fire, the scalp reaching the melting point, my Toyota jeep, now an absolute

moving wreckage, stuffed with gunmen, roared past, leaving me in a swirl of

smothering decomposed dust.

Verily, Verily, I am telling you, you do not have a clue of the ordeals

the Haitian people is going through, there and here. As for me, and in my

capacity of a skilled professional, willing to contribute my science to the

welfare of this society, I have had enough of being lost in the crowd. I wish to
find my way to the red carpet. I appeal to the INS and to the authorities

of this country to "play by the rules" and give a fair consideration to my

asylum claim.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/C/PIERRE, JEAN-MARIO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 28, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STUDENTS TO HELP HAITIANS;
LAW SCHOOL VOLUNTEERS WILL JOIN ASYLUM EFFORT

BYLINE: By VAL ELLICOTT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A small army of law students from around the country will spend Christmas

vacation helping expatriated Haitians in Palm Beach County and South Florida

obtain immigration status as political refugees.

The volunteer effort, which will draw about 120 students from 20 law

schools, will sharply accelerate the process of qualifying thousands of

Haitians for political asylum.

"It's incredibly frustrating at times, but in general everyone

understands that the political oppression these people were fleeing is very

real," said Mary Beth Moylan, a law student at Case Western Reserve

University in Cleveland. "It's a wake-up call to see that this kind of stuff

goes on in the world and the United States is not always taking a leadership

role in seeing an end to it."

Without help from the law school students, the Haitians would have to plod
through the daunting application process themselves or seek help from the

small number of legal aid agencies in South Florida with lawyers on staff.

"I can barely complete a tax form," Mike Ryan, who organized an earlier

phase of the project, said last week. "Imagine completing a form for

political asylum if you can't speak the language."

Ryan, a law clerk for U.S. District Judge Kenneth Ryskamp in West Palm

Beach, said the refugees stand a much better chance of qualifying for

political asylum if they have legal assistance during the application process.
Interviewing the refugees and hearing their reports of persecution in

Haiti can be an emotionally wrenching experience, according to the law

students.

"There were grown people crying from a day that was almost too difficult

to imagine," Ryan said of one round of interviews over the summer. "Nothing

could really prepare the students for these stories."

The students, with support from the National Lawyers Guild, launched their
relief effort last spring. About 40 students joined forces with the Haitian

Refugee Center in Miami to help Haitians qualify for political asylum. A

second wave of about 200 students visited Miami during the summer.

This time, most of the students will be based in West Palm Beach because

so many of the 8,000 to 10,000 refugees in South Florida settled in Palm Beach
County.

The students, aided by staff with the Haitian Resettlement Program at

Catholic Charities in West Palm Beach, will live and work at the Cardinal

Newman Youth Center.

"This is definitely a life-saving effort," said Dexter Orange, who runs

the Haitian Resettlement Program. "It you do not make it through this process
you will be deported, and we have known that some (Haitians) have been killed
once they arrived back on their shores."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 9, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PEACE PRIZE VINDICATES STRUGGLE FOR POLITICAL ASYLUM

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Guatemalan Indians in south Florida have for years felt that U.S.

authorities ignored the tragedy that forced them to flee mountain villages

that became killing fields during the army's brutal scorched-earth campaign.

For them, the Nobel Peace Prize that Rigoberta Menchu will accept Thursday is a
long-awaited vindication for all Guatemalan Indians involved in the long and
frustrating struggle to win political asylum in the United States.

"The world has finally honored our cause," said Geronimo Campo Seco, 53,

a Kanjobal Indian who fled northwestern Huehuetenango province 12 years ago

and is a leading spokesman for the estimated 25,000 Guatemalan Mayans in South
Florida.

"We hope that by honoring Rigoberta Menchu they will honor our right to

asylum, because in Guatemala the Indian holocaust continues," he said.

Less than 2 percent of the asylum applications of Guatemalans fleeing

right-wing violence have been approved by the Immigration and Naturalization

Service, advocacy groups say, while refugees from Communist Cuba are routinely
granted asylum and given residency and work papers within a short period.

INS spokesmen maintain the asylum process is fair. But last year a federal court
ruled the INS had discriminated against asylum applicants from El

Salvador and Guatemala and ordered INS officials to reconsider thousands of

cases.

Immigration officials continue to disregard asylum applications from

Guatemalan Indians, according to Campo Seco, a founder of the advocacy group

CORN Maya in Indiantown, and a collaborator at the Guatemalan Center in Lake

Worth. He is employed as a statewide legal assistant with the Farm Worker's

Unit of the Florida Rural Legal Services' office in Belle Glade.

But for now, Guatemalan Indians in the United States are celebrating the

world-class honor to one of their own.

"Rigoberta is symbolic of the heroic people who survived the martyrdom of more
than 60,000 Mayans during the last decade," said a joint communique

signed by several of their groups. "The struggle for justice and peace in the
face of Draconian military operations in Guatemala continues."

The diminutive Menchu has become a folk hero in Latin America. The army

tortured and killed most of her family in a counterinsurgency campaign against
leftist rebels. But she survived to tell the world the story of her people,

though she did not learn to read and write-- or even speak Spanish-- until she
was in her 20s.

She was elevated to a nearly biblical status at a recent South Florida

Mass attended by dozens of Guatemalan Indian exiles.

"Through the long twilight of repression, war and exile, Rigoberta Menchu never
lost the hope that God would hear the `cry of the poor'-- a cry for

justice, peace and reconciliation in her native Guatemala," said the Rev. Dan
Kane in a homily at St. Ignatius Loyola Cathedral in Palm Beach Gardens.

"From the refugee (communities) . . . to the indigenous highlands of

Guatemala, that cry for justice was answered.

"God raised up Rigoberta Menchu to deliver a prophetic message to the

world community," he said. "Like the women of scripture, she symbolizes

courage and strength in the face of danger and bloodshed inflicted for decades
against her people."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 28, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT WHO SUED FOR FRAUD GETS DEATH THREAT

BYLINE: By VAL ELLICOTT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Police are investigating a death threat sent to a Chinese immigrant who has
accused a wealthy sheik and an immigration attorney of conning him and two

other immigrants out of more than $300,000.

The death threat was sent to Anthony Lee, one of three Chinese restaurant owners
who filed a civil suit in October against Sheik Abdus Shimveel

Quraeshi, West Palm Beach immigration attorney Frank Ricci and two other men.
Police confirmed that the threat contained a phrase clipped from a

magazine or newspaper that read, ". . . Death Had a Name." Next to that was

pasted another clipping: the name "Lee."

"I am really concerned about Mr. Lee," West Palm Beach Detective Mike

Roggin said Thursday. "I would say he is very much in danger."

Police in Riviera Beach, where the threat was mailed, are analyzing the

handwriting on the envelope, according to Riviera Beach Detective Seretha

Colbert.

Lee received the threat about two months after he, his wife, Susanna Law, and
his cousin, Jack Tung, filed suit against Quraeshi, Ricci, attorney

Jeffrey Raynor and design store owner Aldo Conigliaro.

"We are frightened, we are scared," Law said. She, Lee and Tung speak

limited English. The language barrier made them easy targets for fraud, they

say in their suit.

The suit claims that Quraeshi, with Ricci's help, bilked the three Chinese
immigrants out of about $350,000 after persuading them to relocate from Sweden
to South Florida to open a restaurant with him. Conigliaro and Raynor played

minor roles in the fraud, according to the suit.

The case has expanded rapidly and now includes massive documentation and

links to several other countries, Roggin said. He has contacted the West Palm
Beach office of the FBI for assistance.

"There's so much stuff to unravel," Roggin said. "It's an expensive

investigation and something our department won't have the funds to go after.

I'm working 40 other cases right now and I could work this one alone for

months."

Since the civil suit was filed on Oct. 15, lawyers on both sides of the

case have traded angry accusations.

Ricci and Conigliaro denied they acted improperly in their dealings with

Lee, Law and Tung. Ricci, however, on Wednesday filed a libel suit against Lee
and his attorney, Frank Shooster, claiming they have made public statements

damaging his character.

"I was hired to get him a visa and that's what I did," Ricci said. He

said Lee sued him only because he had already sued Lee in small claims court

for failing to pay him for obtaining the visa.

"That's why I was named in the suit, because I sued him first," Ricci

said.

Ricci, represented by West Palm Beach attorney Michael Knecht, has said

that Quraeshi, who owns Escue Management Inc. in West Palm Beach, used him to
bilk Lee, Law and Tung.

Quraeshi has not returned repeated calls seeking comment. Raynor referred calls
to his attorney, John Romano.

"I think it is outrageous and absolutely outlandish that they have filed

a suit that includes Jeff Raynor," Romano said. "What I believe they have

done is taken the shotgun approach to a lawsuit-- anyone who may have any

involvement, they just sue-- and that is a wrong and immoral thing to do."

An irate Conigliaro said news stories about the civil suit have hurt his

business, Design Selections Inc. He has threatened to file a slander suit

against Shooster, unless Shooster drops him from the suit and apologizes.

"I have nothing to do with this case," Conigliaro said. "I didn't even

know these people (Lee, Law and Tung) when these things allegedly took

place."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 31, 1992 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

CUBAN DEFECTORS RELEASED TO LOVED ONES

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration authorities late Wednesday released a group of Cubans who had

made a daring flight for freedom to Miami Tuesday.

Authorities opened the gates of the Krome Detention Center at 10 p.m.,

releasing the Cubans into the waiting arms of their relatives or exile

community groups who had anxiously stood watch outside the gate.

The Cubans were freed after being questioned for a second day on their

claims for asylum and an investigation on whether any U.S. laws were violated in
the dramatic plane escape from Cuba.

As they embraced and hugged relatives, one of the escapees, Luis Manuel,

explained that the group plotted their escape by using a code pretending they
were planning a party, not a mass exit.

Aero-Caribbean pilot Carlos Cancio Porcel and 48 passengers requested

political asylum in the United States. Five other people opted to return to

Cuba.

"There is a much larger issue here, an extremely touchy and critical

issue," said one expert, Billie Vincent, a former head of security for the

Federal Aviation Administration. "The real problem we face is what this

portends for the future. We don't want to see these people go back, but by

sanctioning the illegal diversion of a flight, we encourage this to happen

again."

The Cuban government condemned the airliner's diversion as a "terrorist

act" of "aerial piracy;" it also accused Washington of complicity in

violations of international accords by automatically granting political asylum
to Cuban refugees arriving in Florida.

The Cuban airliner left Miami International Airport shortly before 9 p.m.
Wednesday along with a Cuban escort plane carrying the five Cubans who wanted to
return, said Marc Henderson, spokesman for the Dade County Aviation

Department. The Cubans who sought to return included the co-pilot, a security
officer and a stewardess.

While the return of the aircraft was accomplished with relative ease, what to do
with the passengers was more troubling to U.S. officials.

Some federal officials worried about the consequences of releasing Cancio and
his passengers unilaterally. They said they were concerned how Cubans

still in Cuba might interpret Tuesday's defection.

"We want to be fair to these people who have come over, but on the other

hand, we don't want to encourage people to take desperate measures, whether on
rafts or planes," a State Department official said, speaking on condition of

anonymity. "We urge people who want to go to the United States to go to our

interests section in Havana."

The flight, and that of former Cuban air force pilot Orestes Lorenzo, who

flew a small plane back to Cuba on Dec. 19 to whisk his family off a beachside
road, show a weakness in Cuba's defenses, experts said.

While that was a single low-flying plane, this flight carried 53 people on a
regularly scheduled domestic airliner.

Armando Valladares, a Cuban exile who served as U.S. representative to the
United Nations human rights committee, says the Lorenzo and Aero Caribbean

flights are signs of the future. "They show the weakness in Castro's defense

system and raise the possibility of more escapes," he said.

The dramatic flights came in a year that already has seen a growing

number of boaters and rafters reaching Florida's shores. Coast Guard patrols

have picked up 2,549 Cubans so far this year, up from only 59 in 1988, said

spokeswoman Toni Long.

Lawyers and security experts specializing in aviation issues said

Wednesday that the Aero Caribbean defection raised complicated legal issues

and that there was little experience to draw on for answers.

At least three multilateral agreements, drawn up between 1963 and 1971,

might be relevant to the Aero-Caribbean flight, said Tracy Martineau, a

spokeswoman for the International Civil Aviation Organization in Montreal. One
such convention governs "offenses and certain acts committed on board

aircraft," she said, and a second has to do with "the suppression of

unlawful seizures of aircraft." A third deals with the "suppression of

unlawful acts against the safety of civil aviation."

The United States has signed each of those agreements, but Cuba is not a

party to any of them. Nevertheless, "that does not affect our obligations"

to act in accordance with the conventions, a State Department official said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 3, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ISSUE ISN'T IMMIGRATION, IT'S MOTHERHOOD'S IMAGE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1174 words


Suzanne Fields' assertion that our immigration laws need to be changed (to

protect upper-class women like Zoe Baird, who couldn't find a nanny despite

making $500,000 a year) got my blood boiling.

I tell my 41/2-year-old son he can't change the rules in the middle of the

game just because he is losing.

And I challenge Ms. Fields to use her broad circulation to change the way
America thinks about motherhood. She admitted that there is little respect for
that vocation. Were being a mother a more honorable career, Ms. Baird would

need only look in her neighborhood for a nanny, not neighboring countries.

Am I too optimistic to think that she might even have chosen to stay home
herself?

Anna K. Murphy

Lake Worth

WRIGHT GOT HIGH COURT'S BIAS ALL WRONG

I must emphatically complain about Don Wright's political cartoon showing a
robed member of the Supreme Court tending a mass-production type conveyor

belt carrying electric-chair-executed corpses and a crucified Christ.

If Mr. Wright's intent is to criticize the actions of the court because of too
many people being executed, let me ask: Has he been visiting his aunt in

Mars for the past four decades? Are we talking about the same Supreme Court?

In the 1960s, Rosalie Gordon published a book called Nine Men against

America, which is crammed with cases in which the Supreme Court favored

criminals in their decisions. If she were to write a sequel about the past 30
years, it would be the size of an encyclopedia.

The cartoonist should address abortion decisions rather than criminal

executions if he so dislikes death.

Manuel Gutierrez

Boynton Beach

SANCTITY OF LIFE IS ANTI-ABORTION `HYMN'

George McEvoy, in his column "You sing your hymn; I'll sing mine," just

doesn't get it. The question of abortion's legality hinges not on the right of
women to control their bodies but on whether an unborn child is a human life. I
believe the answer is yes. Scientific evidence shows the amazing

capabilities of the unborn child to react to his environment. . Can we do

anything less than insist that this life be protected by law?

In the past century, abolitionists properly concluded that the right of

African-Americans to life in freedom was more sacred and compelling than

plantation owners' rights to maintain their chosen lifestyle. They insisted

the owners learn to sing that hymn.

We who believe in the sanctity of human life cannot rest until our hymn is
written into our nation's laws.

Ron Illsley

Boynton Beach

ALL TAX MONEY SHOULD BE SO WELL SPENT

Subsidized day care has become a timely issue. Opponents feel penalized

for having to support someone else's children. Proponents claim it will save

money by keeping the next generation off welfare while providing positive role
models for today's youth.

Publicly financed day care serves the same purpose as publicly financed

schools-- to care for and educate the next generation of Americans so they may
take their place in society. All of our tax dollars should be so well spent.

America's most precious commodity is our children. They represent the future. To
the narrow-minded letter writer who lacks vision of this great

country, I gladly offer to reimburse the 2 cents of her tax dollar that pays

for subsidized day care.

Robert J. Russo

Hobe Sound

LACK OF INVENTION IN THE GOP YEARS

Your recent article "Invented in Japan" tells the whole story of the

catastrophic failure of the Reagan-Bush presidencies. During the Carter years,
we patented five times more inventions than the Japanese. Ten years later,

1991, we were issued 3,953 patents, while the Japanese were given 4,951! What an
enormous change in technology during the regimes of the "business"

presidencies of Ronald Reagan and George Bush! Were Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush

working for the Japanese?

Irving Shectman

West Palm Beach

A MOVE WITH LITTLE COMIC RELIEF

Allow me to add my observations to the comic strip controversy. I find Non
Sequitur to be a Far Side wannabe. (I can take or leave Sylvia.)

What I do find amusing, though, is that Curtis, your only comic of color

(African-American comic strip) has been relegated to the black-and-white

page. How ironic.

Linda Matute

West Palm Beach

ED MCMAHON'S RIP-OFF DESERVES SHOTS

I'm glad that Frank Cerabino gave the shiv to smiling Ed McMahon of "You

have just won $10 million" Publishers Clearing House rip-off fame.

As one who has been a sucker for "Smiling Ed," thanks a lot, Frank. Wish

there were more like you and Mike Royko.

Whitney Cushing

Palm Beach

PUBLISH FURNITURE BIDS IN NEWSPAPER

I can appreciate Barry Krischer's concern about having productive

employees, regarding the need to purchase new office furniture. The estimated
cost for Mr. Krischer's and Dorothy Wilken's furniture is $730,000.

In light of this cost and the already enormous tax burden on Palm Beach

County residents, it is in the County Commission's interest, as well as Mr.

Krischer's and Ms. Wilken's, to set an appropriate "competitive" environment

in the purchase of this furniture. Each bid should be published in the

newspaper so the public will be aware how we will be affected.

Joy Diamond

West Palm Beach

JUDGE GUILTY OF INEXCUSABLE DECISIONS

In December 1990, Judge Cohen let a man with a history of violent crimes out on
a 24-hour pass before serving a nine-year sentence for attempted

murder. Less than seven hours after leaving the stockade, the convict shot and
killed another man.

Now Judge Cohen makes the headlines again, returning a child to parents

with a history of violence, abuse and neglect. The child was killed.

The judge claims he never knows what is going to happen. If it looks like a
criminal, acts like a criminal, has a history of criminal acts, it is a

criminal. How many more people have been victims of Judge Cohen's inexcusable
decision-making?

P. Sheltz

North Palm Beach

UNITARIANS URGE SINGLE-PAYER SYSTEM

The Social Concerns Committee of the First Unitarian Church of Palm Beach County
endorses the single-payer system for a reformed national health care

plan for the United States. Our multiple profit-making insurance companies add
as much as $100 billion annually to our health care costs. We must eliminate

this waste.

The single-payer system is the most efficient and the fairest way to pay

for our health care.

Canada and other industrialized countries have amply demonstrated the

advantages of the single-payer system. We call on the Clinton administration

to adopt this system.

Marion Lundgren, member, Social Concerns Committee

First Unitarian Church of Palm Beach County

FOREIGN STUDENT STATISTIC WAS WRONG

The Palm Beach Post recently stated that 73 percent of the full-time

graduate students attending Florida Atlantic University are foreigners. This

is inaccurate. University-wide, only 35 percent of FAU's full-time graduate

students are foreign.

When both full-time and part-time graduate students are taken into

account, the percentage of foreigners drops to 15 percent. The 73 percent

figure applies only to the number of graduate students in the university's

College of Engineering.

Lynn K. Laurenti, assistant vice president

for university relations

Florida Atlantic University

Boca Raton\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          February 10, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A PREMATURE RUSH TO JUDGMENT

BYLINE: George McEvoy

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 558 words


Judge Kimba Wood got a bum rap in her bid to become U.S. attorney general,

and she can blame some of the windbags of radio and television for her hard

luck.

Unlike President Clinton's first nominee for the post-- Zoe Baird-- Judge Wood
did nothing wrong, broke no laws, bent no ethical rules.

Both women admitted to hiring undocumented immigrants to care for their

children, but the difference is this:

Zoe Baird paid no Social Security taxes on the couple she hired and did

not notify immigration authorities about their illegal status.

Judge Wood, on the other hand, notified the Immigration and Naturalization
Service that the baby sitter she hired had an expired visa, and she also made
sure all the necessary taxes were paid.

So how come she had to step down as the nominee, the same way Zoe Baird

did?

The reason, apparently, is that the Clinton White House feared the wrath

of radio and TV talk-show hosts, who had whipped their listeners into a frenzy
over the Zoe Baird case and were expected to do the same to Judge Wood,

regardless of the facts. Getting your listeners all foamy-mouthed is good for
ratings.

In particular, the Clinton people are said to have been worried about Rush
Limbaugh, a far-right-wing talk-show host who is living testament to the

theory that gross obesity impairs the mental functions.

Mr. Limbaugh's millions of listeners all seem to live in places with names such
as Snake Oil Springs and Dyspeptic Corners, and are known by such

monikers as Judd and Billy Bob.

On any broadcast day, it's a six, five, and even bet that half of his

callers are married to their sisters.

Mr. Limbaugh regales them with just the kind of trash they like to hear.

For instance, he proclaims often that he is not a racist, yet the only

person of color I've ever heard him say anything nice about is Supreme Court

Justice Clarence Thomas.

That's because Mr. Limbaugh dislikes feminists even more than African-

Americans. To him, any woman who has the temerity to speak out about

injustice toward her sex is a "feminazi."

Don't get me wrong. I enjoy radio talk shows and have appeared on several. Most
of the hosts I've encountered were intelligent and fair-minded, and I

think such programs give people a needed opportunity to voice their opinions

and let off a little steam.

But there are those, such as Mr. Limbaugh, who are nothing but electronic
demagogues. He and others like him have assumed extraordinary power in this

country, able to work their listeners into a fury over any issue.

This may be participatory democracy, as some claim, but I think it's

nothing but mob rule via the airwaves.

Like Voltaire, I would fight to the death to defend the right of the

Limbaughs to broadcast their drivel.

I just wish our leaders in Washington did not ascribe more importance to

them than they deserve.

And while we're on the subject, have you heard of any male nominee being

asked even one question about what provisions he has made for the care of his
children?

Anyway, we must have an attorney general, so I humbly offer this solution: The
president should call a bunch of lawyers, men and women, into the Oval

Office around midnight, and ask them that old bumper-sticker question-- Do You
Know Where Your Children Are Tonight?

If any one of them answers, "Why no, I haven't the foggiest idea,"

that's the next nominee.

George McEvoy is a columnist for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          February 17, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COMMISSION: CANE CUTTERS MERIT CHANCE AT RESIDENCY

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 726 words


More than 8,000 West Indian sugar cane workers who were denied permanent

U.S. residency should be allowed to pursue immigration applications, a federal
panel concluded in a report to be released today.

The Commission on Agricultural Workers, created in 1986 to study the

effect of immigration reform on farmworkers, is recommending that Congress

amend the Immigration Reform and Control Act to specifically include sugar

cane cutters who were excluded from the pool of seasonal workers who became

eligible for residency under the law.

A provision of that law, called the Special Agricultural Worker, or SAW

program, offered residency to workers who could prove they harvested

perishable crops for 90 days during the year ended May 1, 1986.

But sugar cane workers were denied eligibility because the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, which included cut flowers and Christmas trees in its

definition of perishable commodities, refused to include sugar cane. When the
courts questioned the ruling, the USDA amended it, adding to the definition

that vegetables are eaten "chiefly as the principal part of a meal, rather

than as dessert."

"This definition was written with the apparent intent of excluding sugar

cane workers from the SAW program," the commission wrote. "Clearly, all

individuals who performed the type of field work described in the production

of fruits and vegetables of every kind were meant to be eligible."

Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., an original author of the SAW program, is

expected to introduce legislation as early as this week that would make the

8,000 workers eligible for SAW status.

A staff worker in his office who asked to remain anonymous confirmed that Berman
is putting the finishing touches on a bill he plans to introduce.

Farmworker advocates, who have long insisted that the USDA bowed to

pressure from the sugar industry when it excluded cane from its list of

perishable crops, lauded the commission's recommendation.

"This is correcting a huge injustice," said Rob Williams, an attorney

with Florida Rural Legal Services. "Now at least these people who worked a

long time contributing to the health of the sugar industry have a chance to be
legal residents of the U.S."

During the late 1980s, executives at Clewiston-based United States Sugar

Corp. and the sugar companies owned by the Fanjul family of Palm Beach

actively opposed SAW status for its foreign cane workers, fearing they would

lose most of their work force if 8,000 cane cutters were permitted to work

elsewhere.

But U.S. Sugar, which estimates that 300 of its current workers would be

eligible for U.S. residency if the law is amended, will no longer oppose

granting them SAW status, said Bob Buker, the company's senior vice president. A
spokesman for the Fanjul companies did not return calls.

The status of sugar cane workers is only a small part of the commission

report, most of which addresses the impact immigration reform and the SAW

program have had on farm labor.

More than 1 million farmworkers received permanent resident status through the
SAW program, but the promise of improved conditions for them has not been
realized, the report said.

Farmworkers' real wages, adjusted for inflation, have steadily declined,

for example, with nominal wage increases largely attributable to the rise in

the federally mandated minimum wage, the report said.

The commission also concluded that immigration reform failed to curb

illegal immigration and the employment of unauthorized workers in agriculture --
a failure it blamed on ineffective enforcement of employer sanctions and

inadequate border controls.

Although farmworker advocates commended the commission's detailed

description of the abysmal conditions many farmworkers face, they said it

stopped short of making policy recommendations that would have meaningful

impact.

For example, the commission failed to recommend that growers be held

liable for violations committed by farm labor contractors -- even though it

determined that many abuses occur at the hands of those contractors, said Mike
Hancock, executive director of the Washington-based Farmworker Justice Fund.

"This is perhaps not so surprising, since most of the commission was made up of
agricultural employers or their representatives," Hancock said. "But

farmworkers were promised better conditions when immigration reform was passed
and it is now time to make good on that promise."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 18, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLERIC ORDERED DEPORTED; 2 MEN INDICTED IN BLAST

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


An extremist Muslim cleric who preaches at the same mosque where two

suspects in the World Trade Center bombing worship was ordered deported from

the United States on Wednesday.

The action came as a federal grand jury in Manhattan returned indictments
against the two suspects in custody and charged in the blast: Mohammed Salameh
and Nidal Ayyad, both 25.

The Feb. 26 blast, which shut down the World Trade Center for nearly three
weeks, killed six people, injured more than 1,000 and did tens of millions of
dollars in damage to the city economy. One of the buildings will reopen today
when Gov. Mario Cuomo returns to his 57th floor offices. The other one could

by the end of next week, officials of the Port Authority of New York and New

Jersey say.

The deportation order against Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman was unrelated to the
blast.

Abdel-Rahman, 54, had come before U.S. Immigration Judge Daniel Meisner on Jan.
20 for a closed hearing requested by the Immigration and Naturalization

Service to remove the sheik from the country.

The immigration service said Abdel-Rahman did not disclose in 1991 that he is a
polygamist and that he was convicted of falsifying a check in Egypt in

1987.

James Pomeroy, director of the INS' office in Newark, said Abdel-Rahman

would have 10 days to appeal Meisner's decision. The appeal would be made to

the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Abdel-Rahman's attorney, Barbara Nelson, said her client would fight the

order.

The indictment returned Wednesday said that Salameh and Ayyad

"unlawfully, willfully, knowingly and maliciously" damaged the world's

second-tallest buildings "by use of an explosive device."

Authorities allege Salameh, of Jersey City, N.J., rented the van used to

transport the explosive, while Ayyad, of Maplewood, N.J., was capable of

building a bomb. Ayyad is a chemical engineer.

The suspects face life without parole if convicted.

Published reports Wednesday indicated three suspects may have fled the

country within 48 hours of Salameh's arrest.

A third man, Ibrahim Elgabrowny, 42, also was indicted Wednesday on

charges including obstruction of justice and fraud.

All three suspects remain jailed without bail. Elgabrowny faces up to 17

years in jail if convicted on all five counts.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 20, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CIVIL CASE AGAINST LAWYER, THREE OTHERS IS DROPPED

BYLINE: By VAL ELLICOTT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Three Chinese immigrants have dropped their legal claims that a local

immigration lawyer, a wealthy Pakistani real estate investor and two other men
bilked them out of about $350,000.

The civil suit claimed Sheik Abdus Shimveel Quraeshi, who owns Escue

Management at Phillips Point, conned the three immigrants-- Anthony Lee,

Susanna Law, and Jack Tung-- after persuading them to relocate from Sweden to
South Florida to open a restaurant with him.

Immigration attorney Frank Ricci assisted in the rip-off and two other

men, design store owner Aldo Conigliaro and attorney Jeffrey Raynor, played

minor roles, the suit claimed.

The four defendants insisted they had done nothing wrong, saying the

Chinese immigrants were reacting unreasonably to a failed business deal.

In a letter to Quraeshi on Feb. 11, Frank Shooster, the attorney

representing Lee, Law and Tung, credited Quraeshi with settling his debt to

the Chinese immigrants "in an honorable fashion." Exact terms of the

settlements were not disclosed.

"Mr. Quraeshi can sincerely state to his credit that he always

acknowledged the existence of the full debt claimed by Lee, Law and Tung,"

Shooster wrote. "Mr. Quraeshi always conducted himself as a complete

gentleman."

Shooster indicated in the letter that the legal dispute arose from a

misunderstanding that resulted largely because his clients and Quraeshi

conducted business dealings on a handshake "without written confirmation."

After Lee, Law and Tung dropped their legal claims, Ricci dropped a

defamation suit he had filed against Shooster and Lee, his attorney, Michael

Knecht, said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 29, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SENATE CONSIDERS TOUGHENING IMMIGRANT ASYLUM PROCESS

BYLINE: By MARK W. WRIGHT, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration and law enforcement officials said Friday the system for

screening immigrants' requests for asylum is seriously overburdened and must

be streamlined.

"Our immigration laws and procedures are being overwhelmed by applicants

for asylum, many of whom are making fraudulent claims and some of whom are

terrorists," Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., told the Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration.

Chris Sale, acting commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization

Service, said, "Foreign nationals with fraudulent travel documents, or even

no travel documents, arrive each day at U.S. airports in numbers that exceed

the detention capacity of the INS."

Many of these new arrivals "are not genuine asylum seekers but

nevertheless file claims for asylum," Sale said.

She said current law entitles these people to a lengthy review of their

claim that may "often outlast the period for which the INS can afford to

provide detention space."

As a result, Sale said, many are released, "and often the most

undeserving claimants do not return to complete the process."

Sale backed a Senate bill that would:

* Make the use of forged, altered or stolen documents grounds for

exclusion.

* Allow officers to hold hearings within 10 days when persons presenting

such documents claim asylum, and to order their exclusion if the claim is

frivolous.

* Limit judicial review of the asylum process, as long as there are

administrative safeguards.

Sale said that to deal with large-scale smuggling of aliens, similar

procedures should be used `in the case of aliens encountered . . . in

international waters en route to the United States."

Kennedy also said that the threat of terrorism "requires closer

coordination between those who gather intelligence information on terrorists

and immigration officers who need the information to exclude these

terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 9, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHINESE FROM N.Y. SHIP LIKELY TO GET ASYLUM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Barring a shift in U.S. immigration policy, the Chinese refugees who jumped ship
off New York are as likely to gain political asylum as their countrymen

who arrive legally aboard airliners, visas in hand.

And their chances are statistically much better than those of illegal

immigrants from most other countries-- 85 percent of Chinese applicants win

approval, compared with about 35 percent for immigrants as a whole, the

Immigration and Naturalization Service says.

To win political asylum, applicants must prove they would face persecution if
forcibly returned. The cases typically take about 18 months, during which

many simply vanish into the ethnic communities of U.S. cities.

Immigration experts say the reason most often cited by Chinese who seek

asylum is their country's strict birth control policy, which limits families

to one child and includes forced abortions and sterilization.

Lawyers say that policy became an acceptable basis for granting asylum

during the Reagan years, when the White House was pressured by abortion foes.
White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said, "We're reviewing the

cases on an individual basis and will make a determination on an individual

basis."

Under normal procedure, most of the 288 who endured a brutal three-month

voyage aboard the rickety freighter Golden Venture would be released to await
court rulings. Meantime, they would likely blend into the busy street life of
New York's Chinatown.

But Edward J. McElroy, deputy director of the INS office in New York, said the
group would remain in federal detention as "an example of deterrence"--

to the Asian gangs responsible for the human trafficking.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 17, 1993 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

RENO: IMMIGRATION POLICY NEEDS OVERHAUL

BYLINE: Newsday

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 369 words


Attorney General Janet Reno told members of Congress Wednesday that

tackling the country's troubled immigration system is her top priority because
"she knew that the system was broke," as one congressman put it.

In a closed-door briefing to members of the House immigration

subcommittee, Reno acknowledged that the laws need a major overhaul, said Rep.
Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., who attended the briefing.

"She said they were going to take a look at everything from start to

finish, that it just wasn't working, that the waits are too long and the laws
are drawn up wrong," Schumer said.

Also Wednesday, National Security Council staff members briefed aides from the
Senate immigration subcommittee, telling them that they would soon

announce a coordinated, interagency strategy to crack the alien smuggling

rings that own ships like the Golden Venture, which ran aground off New York

City on June 6. At least nine Chinese passengers died.

Reno, whose department oversees the Immigration and Naturalization

Service, wants stiffer penalties for smugglers of aliens and better

coordination between various intelligence sources and government agents, said
her spokeswoman, Caroline Aronovitz.

"The government is so compartmentalized that one side often doesn't know

what the other side is doing," Aronovitz said.

The new strategy could land hundreds of arrivals behind bars, despite

complaints by the INS that the agency is short of detention space.

Immigration lawyers and members of Congress have complained for years

about the unwieldy and often contradictory immigration processes. They say

that people genuinely fleeing persecution are kept waiting for years before

their cases are resolved.

They say the situation has worsened since President Clinton took office

and the former INS commissioner resigned. Clinton has yet to appoint a

replacement.

INS special agent Wayne McKenna said he hopes that expanded detention

facilities would be paid for with a never-used $35 million account set aside

in 1986 for INS "emergencies."

McKenna, who heads the INS plan to halt smuggling from China, said that

stopping smugglers would "take a lot of different measures: diplomatic

approaches, stiffer detention and penalties, more resources and funding."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ALSO LO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 17, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MORE GAYS REQUESTING ASYLUM IN U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Mohammed is so tormented by the dangers facing gays in his native Iran he talks
of nightmares in which his family joins the secret police to hunt him down.

``If I went back to Iran, I'd be dead in a day,'' said Mohammed.

The 32-year-old designer is one of a growing number of applicants seeking asylum
in the United States citing persecution in their native countries for their
sexual orientation. In Iran, the penalty for sodomy is death.

Mohammed, who agreed to discuss his case only on condition that his name not be
used, applied for asylum in April 1993 to avoid returning to the Islamic
republic.

His is one of three test cases being pursued by the Lambda Legal Defense and
Education Fund, a gay-rights group, in an effort to ease federal asylum rules
for homosexuals. But the Immigration and Naturalization Service says
homosexuality does not give anyone an automatic right to asylum.

Lawyers handling such cases estimate that since the United States in 1990
repealed a law that excluded all homosexuals from immigration, about 20
homosexuals have applied for sanctuary based on claims of anti-gay persecution
abroad.

So far, only one person has received asylum based on sexual orientation. Last
month, an immigration judge in San Francisco granted refuge to Brazilian Marcelo
Tenorio, who, according to lawyers, said he had been hunted down by anti-gay
commando groups.

That case does not necessarily set a precedent for other cases.

Mohammed came to this country in 1984 on a work visa. That expired, and he
stayed on illegally. In April, he went to Lambda attorney Noemi Masliah and
agreed to become a test case for the gay asylum issue.

Mohammed said that because he is a member of HOMAN, an international Persian gay
and human rights group, Iran's zealous clerics may know he is homosexual.

``I have nightmares about going back to Iran. Often I dream of my parents
becoming government agents and turning me in,'' he said.

In addition to Mohammed, Lambda's test cases involve a Russian lesbian in San
Francisco and a Nicaraguan gay with AIDS in Texas.

If asylum is granted, they would be able to seek permanent residency.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 17, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INCREASED VIOLENCE IN HAITI HALTS DEPORTATION OF REFUGEES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 325 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has stopped deporting Haitians
because of the escalation of political violence in that country.

``We're aware of developments in Haiti and are sensitive,'' INS spokesman Duke
Austin said. ``We would not send anybody back if we thought they could be
harmed.''

Immigration officials will not deport Haitians until the violence has been
quelled, he said.

The Haitian Refugee Center in Miami urged President Clinton to ensure that none
of the estimated 20,000 to 25,000 Haitians who either are illegal aliens or
seeking political asylum in the United States would be deported for at least 12
to 18 months.

While pleased with the INS decision, some Haitians and their advocates were
skeptical of immigration officials' motivations.

``They didn't think conditions were so bad three days ago when they put one of
my clients on board a plane and sent him back to Haiti,'' lawyer Michael Ray
said.

Edy Sanon, a Haitian activist in Delray Beach, said: ``It is another way to show
that they are interested or compassionate. But in fact, it's a way to divert our
attention from what they should've done a long, long time ago.''

The INS decision came a day after gunmen assassinated Haiti's pro-democracy
justice minister, Guy Malary, his driver and bodyguard.

What confused some Haitian advocates was that the decision followed a monthlong
period in which immigration officials in Miami had stepped up deportations of
Haitians, critics say.

``It's long overdue, obviously,'' immigration lawyer Candice Jean said. ``But I
can't fathom why they began to round up, arrest and deport Haitians in the last
few weeks.''

Immigration officials arrested some Haitians after ``entrapping them,'' by
calling them in for hearings on their applications for work permits, said Steven
Forester, supervising lawyer for the Haitian Refugee Center.

Most of those arrested did not know deportation orders had been issued against
them, Forester said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 28, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GORE VIDAL SNUBS WRITER'S MEETING OVER VISA

BYLINE: Reuter

SECTION: ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 5J

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY


American writer Gore Vidal has cancelled his appearance at the annual Adelaide
Writers' Week because Australia's immigration laws require him to apply for a
visa, organizers said last week.

The resident of Italy, calling Australia ``Il paradiso di Keating'' (a play on
the name of Prime Minister Paul Keating) said in a letter to the organizers that
unless the immigration laws were changed, he would not attend the event.

Melbourne's The Age newspaper parodied Vidal in an editorial Tuesday, saying
Australia's laws should not faze ``such a man of the world, especially one from
America which has among the most stringent immigration laws of any Western
country.''

Organizers, who had relied on Vidal as a drawing card, said they would replace
him with ``an equally important American writer who doesn't think he is more
important than the immigration laws.''

The festival will be held from February 27 to March 4.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 15, 1993 Wednesday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

INS OFFICIALS MAY DEPORT I-95 SHOOTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 126 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A man convicted of shooting randomly at cars on Interstate 95 in St. Lucie
County was arrested by immigration officials and could be deported to Colombia.

Hugo Avendano, who was sentenced to six months of house arrest and placed on
three years' probation last month, is being held on $25,000 bail while he awaits
a hearing before an immigration judge in Louisiana, an official with the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday.

Immigrants convicted of violent crimes can be deported to their native country,
said George Waldroup, special assistant to the district director of INS in
Miami.

Avendano, 33, was arrested at his West Palm Beach home Tuesday, Waldroup said.
He was being taken to the INS Criminal Alien Detention Center in Oakdale, La.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 15, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WASHINGTON ON TUESDAY

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 260 words


D.C. OFFICERS ARRESTED: Twelve police officers were arrested for alleged bribery
and drug conspiracy in an undercover FBI sting after an agent posed as a Miami
narcotics dealer. The District of Columbia policemen protected cocaine shipments
coming into Washington by blocking searches by fellow officers, according to an
indictment resulting from the FBI's Operation Broken Faith. Bribes totaled
$80,000, the indictment stated.

JORDAN PICKED: President Clinton appointed Barbara Jordan, a former member of
Congress from Houston, to chair an immigration reform commission. The
nine-member U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform was created by Congress in
1990 to evaluate the impact of recent changes in immigration policy and to
recommend further changes.

CARTOON WITH CONSCIENCE: DIC Entertainment, producers of TV's Captain Planet,
Dennis the Menace, and Sonic, the Hedgehog, announced a 12-point code of
standards to use cartoon characters to teach values and self-esteem.

FOR NICER LAWYERS: Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said the U.S. legal
system should be improved through more technology, fewer trials and more polite
lawyers. She offered ideas for solving some of the problems in the civil justice
system.

EX-CAMP GUARD TO BE DEPORTED: Alexander Schweidler, an admitted Nazi
concentration camp guard in Austria during World War Two, has been ordered
deported to Britain from the United States, the U.S. Justice Department said. It
said a federal immigration judge in Miami gave Schweidler, 71, of Inverness,
Fla., until Feb. 1 to leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 23, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. GRANTS CASTRO'S DAUGHTER ASYLUM

BYLINE: By ARTHUR BRICE and DEBORAH SCROGGINS Palm Beach Post-Cox News Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


The daughter of Fidel Castro stepped off a Delta flight from Madrid into
Hartsfield International Airport and was granted political asylum, the top
immigration official in Atlanta said Wednesday.

The arrival of Alina Fernandez Revuelta, a longtime critic of her father who has
been barred from leaving Cuba for years, was confirmed a day after her arrival
Tuesday.

Government officials refused to give her whereabouts, but a news conference at
the Columbus, Ga., penthouse home of Elena Amos, a wealthy Cuban-American
activist, is scheduled today.

Last Christmas, Amos bankrolled the daring rescue of an escaped Cuban pilot's
family.

Government officials said Fernandez, who has declared her father a ``tyrant''
and rejected his last name, was in seclusion in a private residence. They
expressed concerns for her safety.

``We are responsible for her care. We have taken all appropriate action to
ensure her safety and security,'' said Thomas Fischer, southeastern director of
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The departure of Fernandez is another propaganda blow for Cuba, which is
suffering economically.

Having been barred from travel abroad since childhood, the daughter of Castro
left a teenage daughter behind, taking a flight from Cuba to Madrid on Monday.
There, she walked into the American embassy and asked for asylum.

Fischer personally met Fernandez at the Atlanta airport. She has reportedly been
in poor health for the last few years, but Fischer said she seemed in good
spirits.

``She was nattily dressed in a sweater and slacks,'' he said. ``She was bright
and articulate and there was no indication of any physical or mental problem.''

Fernandez declared her age, long a matter of speculation among Cuba watchers, to
be 37.

State Department officials refused to confirm or deny that Amos and her
foundation were involved in the defection.

Amos, the Cuban-American widow of in-

surance magnate John Amos, last year gave Orestes Lorenzo $30,000 to buy an
airplane, which the former MiG pilot used to snatch his wife and two children
off a stretch of road in Cuba. Lorenzo had flown his MiG-23 to the Florida Keys
a year earlier.

The Washington Post reported that Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chairman of the Armed
Services Committee, apparently had a hand in Fernandez's defection, but only
after she left Cuba.

Nunn said in a statement that his office ``was contacted recently and advised
that Fernandez had departed Cuba and wished to enter the United States. My staff
arranged for the appropriate United States government officials to make contact
with her.''

Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina said in Havana that he did not know how
she got out of the country, Reuters news agency reported.

Robaina declined to comment on the defection or speculate on how Castro would
react to it.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/C
 RICK McKAY/Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau Alina Fernandez Revuelta, daughter
of Fidel Castro, is shown in a 1991 file photo at the door of her apartment in
Cuba.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 26, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS `CONVERT' FOR CHANCE AT ASYLUM

BYLINE: Newsday

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4AAA

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: YORK, PA.


Dozens of undocumented Chinese immigrants who are in jail here are rushing to
get baptized as Christians, even though most are Buddhists, in a misguided bid
to gain freedom as legal immigrants.

``I am Christian. I've been baptized. My roommate has been baptized, too, and he
said if you are Christian you are eligible for bail,'' said Lin Min Long, 28, a
textile factory worker from Fujian, and one of the men from the smugglers' ship,
the Golden Venture, which ran aground off a beach in Queens, N.Y., in June.

Their lawyers and other advocates say that six months after their dramatic and
illegal entry into the United States, the men are clinging to the smallest shred
of hope, even to the unfounded rumor that conversion to Christianity means
political asylum, as they fight to remain in the country.

All have applied for political asylum, but only a handful have been released,
most to relatives in New York City. Just weeks before the Golden Venture
disgorged 277 undocumented Chinese immigrants - after a harrowing months-long
voyage from China, through Southeast Asia, to Africa, and finally to New York
City - it seemed that anyone could be granted political asylum in the United
States by claiming to have been victimized by China's one-child-per-family
population policy, which includes forced sterilizations and abortions.

But that changed after the Golden Venture, as the Immigration and Naturalization
Service cracked down on undocumented immigrants. Instead of granting asylum to
Chinese applicants under the one-child policy rule, they were denied bail and
held in jail. Some women refugees presented well-documented cases of forced
sterilizations and abortions but were denied asylum anyway.

``We had 14 boats before the Golden Venture. We haven't had another for six
months,'' said Duke Austin, an INS official. ``Some message is getting
through.''

But the INS vow ``to make an example'' of the Golden Venture - and to discourage
other smuggler's ships - resulted in unfair asylum hearings for the Chinese
applicants, said Craig Trebilcock, a lawyer who is leading the fight against
deportation.

Trebilcock and a team of lawyers have filed a lawsuit in federal court in
Harrisburg, Pa., and have achieved minor success: a temporary court order,
effective until Tuesday, banning the INS from deporting the Golden Venture
refugees in Pennsylvania, and a judge's order that will allow immigration
lawyers to subpoena documents and compel INS officials to submit to depositions.

Jan Ting, a former INS commissioner who teaches immigration law at Temple
University in Philadelphia, said the government's rationale in ``making an
example out of the Chinese'' should be questioned.

``I'm concerned with the selective enforcement on this case,'' Ting said.
``There has been a historical racial bias.'' Ting and other advocates argue that
most undocumented immigrants who apply for asylum are allowed bail and released.

Austin said the INS has legal basis to detain the Chinese refugees.

``It's not politicized. It's not discriminatory. All we're saying is you can't
abuse the asylum process,'' Austin said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 21, 1992 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

TWO CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING MIGRANTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


A federal grand jury has indicted two men on charges that they smuggled

undocumented Mexican workers into Highlands County to work as migrant farmers.
Jose Jesus Barajas-Chavez of Lake Placid, Fla., and Jorge Fernando Rico-

Soto of Mexico appeared before a U.S. magistrate in Fort Pierce on Tuesday

after their arrests early Tuesday by agents with the U.S. Border Patrol.

Undercover agents infiltrated the smuggling ring and transported Mexican

workers from the Texas border to Highlands County.

Agents searched the offices and homes of Barajas-Chavez and five other

licensed labor contractors in Lake Placid and arrested 145 undocumented

workers in what they termed "Operation Spring Harvest."

Workers not charged with criminal offenses will be deported to Mexico, the U.S.
Attorney's Office said. If convicted, Barajas-Chavez faces up to 77 years in
prison and a fine of $3.5 million. Rico-Soto could be sentenced to up to 30
years in prison and fined $1.5 million.

The indictment does not allege that citrus growers who contracted with

Barajas-Chavez for migrant workers intentionally hired undocumented workers.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  In Brief / Also ran Lake O

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 19, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLINTON PROGRAM TO COMBAT ALIEN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Decrying a "practice of unspeakable exploitation," President Clinton

announced a program Friday to combat alien smuggling that would combine

stiffer penalties with steps to make it harder for smuggled aliens to

disappear undetected once they arrive in this country.

To carry out the task, he nominated Doris Meissner, an immigration expert and
former acting commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, to
head the embattled agency. Saying immigration "must be a priority,"

Clinton said that despite America's immigrant history, "we can't afford to

lose control of our own borders or take on new financial burdens at a time

when we are not adequately providing" for all Americans.

Clinton detailed his anti-smuggling program amid intense publicity about

the shipboard smuggling of nearly 2,000 Chinese to U.S. ports so far this

year. In a Rose Garden ceremony, Clinton said that the plan showed America's

"abhorrence of the trafficking in human beings for profit, and its

determination to combat this illegal activity."

With Meissner now chosen,

administration aides will begin crafting a policy to satisfy a growing outcry
over illegal immigration -- from Democrats and Republicans alike-- while

trying not to offend the sensitivities of minority constituents.

Despite the fanfare, the anti-smuggling plan was rushed into public view

before it had been completed. Administration aides acknowledged they were at

least two weeks away from drafting the legislative proposals that give the

plan much of its force; as recently as last month, administration officials

conceded in congressional testimony that they could not specify which of

several approaches they planned to take.

The legislation will seek to increase the smuggling penalties from the

current five years in prison to 20 years. It will seek to set anti-smuggling

penalties under the Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations act for

such crimes, and to give federal authorities broader powers to seize the

assets of such smugglers.

It will also seek to create so-called "summary exclusion" procedures for

smuggled aliens. Under such procedures, aliens would receive admission

hearings on an accelerated basis-- in perhaps as little as 10 days, compared

to periods that now run from 18 months to 3 years. And, in a significant

departure from current practice, they would not be "paroled" but detained,

so they could not disappear into American society as illegal residents.

The new anti-smuggling sanctions would not, however, affect aliens who are
smuggled across the U.S-Mexican border by "coyotes" in trucks or buses,

officials said. It is instead meant to apply only to smuggling operations of

organized criminals who have operations and assets abroad and in the United

States.

Through stiffer penalties for smugglers and the prospect of detention for
aliens, the administration hopes to dampen the incentive for such smuggling on
both ends.

"We hope to send a message," said an administration official.

However, the administration apparently does not intend to alter the

special consideration given to Chinese immigrants who claim they have suffered
from a Chinese government policy that restricts couples from having more than
one child. Many Chinese immigrants have successfully cited such persecution in
pressing asylum claims.

While the administration is not likely to abandon such treatment, an aide said,
"We want to look and see whether or not this claim has been abused."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/MUG/MEISSNER, DORIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 26, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

PEOPLE'S WILL IS A 'WON'T'

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 166 words


After a federal judge struck down parts of California's Proposition 187, which
bans some public services for illegal aliens, Gov. Pete Wilson pouted that the
ruling ''frustrates the will of the people of California.''

The state will appeal. If Prop 187 is finally upheld, it will cost more in crime
and epidemics than it saves by keeping people out of schools and hospitals.

You may remember California's Orange County. The one that doesn't pay its debts.
Its financial disaster grew out of trying to make bond market killings to pay
for services the state stopped supporting due to a series of tax limits, all
established by the will of the people.

Those limits also are why some Californians pay higher property tax on their
modest homes than the stars whose mansions are featured on bus tours.

California's referendum laws let the people work their will freely. The more the
voters get their way, the less governable their state becomes, and the more
frustrated the people get.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              94 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 10, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA'S NEXT MEXICAN IMPORT COULD BE MORE FARMWORKERS

BYLINE: LISA SHUCHMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1643 words


At a time when Congress is considering ways to stem the flow of immigration into
the United States, Florida farmers are lobbying for legislation that would allow
them to import more foreign labor.

The same growers who have been pressing Washington to curtail imports of
Mexican-grown produce now want the government to give them the right to import
Mexican farmworkers.

Their push is part of a lobbying effort launched by a national coalition of
agribusinesses. And that campaign has led to the introduction of an amendment to
the immigration reform bill currently under consideration in Congress.

If it passes, farmers would be permitted to bring as many as 250,000 foreign
farmworkers to the United States on temporary work visas.

The farmers say they will need these temporary workers because Congress' planned
crackdown on illegal immigration will result in labor shortages.

But opponents of the measure say this isn't true. Most of the farmworkers
harvesting crops in America's fields are here legally, they say. And they cite
statistics showing there is, in fact, a surplus of farm labor in the United
States.

''This is not about a shortage of labor. It's about lowering wages,'' said
Florida Legal Services attorney Rob Williams. ''It's about creating a huge pool
of impoverished, desperate workers and reducing the work force to a state of
peonage.''

Farmers say that up to 70 percent of the people doing seasonal farm work in this
country are illegal aliens with forged papers. The Labor Department puts the
figure at closer to 25 percent.

Regardless of the number, growers of highly perishable crops say some of the
provisions of the immigration reform bill, such as a requirement that employers
confirm an alien's legal status through a telephone verification system, could
cause shortages at crucial times. That's why they need to be able to bring in
temporary foreign labor, they say.

The government already allows farmers to bring in a temporary foreign work force
under its H-2A program - named for the visa status the workers receive. That
program was utilized by Florida's sugar cane industry for more than 50 years
until the sugar companies gradually abandoned manual labor for machines.

But most farmers don't want to use the H-2A program.

''It's never worked,'' said Walter Kates, director of labor relations for the
Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association. ''The H-2A program is a bureaucratic
nightmare, and the costs are too high.''

In Florida, the H2-A program prompted a legion of lawsuits that alleged the
sugar companies had underpaid workers or violated government regulations. In the
most dramatic case, the largest companies were ordered to pay workers $ 51
million in back wages. That case is now on appeal.

Aside from the potential for lawsuits, the H-2A program is unpopular among
farmers because it requires them to provide housing and transportation for
workers.

Growers also must guarantee that workers will be paid for at least
three-quarters of the season. And they have to pay workers more than the
prevailing average wage generally paid for that type of farm work.

In addition, growers using H-2A labor are required during the first half of the
season to hire any domestic farmworkers who apply for the job. And before the
U.S. Department of Labor will allow them to hire foreign workers, the farmers
must advertise the jobs and prove to the government that a labor shortage
actually exists.

''The H-2A program only lends itself to large businesses that use a large number
of workers for a long period,'' said Scottie Butler, general counsel for the
Florida Farm Bureau. ''We need something else - a program that is 'H2-A lite.'
''

Looking for 'H2-A lite'

The program farmers want Congress to approve is ''H2-A lite.'' It would, for
example, allow growers to simply attest that there is a shortage of labor, and
foreign laborers would be granted work visas. And it would allow growers to
declare the prevailing average wage for the work being offered.

Under the H-2A program, the Department of Labor has to certify that a shortage
exists before a farmer can bring in foreign workers. It also monitors prevailing
wage studies to ensure that the hiring of foreign workers would not depress the
wages of farmworkers who are U.S. citizens or legal residents.

''The only check on the growers' unlimited access to foreign workers would be if
a worker filed a complaint,'' Williams said in testimony before members of the
House Judiciary Committee in December. ''Of course, the foreign workers will be
reluctant to file a complaint for fear that they would be blacklisted from
future employment in the United States.''

It would be up to U.S. farmworkers to conduct their own investigations and then
convince the Labor Department to take action, he added.

Bring back 'braceros'

The proposed foreign worker program is often compared to the old Bracero
Program, which was established in 1942 to allow U.S. farmers to bring in strong,
hardworking farm laborers from Mexico. The word ''bracero'' in Spanish literally
means ''strong arms.''

In the early 1960s, the Kennedy Administration concluded that the program had
displaced U.S. farmworkers and depressed the wages and working conditions of all
farm laborers. In 1964, the program was eliminated.

Before it ended, however, more than 4 million laborers had entered the United
States from Mexico. And experts on immigration say the program actually paved
the way for higher levels of illegal immigration.

This point has made the new program quite controversial among Washington
lawmakers. House Judiciary Committee members Howard Berman, D-Calif., and James
Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., both say the program runs counter to everything
immigration reform is trying to accomplish.

''Make no mistake,'' they wrote last month in a letter to colleagues.
''Guestworkers are one-way immigrants.''

In an effort to entice workers to leave the U.S. when the season is ended,
farmers have included in their proposal a provision that would allow them to
withhold 25 percent of the farmworkers' wages. The workers would only receive
that money if they return to their home country.

But immigration experts say the 25 percent withholding is not going to prevent
people who come from poor, developing countries from staying in the U.S., where
they can earn higher wages.

In fact, both the Commission on Agricultural Workers and the Commission on
Immigration Reform - known as the Jordan Commission after its late chairwoman,
Barbara Jordan - recommended against the establishment of a new ''guestworker''
program for agriculture.

''The Commission believes that an agriculture guestworker program . . . is not
in the national interest and unanimously and strongly agrees that such a program
would be a grievous mistake,'' the Jordan Commission wrote.

Enough workers in U.S.

These studies say there are more than enough legal farmworkers in the U.S. to
meet farmers' needs.

More than 1 million farmworkers who were previously undocumented became legal
immigrants under an amnesty program included in the immigration reform bill
Congress passed in 1986, for example. And the Labor Department estimates that at
any given time, 12 percent, or at least 190,000 domestic farmworkers, are out of
a job.

Nevertheless, the House Agriculture Committee last week approved the amendment
on a vote of 25 to 14.

This week, the proposal goes to the Senate Judiciary Committee.

It's unclear what will happen there. But even the Clinton Administration has
weighed in on the issue.

Secretary of Labor Robert Reich and U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno wrote to
Senate Judiciary chairman Orin Hatch, R-Utah, that they would ''strongly
recommend'' a veto of the entire immigration legislation if it included
temporary foreign farmworker provisions for agriculture.

This could prompt farmers to modify their stance somewhat in an effort to get a
compromise through Congress. But if they get even half of what they're
demanding, farmworkers would suffer, said Bruce Goldstein, an attorney with the
Washington-based farmworker Justice Fund.

Meanwhile, the farmers are still pushing.

''If we never have to need the program, that's great,'' Kates said. ''But we
don't want to wait and find out once we have a crop in the ground that we can't
find workers. We don't want to wait for a crisis.''

UNHIRED HANDS

AMERICAN FARMERS say they will need many more foreigners to work their fields if
immigration reform goes through. However, government statistics show that
thousands of farmworkers already legally in the U.S. who wanted to work on farms
in 1993 and 1994 were not hired:

STATE UNREFERRED APPLICANTS

    Texas            19,352
   California       14,769
   Washington        8,987
   Florida           4,880
   Puerto Rico       4,296
   Michigan          4,091
   Arizona           3,376
   North Carolina    3,116
   Minnesota         2,902
   Oregon            2,661
   New Mexico        1,193
   Idaho               757
   Ohio                751
   Illinois            618
   New York            594
   Georgia             526
   Pennsylvania        463
   Wisconsin           356
   Hawaii              343
   South Carolina      317
   Colorado            270
   Virginia            253
   Wyoming             241
   TOTAL            75,112

Source: U.S. Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration Migrant
Indicators of Compliance, June 1994

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), THE PALM BEACH POST/1988 FILE PHOTO, Farmers say proposed
reforms to keep illegal farmworkers out of the U.S. will make it impossible for
them to grow and pick their crops.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              95 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 2, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

PSYCHOLOGISTS TO ASSESS WELL-BEING OF CUBAN CHILDREN HELD AT KROME

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


U.S. prosecutors agreed Thursday to have child psychologists determine if Cubans
under the age of 18 at an immigration center in southern Dade County have
suffered emotionally from their detention.

The prosecutors were responding to a request in federal court by attorneys for
the minors. Robert Boyer and Leo Ochoa are suing for the release of about 100
juveniles from the Krome Detention Center, citing a U.S. immigration policy
prohibiting prolonged detention of minors.

U.S. District Judge Federico Moreno urged government prosecutors to arrange for
the child psychologists to visit Krome. Ochoa had told the judge he feared
long-term detention would harm the emotional well-being of the children, all of
whom are accompanied by at least one parent. Many of the juveniles have been at
Krome for two weeks, since President Clinton ordered the detention of fleeing
Cubans.

Moreno gave prosecutors 15 days to respond to the suit. He scheduled another
court appearance for Sept. 22.

Boyer said he was hopeful that the government would arrange for the release of
the minors before the next court date, but prosecutors did not offer to
negotiate a settlement Thursday.

''We realize this is a highly sensitive issue,'' Prosecutor Dexter Lee told the
judge.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              96 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 17, 1994, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

U.S. RELEASING CUBAN REFUGEE CHILDREN, PARENTS

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The government has released 53 Cuban children and parents from the Krome
Detention Center in the last two days and more than 100 will follow in the
coming days, after a modification in the month-old policy of indefinitely
detaining refugees.

Attorney General Janet Reno told Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials of the policy shift in the wake of legal and political pressure from
immigration lawyers and exile activists seeking the release of Cuban minors in
U.S. detention.

Exile leaders now are trying to get the policy change extended to the thousands
of young refugees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

''There are many urgent cases of women and children at Guantanamo,'' said
Francisco Hernandez, president of the Cuban American National Foundation and
member of a civic panel negotiating conditions at Krome. ''I hope the government
will at least consider the same guidelines for the others.''

But U.S. officials say the policy shift will not apply to detainees outside the
United States.

The change took effect quietly Wednesday and applies to Cuban detainees at Krome
and an immigration detention center in Texas. Refugees will be paroled into the
community with the help of relief agencies if they are:

Unaccompanied children under the age of 18.

Accompanied children with one parent or guardian.

Persons ''presenting humanitarian concerns,'' such as the elderly and those with
medical needs.

''From now on, any Cuban refugee who arrives in the United States and falls into
one of these categories will be paroled,'' INS spokesman Lemar Wooley said.

On Thursday, 19 children and 18 adults were released. Another nine children and
seven adults were paroled Friday. Of the 557 Cuban detainees who remain at
Krome, 69 are under 18. Wooley said the rest of the minors will be released in
the next few days.

Because only one parent or guardian for every child is being released, families
at Krome are being separated. Belkis Valdez and her two daughters, Claudia, 2,
and Gleydis, 7, were paroled Thursday. But Valdez left her mother at the remote
West Dade facility.

''It's sad to leave her, but I couldn't stand keeping my children in there
anymore,'' Valdez said.

Long before Reno's modification, immigration officials had strayed from the
unprecedented policy of indefinite detention for Cubans. Over the past month, 19
Cubans from Krome have been released as medical or humanitarian cases, including
four pregnant women, a paraplegic man and his wife, and a mother and her
2-month-old child.

All of the Cubans released since Reno's policy shift have relatives in Dade
County, said Tania Medina, director of the U.S. Catholic Conference in Miami, an
agency that helps resettle Cuban refugees.

Miami immigration lawyers Robert Boyer and Leo Ochoa sued the U.S. government
for the release of minors held at Krome and a parent. The suit said the minors
would suffer emotional harm if held for a prolonged period.

The policy shift was not a result of settlement negotiations in the suit, Boyer
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              97 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 25, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INMATES RETURNING TO REBUILT PRISON

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 73 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Repairs have been completed in a section of the hurricane-damaged federal

prison in south Dade County, allowing about 200 prisoners to move back from

immigration's Krome Detention Center.

The move means that immigration officials once again have full use of

Krome, easing a space crunch that had forced them recently to parole 71

Haitian asylum seekers.

Full repairs at the 1,402-bed Metropolitan Correctional Center should be

completed by March.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  State / Regional News / In Brief / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 4, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS IN FOURTH DAY OF HUNGER STRIKE

BYLINE: The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 169 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Haitians being held in a U.S. immigration detention camp refused to eat for the
fourth day Sunday to protest what they charge is preferential treatment

given to Cuban refugees.

"We want our freedom like the Cubans," the Haitians said in a letter

released Sunday.

The hunger strike was prompted by the lionization on television talk shows and
in the press of two Cuban pilots who in recent days brought about 50 Cuban
defectors to the United States.

All of the Cubans not only were released almost immediately by Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials, but one of the men-- former Cuban air

force Maj. Orestes Lorenzo-- has appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno

and Larry King Live! And Friday he served as grand marshal of a parade at

Disney World in Orlando.

In their letter, the Haitians locked up at the Krome Detention Camp, said that
they would refuse food until they are released like "the Cubans who come in
planes without documents." Most of them entered the United States

illegally in crude wooden boats.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 10, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HUNDREDS PROTEST HAITIAN POLICY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Hundreds of angry demonstrators chanting "justice for Haitians" jammed

the gates of the federal immigration detention camp where 45 Haitians refugees
entered the 10th day of their hunger strike Saturday.

"I have to fight for my people to be free . . . this is injustice, this

is racism," said Sadrac Valentine, 30, surrounded by about 250 protestors at

the entrance of the Krome Detention Center.

Inside the facility, six men and 39 women detainees, who have vowed not to eat
until they are released, are well into the second week of their protest

against what they say are unfair U.S. immigration practices against Haitians.

Ken Powers of the Immigration and Naturalization Service stood in front of the
demonstrators, but would not comment on the protest or hunger strike.

"Until it's over with, there'll be no statements," Powers said.

In Haiti, U.S. Embassy officials said Saturday that a visit by a senior

U.S. general last week signaled to Haitian military leaders that they must

reinstate ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

The official said Marine Maj. Gen. John Sheehan's meeting with Haiti's

army chief-- less than two weeks before President-elect Clinton takes office

-- reflects Washington's support for the return of Haiti's first

democratically elected leader.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 25, 1994, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

IN COURT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 255 words


WEST PALM BEACH

Jurors deliberated Richard Bennett Barker's federal immigrant smuggling case for
five hours Wednesday, but asked to return today to continue. U.S. District Judge
Edward Davis dismissed all but three of the smuggling charges because Assistant
U.S. Attorney Tom Blair did not show that most of the Haitians Barker allegedly
dumped in the surf were undocumented immigrants. Barker is charged with
negligent homicide in the drownings of two adults and two children.

The wife of a man who was shot and killed in a Southern Bell parking lot in 1992
filed a wrongful death suit Wednesday in Palm Beach County Circuit Court.
Cirenia Valdovinos claims BellSouth Telecommunications Inc. - formerly Southern
Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co. - did not provide a safe environment when her
husband, Raul, was shot and killed, the lawsuit said. Raul Valdovinos went to
the phone company at 3640 Avenue E in Riviera Beach in September 1992 to do
maintenance work on the building, the suit said.

Audrey Colflesh, former personal secretary to businessman Frederick M. Supper,
filed a lawsuit Wednesday against the Palm Beach man and his wife, Patricia.
Colflesh charges she was fired without a retirement plan or severance pay after
working for the former president and CEO of Alexander Proudfoot Co. for 28
years. Colflesh said she was promised $ 40,000 annually for the rest of her
life, according to the suit. Colflesh charges Patricia Supper changed her
husband's will to cut off Colflesh's payments, the suit said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              101 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 25, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

FEDS SAY THEY HAVE HAITIANS' SMUGGLER

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 708 words


A Boynton Beach man was indicted Thursday on charges of smuggling 27 Haitians
from the Bahamas to the waters off the Martin-St. Lucie County line, where he
ejected his human cargo'' into the surf, according to federal authorities.

Four Haitian refugees - two adults and two children - drowned as a result of the
actions of Richard Bennett Barker, 43, said Kendall Coffey, U.S. attorney for
South Florida.

Barker was arrested in West Palm Beach Thursday and is being held in the Martin
County Jail. At a court hearing in Fort Pierce today, federal prosecutors will
ask a judge to keep Barker jailed without bail. He is charged with 27 counts of
alien smuggling which carry a total maximum sentence of 140 years in prison and
a $ 250,000 fine.

The captain of that boat (Barker) and the others responsible for organizing that
voyage were shamelessly exploiting the conditions of others,'' Coffey said.
They were trafficking in human cargo.''

The U.S. attorney indicated that Barker was working with other refugee
smugglers. He did not say whether the co-conspirators would be charged.

On the night of Feb. 7, Barker dropped the 27 refugees into the ocean near
Hutchinson Island after smuggling them out of Freeport, Bahamas, Coffey said.
The bodies of Jean Baptiste, 7, Kenol Louis, 6, Ermanite Joseph, 42, and Rene
Chauvette, 28, were discovered the next morning. The other refugees managed to
scamper ashore in the night but were captured by immigration agents.

After the drop-off, Barker took his boat to West Palm Beach, where he told U.S.
Customs agents that he had traveled alone from Freeport, Coffey said. Federal
agents seized Barker's 31-foot open fishing boat a few days later from a Riviera
Beach marina and searched it.

In June 1993, Perry McCann told Boynton Beach police that Barker had borrowed
his 31-foot Chris-Craft Scorpion power boat in December 1992 and had not
returned it, according to Lt. William Galbraith II, the department's spokesman.
McCann said he had been keeping the boat at Barker's house and let him use the
boat when he asked.

But in the six months that the boat was missing, McCann said he talked to Barker
only three times. Barker said that the boat had broken down - either in Miami or
the Keys - and was being repaired. The boat is worth between $ 150,000 and $
500,000, police estimated.

The Martin County Sheriff's Office also is investigating the drownings.
Detectives have said that manslaughter or second-degree murder charges are
possible if Barker released the Haitians in hazardous conditions that caused
their deaths. Border Patrol agents have said that the refugees who drowned may
have been dropped off in deep water.

Capt. Bill Snyder said Barker did not want to talk with investigators about the
deaths, but Martin County detectives still are interviewing survivors and other
witnesses. He hopes to present the results of the investigation to the state
attorney's office for a decision on possible additional charges next week.

Growing numbers of Haitians living in the Bahamas have attempted the trip to
South Florida in recent months, crowding aboard unsafe vessels. They are often
aided by smugglers who are sometimes paid more than $ 1,000 per family. Just
before dawn Sunday, about 40 Haitians headed to Miami crowded onto a 23-foot
motorboat in the Bahamas. The vessel flipped over about 2 miles from shore,
leaving 11 children and 23 adults missing and presumed dead.

The smuggling missions elicited stern language Wednesday from Bahamian Prime
Minister Hubert Ingraham.

The government will not permit a few unscrupulous persons to continue to profit
from the misery of others,'' Ingraham said.

Coffey conceded that many other vessel owners are smuggling Haitians into South
Florida. Unfortunately, he said, it often takes a tragedy at sea to find them
and make an arrest.

With sadness, we acknowledge that this case is just one example of the many
unfortunate episodes off the Florida coast, many of which we will never know
about,'' Coffey said.  To those people of Haiti who are exploring coming to this
country illegally, we implore you to refrain from that voyage.''

Palm Beach Post staff writer Jounice L. Nealy contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              102 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 3, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL MIGRANTS DON'T FACE ARREST

BYLINE: By MATT PRICHARD, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: FLORIDA CITY


The U.S. Border Patrol is trying to convince undocumented workers who may

be hiding from relief agencies in hurricane-ravaged areas of Dade County that
they can receive help without fear of arrest.

"We're just not going to arrest anyone at this point," said Marshall

Metzgar, chief patrol agent for the Border Patrol's Florida headquarters in

Pembroke Pines. "We're just concerned whether there are any aliens who do not
have food or medical supplies."

Metzgar said only undocumented workers discovered committing crimes would be
arrested by Border Patrol agents. Metzgar said the moratorium could last

months, although the length will depend on how quickly the county's recovery

proceeds.

The agency is also issuing temporary permits to undocumented workers who

are helping their families recover from the hurricane.

Border Patrol agents were busy passing out ice and other supplies in

heavily Hispanic areas east of Everglades National Park on Wednesday. About 15
have been working as translators and performing other relief duties since the
hurricane.

Agents said it was not always easy to change the attitude of people

accustomed to fleeing at the sight of their light green trucks. But some

farmworkers had accepted relief supplies in the Redlands agricultural area in
western Dade County, agents said.

Metzgar said the Border Patrol has been using an unmarked helicopter to

fly over remote areas in search of farmworkers who may not be reached by

relief efforts. Small labor camps that sometimes house undocumented workers

are common in remote areas of southern Florida.

The helicopter is equipped with a public-address system to announce the

temporary no-arrest policy. But Metzgar said that despite reports of workers

going into hiding, his pilots have located no pockets of undocumented

migrants.

In remote parts of the Redlands, many roads are flooded and, in some

cases, impassable. Carlos Gonzalez, 21, a construction worker who lives off

Southwest 136th Street, said Wednesday that he had not seen many undocumented
workers in the area since shortly after the hurricane.

"I know most of them got diseases and lots of cuts and scrapes and

everything," Gonzalez said. He said some of the workers lived on farms, and

some "make little tents out there" among clumps of trees.

Gonzalez said he doubted that many of the undocumented workers made it to a
shelter before the hurricane struck. "There's no place to go," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Andrew: Aftermath / Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 E.A. KENNEDY III/Staff Photographer Marines from the 8th Engineers string power
lines between tents at Homestead's Harris Field on Wednesday. Many tents are
ready, but most residents are staying with their property.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 22, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BAIRD WITHDRAWS AS NOMINEE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Zoe Baird, under fire for hiring illegal aliens to work in her home, has

withdrawn her name as President Clinton's nominee for U.S. Attorney General,

the White House said early today.

"With sadness, I have accepted her request that the nomination be

withdrawn," Clinton said in a statement released by White House press

secretary Dee Dee Myers.

Baird, in a letter to Clinton, said "the continuing controversy"

surrounding her nomination would impede her ability to reinvigorate the

Department of Justice.

Baird said she was "surprised at the extent of the public reaction" to

the controversy surrounding the hiring of two illegal aliens to help care for
her child.

"Your confidence in me to serve as the nation's Attorney General is the

highest honor I can imagine," she told Clinton. "Thank you again for your

confidence and the opportunity you gave me."

Clinton's statement said he received Baird's letter Thursday

night, "asking that I withdraw her nomination."

"Ms. Baird is a gifted attorney, and a woman of decency and integrity,"

the president said, blaming the review process before her selection to the

Cabinet to completely evaluate the issue of her hiring undocumented aliens.

"For that, I take full responsibility," Clinton said.

Earlier, a combative Baird had rejected calls to withdraw as attorney

general-designate despite rising public and congressional opposition. The

Clinton had administration offered her muted support.

"Right now, Zoe Baird is his nominee," White House spokesman George

Stephanopoulos told reporters Thursday afternoon as Baird underwent a second

day of grilling by the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Several senators announced their opposition, including two Republicans on the
Judiciary Committee, the lone Republican among the Senate's six women, and five
moderate Democrats.

A possible swing vote on the committee, Republican Arlen Specter of

Pennsylvania, said her prospects for confirmation are "very much up in the

air."

Baird, though, sought to put the issue behind her.

"I think that my overall record gives me the potential to be a great

attorney general," she testified. "The potential that I have to serve this

country . . . should override the particular incident."

Baird, 40, a $500,000-a-year lawyer for the Aetna Life & Casualty Co., has since
her nomination paid $2,900 in fines and roughly $12,000 in back taxes

and penalties for employing a Peruvian couple. The wife cared for her son

while the husband served as her driver and performed household chores, she

said.

The hearing concluded late Thursday and was originally set to resume at 10 a.m.
EST today. But following a meeting of key Judiciary Committee staffers,

the hearing was postponed until 1 p.m. There was no explanation for the delay.
Meanwhile, an ABC News-Washington Post poll said 58 percent of the 515

people interviewed by telephone Thursday night opposed Baird's confirmation,

while 32 percent supported it and 10 percent voiced no opinion. The survey

carried a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points.

Questions about the Baird nomination dominated the first White House news
briefing by Stephanopoulos, who said Thursday that the president was sticking
with his nominee.

"The president continues to think she'd make a good attorney general,"

he said. "Right now, Zoe Baird is his nominee. ... Give her a chance to

answer" the questions.

One Senate Democratic source, speaking anonymously, said if Clinton wanted to
save the nomination "he better be prepared to personally fight for it."

Quizzed about Clinton's knowledge of her lawbreaking before he nominated

her, Stephanopoulos said the details and timing were "rather murky."

"I don't know the nature of his exact discussions on this," he said.

CABINET CONFIRMATIONS

The Senate on Thursday gave its blessing to 15 men and women selected to serve
in President Clinton's Cabinet:

Leon Panetta: Director of Office of Management and Budget.

Robert Reich: Labor Secretary.

Alice Rivlin: Deputy Budget Director.

Roger Altman: Deputy Treasury Secretary.

Mike Espy: Agriculture Secretary.

Donna Shalala: Secretary of Health and Human Services.

Richard Riley: Education Secretary.

Henry Cisneros: Housing and Urban Development Secretary.

Hazel O'Leary: Energy Secretary.

Carol Browner: Environmental Protection Agency Chief. She was secretary of

Florida's Department of Environmental Regulation.

Mickey Kantor: Chief Trade Negotiator.

Jesse Brown: Veterans Affairs Secretary.

Federico Pena: Transportation Secretary.

Ron Brown: Commerce Secretary.

Bruce Babbitt: Interior Secretary.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/AP & MUG/BROWNER, CAROL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 29, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PROFESSOR: UNDOCUMENTED LABORERS ARE GOOD FOR U.S.

BYLINE: By SHERWOOD ROSS, Reuters

SECTION: BUSINESS DAY 1; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 684 words


The millions of undocumented Mexicans working illegally in the United

States are performing a valuable service for both countries, a university

economist contends.

In fact, what the United States has is "an informal guest worker program that
works best because it is illegal," says Professor James Likens of Pomona College
in Claremont, Calif.

MONEY IS SENT TO MEXICO

If the underground system were legalized-- along the lines, say, of

the German guest worker plan-- skilled Mexican craftsmen would be lured to the
United States and would try to settle here permanently, bringing their

families.

Instead, Likens says, unskilled workers are attracted to U.S. jobs and

send much of what they earn home to Mexico, energizing that country's

economy.

At the same time, undocumented workers-- thought to number between 3

million and 6 million-- help U.S. manufacturers fight off competition from

low-wage overseas competitors, he argues.

Julian Simon of the University of Maryland agrees. "If you were to roust them
(undocumented workers) from textile manufacturing in Los Angeles, they

(manufacturers) would start businesses on the other side of the border."

RAISING LIVING STANDARDS

Simon contends such workers, like immigrants, "raise our standard of living, do
not take jobs away from natives or increase unemployment and pay

more in taxes than they take out."

The experts say it is questionable whether U.S. employers could compete

using undocumented workers if they paid them minimum wage or better.

"I don't know how you would ever know if they're being paid the minimum

wage," Likens says. "But whatever they're getting paid is more than they

earned in Mexico, and they're sending back an enormous amount of money. It's

one of Mexico's leading sources of foreign exchange."

Union and government officials, however, say they have no trouble finding
undocumented Mexicans employed at wage levels below legal minimums.

Professor Jessica Govea of Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J.,

asserts there are many people working in manufacturing making less than

minimum wage in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn in New York.

"It's just blatant," she says. "There's child labor and the treatment

is inhuman."

Verne Jervis, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, agrees many illegals "are working below the minimum wage and wind up
giving back part of their wages (to employers) for food and rent."

EFFECT ON NATIVE WORKERS

Simons says 10 years worth of studies show no observable effect of

immigration on unemployment, but a study by Dartmouth College and Florida

State University researchers raises some new questions.

"We aren't saying that one blue-collar worker always leaves a community

when an immigrant worker comes in," said Dartmouth geographer Richard Barff.
"However, our research shows that when immigrant and American natives are

competing for similar low-skill jobs, it appears that this job competition

does influence where native workers decide they live."

FARM LABOR LESS AVAILABLE

One U.S. blue-collar worker, he says, is geographically displaced for every
seven immigrants hired to fill low-skill U.S. jobs.

But a survey of farmers by Jill Findeis, an agricultural economist at

Penn State University, found three of five said labor was less available in

1991 than 1990.

But Wendell Young, president of the Philadelphia region of United Food

and Commercial Workers in Blue Bell, Penn., said: "If they paid the minimum

wage or better, they'd get people to do the work. The unemployed would take

them."

In New York state, a report by Cornell University specialists recommended that
the condition of farm workers would be improved if they had the same

right to organize as non-farm workers.

The report found most of the state's agricultural workers are denied

fringe benefits such as overtime, unemployment insurance, disability benefits,
health care, paid vacations, rest days, sick days and retirement plans.

States having farm worker unions or collective bargaining rights include
Arizona, California, Florida, New Jersey and Ohio. However, 19 states have

legislation covering farm workers for minimum wage.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ON THE WORKPLACE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 20, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

54% TELL POLL U.S. ADMITS TOO MANY IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By JULIA MALONE, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Most Americans believe that the United States allows too many immigrants

into the country and should act to reduce the flow, according to a poll

released Tuesday.

In the survey, conducted by the Roper Organization, 54 percent said there were
too many immigrants arriving each year. Eighty-six percent called

immigration a "major" issue confronting the nation.

"Americans are unhappy . . . and they want changes," concluded Dan

Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform

(FAIR), the group that commissioned the study.

A national Hispanic group promptly charged FAIR with trying to incite an

anti-immigrant sentiment.

However, Stein said the survey showed that "public intensity . . . is

growing" because legal and illegal immigrants who come into the country

annually have strained schools and social services and flooded the job market
with low-wage, low-skilled workers.

The Roper poll, a cross-section of 1,000 people, found that 55 percent

favored a temporary freeze in immigration, and three-fourths said they

approved of a $2 border crossing fee.

The survey found that Hispanics held even stronger views than the general
population on border enforcement. Of those questioned, 93 percent said they

wanted their representatives to lead the effort to fight illegal immigration.
Whites held the same view by a margin of 85 percent.

In a related development, the Center for Immigration Studies issued a

study showing that the five leading states where immigrants settle have in the
past year had jobless rates that far exceeded the national average. The states
and their jobless rates for this March are: California, 8.5 percent; Texas,

7.6 percent; New York, 8 percent; Illinois, 7.8 percent, and Florida, 8.6

percent. The national average was 7.3 percent.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 30, 1992 Thursday
                              SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

BORDER PATROL ARRESTS 15 MEXICANS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


U.S. Border Patrol agents Wednesday morning arrested 15 illegal immigrants from
Mexico at various locations along Lantana and Lake Worth roads, Chief

Border Patrol Agent Neal Richards said. Men 18 to 41 years of age were charged
with illegally entering the countr

They were employed as construction workers, farm workers and

landscapers.

The men were to be returned Wednesday night to Mexico on a government-

chartered bus, Richards said. All waived a deportation hearing in Miami.

Their employers are being investigated to determine if they allowed the

men to work without immigration documents, Richards said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF..ALL EDITIONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 16, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

BUSH BLASTS GOVERNOR, LAWSUIT

BYLINE: BRIAN E. CROWLEY; Palm Beach Post Political Editor

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


Suing the federal government for money to help pay for the cost of illegal
immigrants is pure politics and a waste of time,'' Jeb Bush said Tuesday.

The GOP candidate for governor criticized Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles, who
said Monday that he was tired of Florida being forced to spend nearly $ 1
billion a year on illegal immigrants.

Chiles first proposed the lawsuit in December. He held a news conference in Dade
County on Monday to say that he was ready to move forward with the lawsuit
because the federal government has failed to act.

Bush, speaking to the Royal Palm Women's Club in Boynton Beach, said in response
to a question that it is unlikely that such a lawsuit would succeed. He said
Chiles should concentrate on bringing together the congressional delegations of
Florida, Texas, California, New York and other states affected by illegal
immigrants.

I think rather than grandstanding as the governor has done, we should be working
with other states to find a solution,'' Bush said.  Our combined congressional
delegations would give us the clout we need to get things done.''

Increasing the size of the Border Patrol, tougher enforcement of immigration
laws and stricter controls over the right to ask for asylum are the first steps
that should be taken, Bush said.

And we need a system that assures us that we will be reimbursed for the cost of
illegal immigration,'' Bush said.  What we don't need is for Gov. Chiles to try
and turn this into just another political opportunity.''

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              108 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 9, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

STATE GETS OK TO DEPORT JAILED ALIENS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The state has signed an agreement with the federal government to deport hundreds
of illegal immigrants taking up space in state prisons.

Hearings begin in June to commute the prison sentences of the inmates and
between 400 to 500 will be deported quickly, Gov. Lawton Chiles said Friday.
This will allow us to speed up the deportation of hundreds of non-violent
criminal aliens,'' Chiles said.

The cost of returning inmates to their native countries will be paid by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Chiles said noncitizen inmates in state prisons cost Florida taxpayers $ 60
million a year.

The savings from the INS agreement will be smaller because only nonviolent
offenders and those who agree to waive all rights to deportation appeals would
receive commutations of their sentences.

About 150 inmates who have final deportation orders issued will be the first to
appear at clemency hearings in June, said Assistant Attorney General Mark
Schlakman.

If the inmates return to the United States and are apprehended, they must serve
their remaining sentences.

Cuban inmates won't be considered for commuted sentences because the Cuban
government won't accept their return, Chiles said. About 700 of the 2,700
undocumented immigrant inmates in state prison are Cubans held since the Mariel
boatlift mass exodus of the early 1980s.

Most inmates to be deported are from Caribbean and Latin American countries,
prison officials said.

The agreement is the first between a state and the INS, a spokesman for the
federal agency said Friday.

Chiles said the INS agreement will not deter his lawsuit against the federal
government over immigration policy. Uncontrolled immigration is costing
Florida's state and local governments $ 884 million a year, Chiles claims.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              109 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 12, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

CHILES LIMITS TARGET TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 419 words


The biggest calculation in the state's lawsuit filed Monday against the federal
government for immigration-related costs may be political.

Gov. Lawton Chiles had been prepared to bring legal immigration into his claim
for damages. But the protest from heavily Hispanic South Florida apparently
contributed to his decision to limit his target to illegal immigration.

Hispanic state legislators visited Chiles two weeks ago to express concern that
bringing legal immigrants into the lawsuit would portray them as unwelcome
guests who survive on handouts.

We didn't want a backlash on all immigrants,'' said Rep. Alex Villalobos,
R-Miami, one of the lawmakers who advised Chiles that lumping both groups
together would be a mistake.

Chiles, who faces reelection in November, risked alienating the 950,000 Florida
residents who identified themselves in the 1990 Census as noncitizens. While
they don't vote, they have friends and family members who do.

Also troubling even the governor's own analysts is that estimating the cost of
immigration, legal or illegal, is largely guesswork. Besides that, the
governor's study ignores taxes paid to state and local governments by
immigrants.

The governor's office applied rote mathematics to figure costs, as outlined in
Chiles' Unfair Burden'' report of immigration impact. Findings in the study,
released by Chiles with great fanfare, is part of the federal lawsuit.

To arrive at the immigrants' share of the cost of law enforcement, courts,
health care and highways, the state simply divided total state spending by the
percentage of noncitizens counted in the U.S. Census. The number includes people
who have lived in Florida for generations and, presumably, pay as much taxes as
newcomers from Ohio.

By default, you come up with a lot of guesses,'' said Chuck Hungerford, one of
the analysts who help put together the report.  It's even more so at the local
level.''

One of the biggest costs to the state, $ 254 million to teach students limited
in English proficiency, carries an interesting footnote: about 60 percent of the
students are U.S. citizens.

The governor's office justifies limited-English programs as immigration-related
under the assumption that either the child's parents or grandparents were
immigrants. But students also could be from the commonwealth of Puerto Rico and
are U.S. citizens by birthright.

To arrive at a cost of illegal immigration, the state used an estimate of
345,000 undocumented immigrants in Florida.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              110 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 13, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 157 words


Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles reported receiving $ 332,885 in campaign
contributions during the Jan. 1 to March 31 reporting period. Chiles, who is
running for a second term, stopped accepting contributions Feb. 8, when the
Legislature began its 60-day session. He has raised $ 345,700 since starting his
reelection campaign in December. He has spent $ 93,186, leaving him $ 252,514.
According to his contribution report, Chiles is asking the state for $ 440,091
in matching money.

New York Gov. Mario Cuomo said it looks good'' that New York will join Florida
in a lawsuit seeking billions of dollars from the federal government for the
care of illegal immigrants. Florida on Monday filed a $ 1.5 billion lawsuit,
seeking federal financing for schooling, health care and prison beds for
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants.  Cuomo administration officials
have said illegal immigrants cost New York $ 970 million annually.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
IN BRIEF

TYPE: Brief....Digest

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              111 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      April 24, 1994 SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA'S BORDERS OPEN; FEDS' POCKETBOOK CLOSED

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 587 words


Can Florida win its lawsuit over immigration against the U.S. government?
Probably not. Suing didn't work for California, New York or Texas. Most legal
experts believe there's no way any state can win much relief from Washington to
offset the cost of illegal immigration.

By suing, though, Gov. Chiles and the two other plaintiffs - the Dade County
School Board and Jackson Memorial Hospital (which provides free coverage to all
illegal immigrants in Dade County) - are in a position to hammer at the issue.
Their suit also reinvigorated other states' officials to try again. Politicians
will likely get faster, surer results than judges, but lawsuits are one way to
get political action. Immigration has to rise to the top of the kettle of
national issues, much as crimes by kids did in Florida this spring. The lawsuits
add heat to the flame under the kettle.

The state's complaint tells politicians what to do; the lawsuit, in fact,
amounts pretty much to what Congress already said Congress would do. Florida
charges that while the federal government has exclusive jurisdiction over
immigration, the federal government has failed to control the border. That is
shown by the 345,000 illegal immigrants in Florida, the number being furnished
by the Immigration and Nationalization Service.

Congress also promised to pay some of the bills when a state is burdened by
federal border failures. Florida is asking the courts to make the feds do one or
the other: Control the border, or pay the cost of the failure to do so. The
state wants money that was promised but not paid, such as $ 20 million in
immigration emergency aid'' appropriated by Congress in 1986. Florida also wants
money the state wasn't promised but deserves - for example, to pay medical bills
of destitute new arrivals.

Those demands are reasonable. Under threat of the suit, the INS agreed to speed
up deportation of 400 to 500 people who slipped into the country and ended up in
Florida prisons. Last week, Congress voted to start paying the prison costs for
illegal immigrants who commit crimes - but not until 1999. The holdup isn't
responsibility - which Congress implicitly admits. It's money. But if Congress
can't afford it, what makes Congress think the state can?

Federal judges have little hesitation in ordering a state to obey the state's
own laws, but they are averse to making the feds obey laws relating to foreign
policy. For that reason, Republicans may accuse Gov. Chiles of playing politics.
But if he hadn't filed the suit, they would have been the first to accuse him of
failing to act. And immigrants' special interest groups don't help their cause
when they criticize as anti-immigrant'' any action aimed at people who abuse the
system. If the cheaters cost anything like $ 884 million - Florida's estimate
for 1993 - they were a burden as much to those who came in by the book as to
natives.

You can stand on any Florida beach, look up and down the coast, and see why
America has no door - golden or otherwise - the government can close. But if
control can't be perfect, there will always be a price to be paid in medical,
educational and social services for illegal immigrants. The dispute is about who
will pay it. Congress and the White House have avoided the dispute by saying
they have the borders under control - when they clearly don't - and letting
states pick up the bill for their failures. Florida says that's not fair.
Whether federal judges can be talked into intervening or not, Florida is right.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              112 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 14, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

RELEASE OF FRUSTRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 369 words


Florida's decision to release and send home more than 100 illegal immigrants who
are in the state's prison system was pure symbolism. There was some crime
symbolism, some immigration symbolism and, of course, a little political
symbolism. But it was probably good symbolism.

Gov. Chiles and the Florida Cabinet (the six other statewide elected officials)
voted last week to grant clemency to 113 inmates. That had to happen before the
illegals could be deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Deportation will take between 60 and 90 days. Unless their native country
arrests them on old charges, they will be free, since their crimes were
committed here. But Floridians will no longer be spending tax money on them, and
their absence will free those cells for home-grown criminals.

The governor had urged that such action be taken. It is not a coincidence that
the governor has also sued the federal government seeking payment for the cost
of illegal immigrants. Gov. Chiles is up for re-election, and you can't lose
with an issue that can make you look tough on crime and spending at the same
time. To show how hard it can be to argue with symbolism, consider that
Insurance Commissioner Tom Gallagher - a Republican who's running to succeed
Gov. Chiles - voted against clemency because native Floridians wouldn't have the
same chance at clemency. Huh?

Beyond the politics, however, is the thoroughly logical complaint about spending
state money on someone who is in the country illegally. Illegals who are working
contribute something through sales taxes they generate. Illegals who are in
prison contribute nothing. Illegals who are in prison, mostly for drug selling,
take up space that could be used to keep violent criminals away from the
Floridians whose taxes pay for the prisons.

Depending on whose estimate you believe, there may be 2,600-4,000 more illegal
immigrants in the state prison system. Purging the first few may represent, as
the Immigration and Naturalization Service says, an unprecedented state/federal
partnership. But the partnership would really be unprecedented if the feds would
actually try to keep out the illegals - and pay up when they fail to do so.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              113 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 14, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

RELEASE OF FRUSTRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 370 words


Florida's decision to release and send home more than 100 illegal immigrants who
are in the state's prison system was pure symbolism. There was some crime
symbolism, some immigration symbolism and, of course, a little political
symbolism. But it was probably good symbolism.

Gov. Chiles and the Florida Cabinet (the six other statewide elected officials)
voted last week to grant clemency to 113 inmates. That had to happen before the
illegals could be deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Deportation will take between 60 and 90 days. Unless their native country
arrests them on old charges, they will be free, since their crimes were
committed here. But Floridians will no longer be spending tax money on them, and
their absence will free those cells for home-grown criminals.

The governor had urged that such action be taken. It is not a coincidence that
the governor has also sued the federal government seeking payment for the cost
of illegal immigrants. Gov. Chiles is up for re-election, and you can't lose
with an issue that can make you look tough on crime and spending at the same
time. To show how hard it can be to argue with symbolism, consider that
Insurance Commissioner Tom Gallagher - a Republican who's running to succeed
Gov. Chiles - voted against clemency because native Floridians wouldn't have the
same chance at clemency. Huh?

Beyond the politics, however, is the thoroughly logical complaint about spending
state money on someone who is in the country illegally. Illegals who are working
contribute something through sales taxes they generate. Illegals who are in
prison contribute nothing. Illegals who are in prison, mostly for drug selling,
take up space that could be used to keep violent criminals away from the
Floridians whose taxes pay for the prisons.

Depending on whose estimate you believe, there may be 2,600-4,000 more illegal
immigrants in the state prison system. Purging the first few may represent, as
the Immigration and Naturalization Service says, an unprecedented state/federal
partnership. But the partnership would really be unprecedented if the feds would
actually try to keep out the illegals - and pay up when they fail to do so.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              114 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 13, 1994, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS NOT CAUSING OUR PROBLEMS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 149 words


The use of the ''illegal immigrant'' issue in mid-term federal and state
elections demonstrates that politicians are at a loss for solutions to the real
problems facing this country.

Stop and think, America: How can 500,000 people, at the most, cause an alleged
billion-dollar drain on the welfare system, prevent the middle class from
getting good, high-paying jobs or prevent our economy from booming? Blaming
disenfranchised groups is at best pandering to xenophobes and at worst, part of
a conspiracy to make us all carry identity cards.

Illegal immigration is wrong. Congress can get serious and extend the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act to anyone who rents to, employs, or
aids and abets a known illegal immigrant. Enforce existing laws, expand them if
necessary, but do not try to get elected by insulting our intelligence.

Jose R. Uzal

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              115 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 8, 1994, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS A DRAIN ON AMERICA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 166 words


The recent letter ''Immigrants not causing our problems'' tried to put one over
on your readers by stating that there are ''500,000 illegal immigrants at the
most'' in our country. But the recent Post editorial ''As Clinton took cover,
Chiles just took action'' quotes an Immigration and Naturalization Service
estimate of 345,000 illegals in Florida alone. And NBC News reported that there
are more than 4 million in the United States.

That giant sucking sound you hear is the siphoning of our tax dollars to provide
these immigrants social services, welfare, prisons, hospitalization, medicine
and infant care, as well as education at $ 4,000 to $ 5,000 a year per student.

There is a malignancy in the national body fostered by an irresolute immigration
policy and a foolhardy liberal agenda. Unless we stop this tide - or, would that
we could, reverse it - we will have a debased society and our children and
theirs will pay the consequences.

Wallace Waldon

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              116 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 23, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

NO REFUGE FOR THE FEDS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 385 words


The bills paid by Florida for the cost of illegal immigrants will never be as
precise and orderly as those on a credit-card bill. If illegals could be
counted, they could be deported. But there are ways to estimate. Florida chose a
ballpark figure of $ 1.5 billion last April, when the state sued to make the
federal government pay the costs. The ballpark just got bigger.

The Urban Institute, a non-partisan research organization, studied the seven
states with the largest numbers of illegals. Those states sued to get Washington
to police the national borders - which is a federal responsibility - or to
reimburse them for their costs of failures. The study shows that Florida has
even more to complain about. The study should make an impact because the Justice
Department and the Office of Management and Budget - the defendants in the
lawsuits - paid for it.

The Urban Institute gives Florida twice as many students as the state estimated
and says the state spends up to three times as much as it thought for medical
costs of patients who are here illegally. The state and institute match on the
number of illegal immigrants in prison, the easiest number to count. The
institute also estimates state taxes paid by illegal immigrants ($ 277 million).
That could be subtracted from what Washington owes Tallahassee, but the
institute's experts warn against trying to turn the figures into a net cost.
There are too many variables and footnotes in finding the costs.

If illegal immigrants didn't use emergency rooms, for instance, hospitals'
overhead costs would continue. The analysts didn't figure in the welfare costs
of citizens who lose their jobs to illegal workers, either. Compared to what it
would cost to produce figures that precise, it would be cheaper to simply give
the states what they want.

The feds won't. Since the president and Congress stopped counting on income from
voodoo economics and started using real numbers in 1993, they have to cut
something else if they want to take on new expenses. Although hardly anyone
gives them credit for it, they have stopped imagining money when they need it.
So they don't have it. But now that independent witnesses they hired testify
that Florida and the other states aren't imagining the costs, they are morally
bound to find it.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              117 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 25, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

NEXT STEP: END IMMIGRANTS' FREE RIDE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 137 words


Thank goodness we have reached an accord with Cuba about the influx of illegal
aliens to Florida. Now let's be truly democratic and fair in our immigration
policy pertaining to other nations. Let's agree to accept 20,000 Haitians and
20,000 from each South American nation. After all, the immigrants from Cuba are
only after a better life and not fleeing political persecution as are many
others.

Also, let each immigrant be sponsored by a U.S. citizen who will agree to
support him or her until that person is a U.S. citizen and able to be
self-supporting.

Above all, we must stop immediately the free handouts in money, food stamps,
Medicare, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Social Security, etc., that
are now afforded all illegal immigrants from Cuba. Enough is enough.

William Nolte

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              118 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 7, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

FLA. AMONG 7 STATES TO GET $ 42.9 MILLION IN IMMIGRATION AID

BYLINE: SCOTT SHEPARD; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With illegal immigration a hotly contested issue in politically strategic
states, the Clinton administration released $ 42.9 million in immigration
assistance to states Thursday.

The political significance of Attorney General Janet Reno's announcement was
underscored by the presence of key Democratic lawmakers.

Reno said the assistance, meant to reimburse seven states for the cost of
incarcerating illegal immigrants who commit crimes, is ''not meant to put to
rest'' the lawsuits brought by five of them against the federal government.

She said the money indicates the federal government is ready to ''work with the
states to assume our appropriate role'' in stemming the tide of illegal
immigration.

Sens. Bob Graham of Florida, Barbara Boxer of California and Frank Lautenberg of
New Jersey and Reps. Jack Brooks of Texas and Charles Schumer of New York all
noted that the Clinton administration was the first to help the states.

Graham said the assistance is ''an extremely important statement of
recognition'' of the federal government's responsibility to the states.

Brooks said the Clinton administration is ''turning promises into cash'' for the
states. By contrast, he said, the Reagan and Bush administrations ignored a 1986
federal law allowing for such assistance.

Boxer also used Reno's announcement to praise her California colleague,
Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who is in a tough reelection campaign, for
helping to obtain the assistance.

In no state is illegal immigration more controversial than in California, where
it not only is a defining issue in the Senate and gubernatorial races but also
is the subject of a ballot initiative to bar illegal immigrants from using
government-supported hospitals or schools. California also is crucial to
President Clinton's reelection bid in 1996.

The recently enacted comprehensive crime bill provides for $ 1.8 billion in
immigration aid to the states over six years. About $ 130 million of that was
appropriated for fiscal 1995, and Thursday's ''down payment'' represents about a
third of the 1995 total. The rest will be released next year.

California would get $ 33,460,700, followed by $ 4,085,900 for New York, $
2,120,300 for Texas, $ 1,073,800 for Florida, $ 991,900 for Arizona, $ 600,600
for New Jersey and $ 564,200 for Illinois.

Together, the seven states account for more than 85 percent of the illegal
immigrants in the United States. All of them except New York and Illinois are
suing the government to recoup the costs of jailing and providing services to
immigrants.

The amounts granted Thursday are a fraction of the costs states have incurred as
a result of illegal immigration. But as Graham responded when asked about
Florida's share, ''$ 1 million will be $ 1 million that we wouldn't otherwise
have had.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              119 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 24, 1994, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

TRADING IN IMMIGRATION RHETORIC

BYLINE: TOM BLACKBURN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 615 words


Florida polls show Democrats are worried about schools and Republicans about
crime. U.S. Rep. Harry Johnston, a Democrat, says immigration swamps both
subjects as a concern in his Palm Beach-Broward district.

Mr. Johnston, who has been campaigning, says, ''A year ago the principal topic
was health care. Right now, the issue, wherever you go, is immigration.''

Immigration is easy for those who call in to demand that it be stopped. But it's
not just one hard issue for thoughtful folks. It's a series of hard issues.

California may attack it with the blunderbuss of a ballot initiative Nov. 8.
Proposition 187 would cut off illegal immigrants from public schools, social
services and non-emergency health care.

Barring illegals from school lost before in the Supreme Court. Illegals aren't
entitled to most social services anyway. And you don't want to be around to
catch communicable diseases spread by illegals denied non-emergency care. Still,
Gov. Pete Wilson's sickly reelection campaign recovered when he embraced Prop
187.

With a neatly-staged tantrum to wake up the Clinton administration to the Cuban
boatlift, Gov. Chiles neatly pushed immigration nastiness out of the campaign
here. But damming up would-be immigrants at Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba won't
hold back the waves while a tide moves populations around the world.

We call ourselves a nation of immigrants. But, between Americans who are in and
want to slam the door behind them and those who want to bring with them
everything they emigrated to get away from, discussions of immigration can turn
nasty fast.

Most people agree that we shouldn't have illegal immigration. That's where
agreement ends.

Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay noted last week, at a forum sponsored by the Ft.
Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel, that more people enforce Florida's parking laws than
enforce U.S. immigration laws in Florida. Immigration and Naturalization Service
District Director Walter Cadman responded that fewer than 40 U.S. Border Patrol
officers work in Florida. Your lower taxes at work.

Here are three facts about legal immigration:

The 10 million people who came in legally during the 1980s made up the biggest
one-decade influx in U.S. history.

Despite that, foreign-born people are 8.5 percent of the population now. At
immigration's 1900-1920 peak, they were 14.5 percent of us.

Of course, we didn't have the social services in 1920 we have now. But, except
for refugees (a special case), legal immigrants of working age are less likely
to be on welfare than their native-born counterparts.

Cold facts rarely settle arguments, but they can cool rhetoric. Cooling it is
important because, as Mr. MacKay also said, foreign trade is, by some measures,
as big in Florida's economy as tourism, and we are ideally located to be the
crossroads of trade in the Western Hemisphere.

Because the hemisphere tilts from northwest to southeast, Palm Beach is west of
all South American capitals except Quito, Ecuador. When a Chilean wants to do
business with a Brazilian, it's often easier for both to meet in Miami. As
transportation and communications improve on the continent, that may change. But
Florida contractors are well-placed to build the improvements.

We need the national government to control its borders, and we need to be
reimbursed for the heavy added costs of absorbing immigrants. But we can't
afford to substitute anti-immigrant name-calling for calm decision. Using
immigration to vent feelings would be self-defeating.

''We're not going to be the center of the hemisphere if we demagogue
immigration,'' Mr. MacKay warned.

Tom Blackburn is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              120 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 29, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE: SHOOTING VICTIM WAS SMUGGLER, DEALER

BYLINE: JOE BROGAN

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 256 words


The man shot to death in his car Sunday night in suburban Lake Worth was an
undocumented immigrant and a convicted smuggler and drug dealer who had been
deported to his native Mexico three times, the U.S. Border Patrol reported
Monday.

Carlos Davila-Morado, 28, of 4684 S. Coconut Road, was driving his teal blue
Oldsmobile convertible on Melaleuca Lane when shots rang out from another
vehicle and his car crashed into woods about 100 yards west of Congress Avenue.

An arrest warrant for first-degree murder has been issued for the victim's
cousin, Oscar Rosco Morado, 30, no address available, said Palm Beach County
sheriff's Sgt. Donna Wright.

The victim was one of the biggest crack dealers in Lake Worth, Wright said, and
had recently been at odds with his cousin.

Davila-Morado never carried guns because he knew it could result in prison time,
Wright said.

''He's one of many illegal aliens, and the numbers are increasing, who get
involved in crack cocaine,'' said Neal Richards, agent in charge of the Border
Patrol in Riviera Beach.

The federal government is continuing to prosecute such immigrants as aggravated
felons. In the most recent case, a man got seven years, Richards said.

Davila-Morado's record dates back to 1986, when he was convicted of immigrant
smuggling and got six months in prison and five years' probation.

He was deported in 1990 for violating probation and again in 1991 and 1993,
according to Border Patrol records, but he kept returning to Palm Beach County,
officials said.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Carlos Davila-Morado (mug).

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              121 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 6, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

MINOR CRIMES MAY SEND ILLEGAL ARRIVALS HOME

BYLINE: JOE BROGAN

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 501 words


 Undocumented immigrants who cost Palm Beach, Broward, Dade and Monroe counties
hundreds of thousands of dollars a year to house in county jails have been
targeted for deportation.
   A three-month pilot program begun last week involving federal, state and
local agencies will grant illegal immigrants clemency for minor state crimes and
clear them for deportation proceedings.
 Foreign criminals who commit dangerous felonies, however, won't be affected by
the program, according to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Miami.
   ''It doesn't apply to serious offenders,'' said Willie Fernandez, a spokesman
for the U.S. Attorney's Office. ''If you're caught with 3 kilos of cocaine,
you're going to do your prison time.''
   Palm Beach County State Attorney Barry Krischer said last week the strategy
worked well last year when the Border Patrol temporarily assigned an agent to
work part-time with his office in identifying criminal immigrants.
   ''Our primary concern was the physical impact on the jail population and the
ultimate cost to the taxpayers,'' said State Attorney's Office spokesman Mike
Edmondson.
   Although that effort was much smaller than the multi-agency pilot program
begun last week, it was a success, officials said.
   Border Patrol Agent Neal Richards wrote Krischer in February, ''Not only have
we successfully processed and removed 173 criminals, but have shown that various
law enforcement agencies at differing levels can operate cohesively and
successfully.''
   That joint program ended in February because of increasing demands on Border
Patrol agents for other duties, Richards said.
   Deportation proceedings against criminal immigrants in state custody have
been a hit-ormiss proposition in the past, said Mike Sheehy, assistant chief of
the Border Patrol's Miami Section, who is coordinating the federal effort.
   Many police officers dealing with immigrant suspects are unaware of
complicated immigration laws, he said.
   So Border Patrol teams have been assigned to jails in Palm Beach, Broward and
Dade counties, with Monroe County being handled out of the Miami office, Sheehy
said.
   Undocumented immigrants who aredeported under the program and return to the
United States face federal prison terms of two to seven years, depending on
their criminal records, he said.
   Sheriff's Corrections Lt. Christopher Kneisley said it costs taxpayers $ 74 a
day to house an inmate at the jail. But inmates also rack up costs in other
areas, he said.
   ''You can save money not only on detention, but with prosecutors and judges
if you put the burden on the immigration system,'' Kneisley said.


AT A GLANCE
From the Criminal Alien Program at the Palm Beach County Jail, Feb. 17-May 18,
1993:
TOTAL UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS INTERVIEWED: 112
DEPORTABLE BECAUSE OF PRIOR CONVICTIONS: 30
DEPORTABLE FOR ENTRY WITHOUT INSPECTION: 25
DEPORTABLE IF CONVICTED AS CHARGED: 28
TOTAL DEPORTABLE: 83

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL. Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              122 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 10, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

PUT MORATORIUM ON ALL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 103 words


The United States must tighten its ''cheesecloth'' borders or else we are doomed
to Third World status. We are being inundated with illegal aliens from Mexico,
Cuba, Haiti, etc., who come into this country and overwhelm our social services
and criminal justice system.

There is a solution that will avoid the cry of racial preferential treatment,
and this is a temporary moratorium of all immigration into the U.S. This will
allow us to get our house in order and reevaluate our priorities.

It was immigration that made this country, and now it is immigration that will
destroy it.

Jack Forrest

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              123 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

              January 10, 1995, Tuesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

LAWMAKERS SURE TO TRY BOOTING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS THIS YEAR

BYLINE: GLENN HENDERSON

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 605 words


When last year's legislature wanted a big issue to tackle, juvenile delinquents
became the targets. This year, it appears Florida's undocumented immigrants
could be the bull's-eye of the legislative dartboard.

And leading the assault, at least in the House, could be Ken Pruitt, the Port
St. Lucie Republican with a knack of spotting and exploiting the hottest issues
on the conservative agenda.

Pruitt says he hopes to have a bill drafted by the end of this month that would
be patterned after California's Proposition 187, cutting off undocumented
immigrants from public schools, social services and non-emergency health care.

Legislative attempts to find ways to offset the costs of illegal immigration
became a sure bet last month after a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought
by Gov. Lawton Chiles against the federal government. Chiles sought to recover $
1.5 billion spent on the state's estimated 345,000 undocumented immigrants. But
the judge ruled the economic burden of immigrants should be borne in the
political, not legal, arena.

So here come legislators with their bills in hand.

Political analysts expect a handful of bills this session, though none had been
filed as of Monday.

''I'm not someone who is hardened against illegal aliens coming to our
country,'' Pruitt said, ''but there's only so many dollars to go around.''

''The voters told us in November to spend what you have wisely. . . . You can't
take care of everybody.''

But Pruitt concedes the chances of success are slim.

''It's a longshot in the legislature,'' he said. ''A lot of members are
sensitive to illegals, and I understand the politics of it all.''

He's right about that. Normally, one might expect support for such a bill to
come from South Florida, where most of the undocumented immigrants reside. But
many legislators in powerful Dade and Broward counties are Hispanics who are not
likely to support such efforts.

And other South Florida legislators may be reluctant to support legislation
guaranteed to antagonize the large number of their constituents who immigrated
here.

Even if legislation fails, Pruitt hopes to get the attention of the federal
government, which he said has ''thumbed its nose at the states'' by refusing to
reimburse the costs of its immigration policy.

Critics assail such efforts as racist. It's no coincidence, they say, that those
being targeted generally have dark skin. But proponents call it a matter of
money and common sense.

''We're talking about people who broke the law to get into this country, are we
not?'' said Fort Pierce Mayor William Dannahower, whose city is home to many
undocumented immigrants. ''I think that says it all.''

The state will more than likely see a drive for a constitutional amendment
similar to California's, which is being restrained by a judge who said the
proposition raises serious constitutional questions.

Florida can learn from California's mistakes, Pruitt said. And only 429,000
signatures are needed for such a proposition to make the ballot.

''I honestly think it's a pushover,'' Pruitt said.

Regrettably, I think he's right.

While I can understand the need to confront the high cost of dealing with
illegal immigration, I'm not convinced this is the way to do it.

There's something blatantly un-American about kicking kids out of school and
pulling sick people out of hospitals, no matter where they came from.

The place to tackle the problem is at the border, where the immigrants are
supposed to be prevented from getting into the country in the first place.

And that's a job for the federal government.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              124 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

STATES WOULD SHARE BOOST FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: TIM LOPES

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Texas, Arizona and Florida are among the states targeted by President Clinton's
fiscal 1996 budget to share an increase of $ 370 million to ease the fiscal
burden of illegal immigrants.

Responding to growing concern, the budget released Monday proposes more than $ 1
billion in new spending on illegal immigration, bringing the total cost to $ 3.6
billion.

The increase in direct payments to hard-hit states includes $ 150 million for
emergency medical services for illegal immigrants, $ 50 million to offset the
cost of educating immigrant students and $ 170 million to help states deal with
immigrants who commit crimes in their states. The increases raise the total
reimbursements to $ 563 million.

The refunds will be divided among the hardest-hit states - which also include
California, New Jersey, New York and Illinois - and are part of what Attorney
General Janet Reno called the government's ''responsibility'' for dealing with
illegal immigration.

If approved by Congress, Clinton's budget also would boost the number of Border
Patrol agents and set aside money for pilot programs that would verify whether
job applicants are legal and put systems at five major airports to monitor
immigrants' status.

''This budget addresses the critical challenge of securing our nation's borders
against illegal immigration,'' Reno said.

To offset about 30 percent of the increases in spending, Clinton's budget calls
for a border-crossing fee.

Pedestrians would be asked to pay $ 1.50 and drivers of vehicles would be
charged $ 3. The plan calls for discount passes and unlimited crossings for
commuters.

Major proposals include:

Increasing the number of Border Patrol agents, inspectors and support staff
members by 1,500.

Tripling the number of illegal immigrants deported by increasing the capacity of
INS detention centers.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              125 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 11, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FOLEY SEEKS TO BAR AUTOMATIC CITIZENSHIP TO KIDS OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


 Children born to undocumented immigrants in the United States should not be
eligible for automatic citizenship, says U.S. Rep. Mark Foley.
   The West Palm Beach Republican said he will propose a constitutional
amendment that would require at least one parent of a child to be in the country
legally before the child could be granted citizenship by birthright.
 ''It is my hope that this amendment will help stem the tide of illegal
immigrants coming to this country to have children,'' Foley said in a letter to
his House colleagues seeking co-sponsors.
   The proposal was attacked as ''mean spirited'' by a spokeswoman for the
American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington, D.C.
   ''It's not a rational and humane way to deal with immigration,'' said the
spokeswoman, Judy Marden.
   Other lawmakers have proposed the idea of revoking automatic citizenship
rights, Marden said, but the idea has never gotten far in Congress.
   A constitutional amendment requires a two-thirds majority in both houses of
Congress and must be ratified by three-fourths, or 38, state legislatures.
   The 14th Amendment to the Constitution says all people born or naturalized in
the United States are citizens of the United States. Foley's proposed amendment
would change the wording to ''all persons born to a parent legally residing in
the United States'' are citizens.
   Foley, a freshman, spoke often of the need to control illegal immigration
during his political campaign last fall. On Friday he won House passage of an
amendment to the crime bill to speed the deportation of non-violent undocumented
immigrants in state and federal prisons.
   Foley aide Kirk Fordham called the constitutional amendment a long-range goal
and said it wasn't likely to be taken up during the current session of Congress.
Fordham said Foley intends to introduce the proposed amendment within the next
week.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              126 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 27, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT CRIMINALS SENT HOME

BYLINE: SCOTT HIAASEN

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 876 words


Isidro Mojica-Benitez has been in and out of jail more than a dozen times since
1982. Officials say over the years he routinely smuggled Mexican immigrants into
Arizona, and he was charged with selling cocaine in Palm Beach County three
times.

Twice he was deported to his native Mexico. Twice he sneaked back into the
United States.

Officials believe the streets of South Florida are home to thousands like
Mojica, illegal immigrants and immigrants with green cards who are charged with
crimes and clog our jails.

In December, the U.S. Border Patrol began a three-month pilot program that
identifies ''deportable'' foreigners in jails from Palm Beach County to Monroe
County and then sends them home - saving taxpayers money, opening up jail space
and saving the courts valuable time.

''We're finding at least as many illegals coming through the county jails as we
had expected,'' said Kendall Coffey, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of
Florida.

Since the deportation program began, the Border Patrol has identified more than
1,500 immigrants in

South Florida jails - most of them in Dade and Broward counties - who can be
deported because of their crimes.

Authorities are targeting nonviolent criminals such as car thieves and burglars
who migrate through the county jail system and rarely go to state prison, Coffey
said.

Last year Gov. Lawton Chiles began a program granting clemency to nonviolent
prison inmates in return for their departure to their native countries.

Local agents have found 54 immigrants in the Palm Beach County Jail facing
charges that could have them sent back home, said agent Aaron Brewer of the
Border Patrol. They also found 88 illegal immigrants.

The plan is simple:

Border Patrol agents collect the names of immigrants charged with crimes from
the local state attorneys' offices. The agents then check the criminal histories
and immigration status of those on the list.

Illegal immigrants - those who are in the country without the proper visas and
documents - are instantly deportable, regardless of the charges against them.

The rules are more complicated for foreigners who are lawful residents. They can
be sent back to their homelands if convicted of an aggravated felony - such as a
firearms charge, or drug possession with intent to sell - or two willful
felonies, such as grand theft or burglary.

While a suspect awaits trial in the county jail, the prosecutor offers a deal:
Plead guilty and go straight back home without any jail time.

The suspect's alternative is to turn down the deal and take his chances before a
jury. If acquitted, the immigrant can stay in the country. But if convicted, he
will be sent to jail, and when he gets out, he could be deported anyway.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service can detain a deportable immigrant in
jail, holding him for months beyond his criminal sentence during the deportation
process, which can take more than a year, Coffey said.

Most illegal immigrants take the deal, agents say, while many legal residents
with established roots would rather face jail than go back to their native
countries.

''We don't push anything,'' said Rob Shephard, a prosecutor with the Palm Beach
County State Attorney's Office. ''Some of them have a status that would allow
them to stay.''

Officials say they have seen immigrants from nearly 40 countries, though most
are from the Caribbean and Central and South America.

''I was talking to the (prosecutor) in Monroe County who said they were having
problems with Poles and Russians,'' Shephard said.

The four-county program mimics one enacted in Palm Beach County in 1993.

Agents in the local U.S. Border Patrol office had deported 173 illegal
immigrants or criminals until February 1994, when the six-man team had to abort
its pet project to keep up with the almost-daily landings of Haitian and Cuban
refugees on the beaches of Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast, said
agent-in-charge Neal Richards.

This time, agents hope their operation becomes standard procedure.

Federal officials will review the program's results in the coming months. Coffey
said more manpower and money would be needed to make the project work full-time,
and the federal government would have to find a way to pay for jailing thousands
of immigrants while they appeal their deportation or seek political asylum.

Coffey has also taken a hard line against deported immigrants who return to the
United States - people like Isidro Mojica-Benitez. In August, Mojica was found
guilty of re-entering the country after being deported - a federal crime with
harsher penalties. The Mexican smuggler was sentenced to six years in federal
prison.

IN JAIL

Since December, agents with the U.S. Border Patrol, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement have found
54 illegal immigrants and foreign residents in the Palm Beach County Jail who
could be deported because of the charges against them. They include:

18 IMMIGRANTS facing drug charges.

8 IMMIGRANTS facing weapons charges.

17 IMMIGRANTS facing other deportable charges.

The agents also have found 58 illegal immigrants who have signed forms agreeing
to leave the United States.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              127 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 1, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

BEFORE DENYING HEALTH CARE TO IMMIGRANTS, WEIGH THE COST

BYLINE: BEN GRABER

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A, LOCAL FORUM

LENGTH: 628 words


It is with great interest that I read newspaper articles and hear debates about
undocumented illegal aliens and the controversy regarding the services they
receive in our nation.

The undocumented illegal alien has essentially become the focus of people's
anxiety and discontent. Crime is running rampant; the economy is growing slowly;
the dysfunctional family has become the norm; AIDS is reaching epidemic
proportions; and the general mood of the populace is to express their
frustration through negative action. Can we blame all of our woes on
undocumented illegal aliens? Some people think we can.

Frustration makes us seek scapegoats

Historically, when life becomes difficult and stressful, people tend to focus
blame on someone. It makes them feel better, it gives them a purpose and it
gives them what they feel is an easy solution to all of their problems. Over the
years, shrewd politicians have taken advantage of these unfortunate
circumstances in society to attain power.

Floridians seem to be approaching the level of frustration that would make
scapegoating a natural path to take. As we scan the landscape looking for
candidates, we find that it is difficult to rally the majority of citizens to
unite against the usual minority groups historically selected for scapegoating.
One particular group has been found, however, that has limited appeal to our
citizenry and evokes minimal guilt: the illegal undocumented alien.

Is there a reason to consider a Proposition 187 (the amendment passed in
California to severely limit state services to illegal immigrants) in Florida?

It starts with a popular idea- not paying for services such as health care and
education. Many feel that if this is done, perhaps illegal aliens will leave the
country and go back where they came from.

Obviously, this is not going to occur. We have about 10 million undocumented
illegal aliens who have been living in the country for many years. Most have
jobs and participate in areas of commerce that many Americans would find
undesirable. By selecting them for loss of services, we isolate the group
socially and place a stigma upon it.

From a pragmatic point of view, denying health care to illegal aliens is
unenforceable under the present structure of our law. It is also unwise. We
would see large groups of illegal aliens having children and suffering the
consequences of no prenatal care. The children would not be immunized,
increasing society's risk of epidemics of tuberculosis, measles, polio and other
communicable diseases that are now considered rare in this country. There is no
logic to that. It makes more sense to ensure that this population remains
healthy rather than have it become a source of infection and disease.

Denying education would worsen problem

Does it make sense not to educate these people and have them remain in migrant
camps, separated from society so perhaps as their plight becomes worse, they may
then commit crime, rather than work to survive? Also, how do you distinguish an
undocumented illegal alien from a documented legal alien or, for that matter, an
American citizen who happens to be of a similar minority? It would not be
possible, and many of our citizens may well be discriminated against and lose
their rights under the guise of perhaps identifying an illegal undocumented
alien.

These are issues that we must consider before following the lead of California,
allowing mob mentality to rule and prejudice and scapegoatism to prevail by
passing a proposition that makes us feel good for the moment but will come back
to haunt us.

Ben Graber, a Democrat from Coral Springs, represents District 96 in the Florida
House of Representatives. He wrote this article for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Ben Graber (mug)

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              128 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

GO AFTER ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' EMPLOYERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 167 words


U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, plans to introduce legislation to alter
the definition in the U.S. Constitution of who is an American. It is appalling
that we would want to change a document that has served us well for more than
200 years to deter a few pregnant women from coming to the U.S. If we must
change the U.S. Constitution, however, then I suggest that we will be better
served not by changing the definition of who gets to be an American by birth
but, rather, by adding the hiring of illegal immigrants to the list of acts that
will cause one to lose citizenship.

I trust Rep. Foley will reconsider his position and explore more effective ways
to control and eventually eliminate illegal immigration. But should he proceed
to attempt to change the Constitution, we should be comforted by the fact that
the Founding Fathers anticipated and feared a tyranny of the majority and made
it extremely difficult to succeed in such an enterprise.

Jose R. Uzal

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              129 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 9, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

PRUITT TO CHANGE IMMIGRANT BILL

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Rep. Ken Pruitt today plans to amend his bill denying public assistance to
undocumented immigrants to address the objections of Dade County legislators.

Instead of restricting access to all public services and benefits, the bill's
scope will be limited to welfare, food stamps and Medicaid.

''That will calm a lot of fears,'' Pruitt, R-Port St. Lucie, said during a
meeting in his office with a half dozen Cuban-American legislators.

The Dade legislators had voiced concerns that the bill was too broad and would
be the first step toward limiting benefits to legal immigrants.

Rep. Luis Morse, R-Miami, said he liked Pruitt's plan to add another amendment
to create a state study commission on undocumented immigrants.

''All I'm looking for is to get a breather from Proposition 187,'' said Morse,
referring to California's controversial referendum on cutting all public
services to illegal immigrants.

Morse said the study commission could deter a Proposition 187 movement in
Florida until next year. By then, he said, Congress may have adopted its own
restrictions or federal appeals courts may have ruled Proposition 187
unconstitutional.

The 13-member study commission would recommend a state strategy to deal with the
costs of illegal immigration, Pruitt said.

The Senate sponsor of Pruitt's bill, Sen. Ginny Browne-Waite, R-Spring Hill,
said the bill is not targeting Hispanics. She said many Canadians are illegally
in Florida and collecting state benefits.

Rep. Alex Villalobos, R-Miami, said after the meeting that Pruitt's bill is
''headed in the right direction'' because it no longer affects public education
or emergency health care.

Pruitt said he needed to make the changes in the bill because of rumors it was
as severe as California's restrictions.

He also said he wants to see the Florida referendum campaign stopped.

''If we don't do anything about it, you could liken it to a civil war in the
state of Florida,'' Pruitt said.

Pruitt's bill will be heard today before a House Aging and Human Services
subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              130 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 10, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

PETITION FEARS DRIVE IMMIGRANT REVIEW

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


A push by state officials to address illegal immigration is being driven by
fears of a 1996 voter referendum on the issue.

Rep. Ken Pruitt said the real target of his bill to review public assistance to
undocumented immigrants is Orlando political consultant Doug Guetzloe.

''We want to neutralize this guy Guetzloe,'' said Pruitt, R-Port St. Lucie.
Guetzloe will open a campaign this month to collect 429,428 signatures for a
California-style Proposition 187 referendum in November 1996.

Guetzloe responded Thursday that Pruitt suffers from ''elected official
mentality.''

''We are not stopping one heartbeat for the legislature to appoint yet another
study commission,'' said Guetzloe, who is forming a referendum-organizing
committee called Save Our State.

Meanwhile, Gov. Lawton Chiles is expanding his search for solutions. For the
first time, Chiles is reviewing ways to curtail the costs of illegal immigration
beyond courts and prisons.

Chiles' position has been to keep public assistance flowing while demanding that
the federal government reimburse the estimated $ 844 million a year in state and
local spending on undocumented immigrants.

ON FEDERAL OFFICIALS' BACKS

The governor's office is ''looking at ways to restrict access to certain
services,'' Mark Schlakman, Chiles' legal adviser on immigration matters,
disclosed during a legislative workshop this week.

The governor strongly opposes a referendum and has spoken against denying health
care or education to any Florida resident.

Instead, Chiles is hounding federal officials to take charge of undocumented
immigrants in state prisons. His latest push is to get federal prisons to take
the 638 state inmates who entered Florida during the Mariel exodus in 1980.

Debbie Kilmer, the governor's lobbyist in Washington, said Chiles doesn't want
to deny services to Florida's undocumented immigrants. ''If we do that, the
governor feels you are taking the federal government off the hook.''

A recent study of public assistance benefits shows a significant burden from
refugees who enter the country illegally but gain temporary permission to stay -
and draw benefits - while their political asylum claims take years to be heard.

$ 25 MILLION OR MORE A YEAR

These non-citizens in Florida make up 5 percent of welfare cases, 10 percent of
food stamp recipients and 15 percent of Medicaid clients, says the Department of
Health and Rehabilitative Services. The cost to Florida to provide those
benefits to non-citizens is more than $ 25 million a year.

Because of political concerns, Pruitt's bill, like the governor's unsuccessful
lawsuit against the federal government last year, addresses only the costs of
undocumented immigrants.

Pruitt's bill got off to a shaky start as the session opened this week. At
first, it addressed all public services and benefits, which made it as severe as
Guetzloe's proposed referendum.

By week's end, the bill had been watered down to simply create a study group
called the Florida Commission on Public Assistance and Immigration.

No action would be taken on denying benefits to illegal immigrants until after
the commission reports its findings Jan. 31.

One effect of the change is that the bill now appears to have the Dade County
delegation's support.

''It has a much greater chance for passage,'' said Carlos Lacasa, R-Miami. He
said a selling point is that it can be a ''countermeasure'' against a referendum
campaign.

BENEFITS FOR NON-CITIZENS*

Food Stamps

Palm Beach County.........5,136

Florida.................144,900

Medicaid

Palm Beach County.........3,493

Florida..................71,933

Welfare

Palm Beach County.........1,435

Florida..................33,678

* Non-citizens include legal permanent residents of the United States.

(ran Final edition)

BENEFITS FOR NON-CITIZENS*

Food Stamps

Treasure Coast**.........1,162

Florida................144,900

Medicaid

Treasure Coast.............928

Florida.................71,933

Welfare

Treasure Coast.............358

Florida.................33,678

* Non-citizens include legal permanent residents of the United States.

** Includes Martin, St. Lucie, Okeechobee and Indian River counties.

(ran only in MSL editions)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE NEWS / Ran all editions. / info. boxes at end of text

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              131 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 14, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS ALREADY COST PLENTY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 129 words


Under the headline ''Before denying health care to immigrants, weigh the cost,''
Rep. Ben Graber, D-Coral Springs, claims that many people are using illegal
immigrants as scapegoats for

the problems facing the nation. I consider his article to be typical liberal
claptrap.

Denying these aliens a host of services, he says, would be detrimental to
society. So what is his solution? To do nothing?

No, we don't blame all our troubles on ''undocumented illegal aliens.'' We're
just sick of being patsies for the problems they do create. And by the way, what
has Rep. Graber done as a legislator to stem the inexorable tide of these aliens
who, by some strange alchemy, inherit all kinds of rights under our supine
system of government?

Jim Allan

Palm Springs

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Ben Graber (mug)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              132 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 16, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

COST OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The unfunded mandates bill passed by the Senate includes a provision authored by
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., declaring any reduction in federal money to states for
the education, health care and incarceration of illegal immigrants would be
considered an unfunded mandate prohibited by law. The chart shows the number and
estimated cost of illegal immigrants in local prisons.

Glades Correctional Institution 284 $ 4.1 million

Martin Correctional Institution 118 $ 1.7 million

Glades Work Camp 32 $ 469,000

Pembroke Pines CI 126 $ 1.8 million

Hendry Correctional Institution 238 $ 3.5 million

SOURCE: Sen. Bob Graham's office

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              133 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 26, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

PROP 187 IN FLORIDA? A NEEDLESS SIDESHOW

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 500 words


Florida has enough trouble enforcing the usual laws. The state doesn't need to
find new kinds of crimes to police. Making new laws against illegal immigrants
may give Californians a rush, but Floridians can't afford the pleasure.

That's one conclusion to be expected if we examine illegal immigration in
Florida. Another conclusion is that immigration is the federal government's
responsibility and problem - and Congress should get on with it.

A study commission may be the best result of efforts by lawmakers to win
applause for a version of California's Proposition 187. That initiative is tied
up in eight lawsuits and not working, but the perception that California got
tough on illegal immigrants inspired copycats. If Prop 187 ever works, it will
bar children of illegal aliens from schools and illegals from welfare and
non-emergency health services. Most of that is already law. Illegal immigrants
are ineligible for nearly all welfare programs and for Medicaid except for
emergencies, including childbirth.

Prop 187 is redundant. But it requires teachers, nurses, doctors and social
workers to probe and snitch and makes them crooks if they don't. That will
interfere with their professional work of teaching and healing. Besides, there
are law enforcement agencies to catch alien law-breakers. California must think
illegals - who notoriously avoid contact with any kind of authority - can be
caught when they line up for the state's munificent welfare.

The other novelty in Prop 187 is the ban on schooling for children whose parents
are illegal. The Urban Institute, a nonpartisan Washington think tank, put
Florida's cost of schooling those children at $ 424 million a year, but the
Supreme Court ruled in 1982 that states can't deny education to the children,
who have committed no crime.

A moment's thought suggests that making unlettered school-age children into
truants is a risky way to discourage immigration or to save money. When state
Rep. Ken Pruitt, R-Port St. Lucie, and Sen. Ginny Brown-Waite, R-Spring Hill,
took the time to think, they agreed to switch their version of Prop 187 (HB
245/SB 262) into a plan for the study commission. The promise of a serious study
of the subject may discourage lawmakers and frothy citizens from doing something
truly thoughtless.

Too often, there is no thought. Rep. Stan Bainter, R-Eustis, offered a law to
deport convicts who don't have green cards. Told deportation is happening
already, Rep. Bainter said it's not happening fast enough. Two experts on the
California referendum came to advise Floridians calling themselves Save Our
State on how to repeat California's Prop 187 fiasco.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which lobbies for tighter
restrictions, put a price tag on enforcing the federal laws on the books: $ 650
million more each year for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. If Rep.
Bainter or SOS want to help, they'll find a way to get the money, not make
needless laws.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              134 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 29, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

TOP 2 IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS LEAVING

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


 The area's top two immigration officials are retiring from their posts at the
Port of Palm Beach.
   Neal Richards, chief Border Patrol agent, and James Breslin, supervisor of
immigration inspections, are taking advantage of an early retirement program
offered by the federal government. They will leave their offices by the end of
the week.
 No successors have been named.
   Richards said the number of Border Patrol agents in his office could drop to
two by this summer because of transfers and resignations. The office now has six
agents responsible for apprehending and deporting undocumented immigrants from
Fort Pierce to Boca Raton and west to Okeechobee.
   Richards, 56, has been outspoken about the lack of control of illegal
immigration and said he's happy federal and state officials are beginning to
take notice of the costs of uncontrolled immigration.
   ''All of the things I believe in and fought for are starting to become a
reality,'' said Richards, who joined the Border Patrol in 1975 after 20 years in
the Marine Corps. ''There is more interest among taxpayers who are starting to
find out the cost of permitting illegal aliens to come here and take advantage
of our social services.''
   The agent said he's pleased the flow of Haitian refugees from Bahamian
islands was curtailed late last year by the aggressive prosecution of smugglers
who transported them to Florida beaches.
   Breslin, 56, has spent 31 years in government service, first as a Border
Patrol agent in Texas, then as a supervisor with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. He said he and Richards have had a friendly and
cooperative relationship between their offices.
   Both agencies are under the Justice Department.
   Breslin said the number of ships coming into the port was about 22 a month
when he began working in the county in 1978. Now, more than 100 ships visit the
port monthly, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              135 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 3, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

BOAT LEAVES 24 IMMIGRANTS IN BOYNTON

BYLINE: MAGGIE SAKAKI TUCKER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


Police found 24 illegal immigrants from Haiti, Nigeria and Guyana wandering
downtown early Tuesday.

At 3:45 a.m., officer Frank O'Connor questioned two Haitian men on Federal
Highway who told him they had just gotten off a boat. After the men said they
had come with a group from the Bahamas, officers picked up the others in twos
and threes on Federal Highway and on side streets.

The men, women and children traveled from Nassau on a 25-foot boat and probably
were dropped at a private dock on the Intracoastal Waterway after about a
12-hour trip, said Sgt. Chip Kuss, a police spokesman.

Fifteen of the illegal immigrants are Haitian, eight are Guyanese and one is
Nigerian.

Some of Tuesday's boaters, who are being held at the Krome Detention Center near
Miami, had been waiting in the Bahamas for months, said agent Kevin Douglas of
the Border Patrol.

Douglas said it was the most diverse group he has known to land on the state's
shores. ''Maybe we'll be seeing more mixed bags in the future,'' he said.

Each of the immigrants paid about $ 1,000 for passage, Douglas said.

Many of them carried jewelry or U.S. currency, according to police reports. One
man had a Boynton Beach address and phone number written on a slip of paper in
his pocket, Kuss said.

Though the immigrants said they hadn't eaten in two days, most refused the
scrambled eggs, potatoes, toast and soda that officers bought them, Sgt. Eric
Jensen said.

''They told a lot of conflicting stories,'' Kuss said. ''Some of them may be
trying to preserve the route so they can use it again.''

Immigration from Guyana and Nigeria to the United States increased in the past
decade, but Border Patrol statistics show that Haitians, Cubans, Hondurans and
Guatemalans still constitute the majority of Florida's immigration arrests.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), BILL INGRAM/Staff Photographer, Border Patrol agent Kevin
Douglas helps guide illegal immigrants into a department van outside the Boynton
Beach police station Tuesday.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              136 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 4, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

PETITION FIGHTS BENEFITS TO SOME IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


A group trying to keep undocumented immigrants out of public schools and public
assistance offices on Wednesday proposed amending the Florida Constitution to
say that.

The amendment form submitted to the state Division of Elections for review says
that only citizens or legal residents should be eligible for local and state
government benefits.

Routine medical care for children and emergency medical care for adults would
still be permitted, said Clay Townsend, an Orlando restaurant owner heading the
petition drive.

The group, operating under the name Save Our State, has begun a petition drive
to collect the voter signatures needed to get the amendment on the ballot in the
1996 general election.

Save Our State needs 42,000 signatures to trigger a Florida Supreme Court review
of the ballot language and 425,000 signatures to force the amendment on the
statewide ballot. If approved by voters, the amendment would go into effect July
1, 1997.

A similar petition drive from a group called FLA-187 is expected to be announced
during a news conference today in Boca Raton. Both petitions are modeled after
California's Proposition 187, which voters approved last year to deny public
benefits to undocumented immigrants.

''It's not anti-immigration,'' Townsend said of the Florida amendment. ''We
support orderly, legal immigration.''

He said the amendment is directed at the state's estimated 400,000 undocumented
immigrants. This would not affect Cuban or Haitian refugees or others seeking
political asylum.

Petition organizer Doug Guetzloe of Orlando said the amendment would make
Florida ''more inhospitable'' for undocumented immigrants.

Townsend said several bills filed in the legislature to deal with the
immigration problem have died this year.

Rep. Ken Pruitt, R-Port St. Lucie, tried to blunt what he called the Proposition
187 ''hysteria'' by proposing a bill to curb benefits to illegal immigrants, but
it's gotten nowhere.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE NEWS / Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              137 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 26, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

AMENDMENT AIMED AT ILLEGALS

BYLINE: ERICA SHAFFER

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Under a proposed constitutional amendment introduced Thursday, children born in
the United States would not be eligible for automatic citizenship if their
parents are illegal immigrants.

Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, said his Citizenship Clarification Amendment
was designed to take away an incentive for immigrants to come to the United
States illegally.

He said illegal immigrants and their children could still receive emergency
medical care.

But Foley said illegal immigrants would not be entitled to the Medicaid and
Social Security benefits U.S. citizens receive.

Foley, a member of the House Immigration Task Force, said the amendment would
clarify citizenship requirements of the 14th Amendment of the Constitution,
which guarantees automatic citizenship to anyone born in the United States.

Sixteen Republicans and one Democrat have co-sponsored the amendment.

Rep. Bill Baker, R-Calif., who joined Foley in his announcement, said the 14th
Amendment was not originally designed to address illegal immigration.

''It was intended to embrace the people that were here without any documentation
- slaves,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              138 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 12, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL CHIEF FINDS SAME WOES, DEEPER WATERS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: PEMBROKE PINES


Billy Kring's last post was the West Texas frontier where Mexicans slip across
the Rio Grande in trucks and buses at places where the river is less than
knee-deep.

''You never knew what to expect, but I can say the same thing about South
Florida,'' said Kring, who took over in January as the chief patrol agent for
the U.S. Border Patrol in Florida.

Instead of river crossings, Kring's new headache is the deep water of the
Florida Straits and the Gulf Stream. Thousands of illegal immigrants from all
corners of the world cross the water border seeking a better life in the United
States.

Last month, Kring's agents apprehended undocumented immigrants from 104
countries.

Besides the depth of the water and the international mix of immigrants, South
Florida has given Kring an added migraine. While the federal government plans to
hire more agents to guard the Rio Grande, South Florida probably won't see any
new agents for two years or more, he said.

Kring, a Texas-born history buff and yet-to-be-published author, says he won't
be looking for easy answers to deal with the tide of refugees seeking to enter
Florida.

''If there is an issue more complicated than immigration, I don't know what it
is,'' he said. ''If you are a DEA agent, you arrest drug dealers. If you are an
immigration officer or Border Patrol agent, you have every humanitarian aspect
you can think of.''

Kring, 44, joined the Border Patrol in 1973 after serving as a highway patrolman
in Texas. He has a history degree from Southwest Texas State University.

Kring's West Texas roots and interest in history led to his historical novel
about John King Fisher, a real-life Texas outlaw who became a lawman. The
manuscript is now in the hands of Doubleday publishers.

As chief agent, Kring oversees the apprehension of about 8,000 undocumented
immigrants a year. He said he expects the number to rise to 10,000 this year but
with no additional agents to deal with the increase.

While President Clinton wants to hire 700 new agents to patrol the country's
border with Mexico, no reinforcements are planned for Florida, he said.

Kring supervises 50 Border Patrol agents in Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas
from the patrol's sector headquarters in Pembroke Pines in southern Broward
County. Four agents are assigned to the Riviera Beach station that covers eight
counties and 120 miles of coastline.

The increase in apprehensions in South Florida is expected from immigrants
moving away from the reinforced U.S.-Mexico border as well as the traditional
flow of immigrants from the Caribbean, the Bahamas and elsewhere.

While political turmoil in Haiti has been brought under control, Kring said he
expects Haitians to continue to seek illegal entry into the United States.

''They have been impoverished and brutalized for so long,'' he said. ''There are
always going to be people who want to come over because of stories that the
streets are paved with gold.''

Several thousand Haitians stranded in the Bahamas would rather come to the
United States than return to Haiti, he said. One small boatload landed at Juno
Beach June 1, but Kring said more are coming ashore along beaches north and
south of Palm Beach County.

Recent apprehensions of Haitians and smugglers are apparently driving them away
from Palm Beach County, he said.

''They are branching out, trying not to set a pattern,'' Kring said.

Another possible source of immigrants continues to be Cuba, he said. The new
U.S. policy of picking up rafters and returning them to Cuba is expected to lead
to an increase in smugglers leaving from South Florida to pick up Cubans.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Billy Kring (mug)

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              139 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 13, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

COST OF JAILING IMMIGRANTS RIPPED

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 158 words


Federal officials should pay the cost of undocumented immigrants who are jailed
in Palm Beach County on traffic offenses and petty crimes, criminal justice
leaders agreed Tuesday.

State Attorney Barry Krischer criticized the U.S. Border Patrol for not
deporting undocumented immigrants arrested on misdemeanor charges.

Undocumented immigrants arrested on felony charges have been deported since
December in a program initiated by Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles. But 111
defendants who have been arrested on misdemeanor charges since December spent 3
to 5 days at the county jail before they were released without deportation.

Federal officials have refused to pay the $ 35,000 to house the undocumented
immigrants.

The executive committee of the county's Criminal Justice Commission agreed
Tuesday to ask county commissioners at a meeting later this month to seek
Chiles' help in securing a $ 35,000 reimbursement from federal officials.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              140 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 6, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

LET IN SOME REALITY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 420 words


The Clinton administration kept one bean counter on the job last month long
enough to count 51,600 illegal aliens deported last year, 75 percent more than
were kicked out in 1990. Unfortunately, 60 percent of last year's deportees
finished prison terms before leaving.

A prison term is the most expensive social service the government provides.

In the furious, overblown debate about immigration, cost is catnip. The FLA-187
Committee claims ''studies indicate that the cost in taxpayer dollars (federal,
state and local) of uncontrolled immigration and multilingualism now exceeds $
1,450 per Florida household.'' Other studies have other results. One, for the
Cato Institute, shows legal immigrants cost government less than natives. No one
can pin down what illegals cost. If they could be found for studies, they could
be deported.

The FLA-187 Committee is using preferred figures in its effort to change the
Florida Constitution to bar illegals from welfare (most of which is already
denied them) and public schools and to give the state a role in enforcing laws
against illegal immigration. The committee is trying to apply last year's
California referendum, which federal courts are whittling down, to Florida. It
would be a futile and costly change; immigration is Washington's job.

Washington's failures mean that in some construction trades, the work is done by
illegals. That may hold down home prices (but probably doesn't) and surely
raises public health costs, since the workers are uninsured. Other failures
become crime victims and, being illegal, don't report their victimization. That
encourages criminals, which is bad for everybody.

The improvement in Washington's figures is due mainly to a policy switch that
lets the Immigration and Naturalization Service conduct deportation hearings in
prisons rather than asking prisoners to return for hearings after release. A
1988 law allowed the obvious improvement. But the INS wasn't given enough
hearing officers to take advantage of it until 1994.

The INS says beefed-up border patrols led to a 93 percent increase over 1994 in
the number of illegals turned away at the border. But, since the total was still
under 10,000, most illegal entrants are being missed.

Those who debate the issue on emotion don't want to hear it, but the cold fact
is this: It will take a lot more money, which Congress doesn't want to spend, to
police borders and job sites before we'll see any savings from ''cracking down''
on illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              141 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 27, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. CRACKS DOWN ON ILLEGALS WITH ONE HAND, HIRES THEM WITH THE OTHER

BYLINE: MARC LACEY

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Even as the federal government fights illegal immigration, it is unknowingly
hiring illegal immigrants itself - to construct office buildings, plant trees,
clean offices and perform countless other chores.

Nobody knows for sure how many illegal immigrants might be working for federal
government contractors, but President Clinton - eager to seize the initiative on
immigration as the election season heats up - proposed an executive order in his
State of the Union address this week aimed at wiping out the apparent
contradiction.

Under the new rule, federal agencies could bar government contracts to employers
found to have knowingly hired illegal workers.

''We don't know the scope of the problem,'' acknowledged INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner. ''We do know the industries that tend to be heavy users of illegal
labor, and we have federal contracts in those industries.''

Even with the executive order, however, the government will have a tough time
sanctioning employers, even if they are found to have illegal immigrants on the
payroll. To be cited by the INS, companies must ''knowingly'' hire illegal
immigrants - a tough point to prove because fraudulent work papers can be made
to look authentic.

The INS fined several hundred companies last year for knowingly hiring illegal
immigrants, INS officials said. But no procedure has been in place to make sure
that those with government contracts lose out on future business.

Thomas Fischer, director of the INS office in Atlanta, has already encountered
some illegal immigrants on the federal payroll.

Right outside his window, where a federal office complex is going up, Fischer's
investigators recently arrested three dozen illegal workers from Mexico,
Guatemala and Canada who were working for a subcontractor.

''It would be naive of me to say none of our contractors are employing illegal
immigrants,'' acknowledged Ida Ustad, the associate administrator of the General
Services Administration, the massive agency that oversees the government's
buildings. ''We have 7,000 buildings and we issue thousands of contracts. I'm
sure there are cases where some company is either knowingly or unknowingly
hiring an illegal alien.''

''I burst out laughing when I heard the president's speech,'' said Martin
Desmond, executive director of the Northwest Reforestation Contractors Assn. in
Eugene, Ore. ''It's probably well-intentioned, but here in the Northwest the
federal government is the biggest employer of illegal immigrants there is.''

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              142 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 14, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRANT DRIVE FALTERING

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


 A petition drive to limit services to undocumented immigrants is struggling to
latch onto the anti-immigration mood of voters.
   FLA-187, a political committee formed 10 months ago, has counted only 15,000
signatures and is reassessing a goal for a four-amendment package on the
November statewide ballot.
 Each of the initiatives requires 450,000 signatures by Aug. 1.
   While most voters seem to support the amendments, they are not anxious to
fill out multiple petitions or dig into their pockets to help finance the
petition drive.
   ''We haven't seen crowds of peasants with pitchforks, that's for sure,'' said
Rob Ross, executive director of the Delray Beach-based FLA-187. ''There may have
been some miscalculations on our part.''
   To rebound, FLA-187 is planning a telemarketing campaign and has pushed aside
three of the four amendments targeted for the November ballot.
   Just one amendment - to deny social services to illegal immigrants - made the
rounds at FLA-187 signature-gathering booths at polling places Tuesday.
   ''There is an awful lot for someone to absorb in four petitions,'' Ross said.
''We didn't realize how much time it would take to explain them until we got
into the field.''
   Ross said other problems are raising money, lack of professional staff and
the absence of support from the Republican Party and other political groups.
   FLA-187 reported $ 52,000 in contributions at the end of 1995 and raised $
9,500 this year, according to Beverly Mize, treasurer for the committee.
   More than half of FLA-187's money has come from the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a Washington, D.C.-based lobby that claims about 7,000
dues-paying members in Florida.
   David Ray, FAIR's eastern field director and an adviser to FLA-187, said the
contributions are justified because Floridians have contributed more than $ 1
million to FAIR's efforts to tighten the nation's immigration laws.
   ''FAIR responded to the citizens of Florida who wanted this to happen,'' Ray
said. ''We are simply offering assistance.''
   Besides denying social services, FLA-187 wants state constitutional
amendments to declare English as the official language, to deny public education
to children of illegal immigrants and to require state and local governments to
report illegal immigrants to federal immigration authorities.
   An Orlando-based group called Save Our State also is petitioning for an
amendment to deny social services to undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE NEWS / Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              143 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 24, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

CONGRESSIONAL REPORT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 5F

LENGTH: 768 words


Votes of Florida members of Congress on key issues during the week ending March
22:

KEY HOUSE VOTES

HOUSE VOTES TO DENY PUBLIC EDUCATION FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS. The House on March
20 voted, 257-163, to give states the power to deny public education to illegal
immigrant children.

The vote came as the House was debating a sweeping overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws.

At issue is a 1982 Supreme Court decision that said that states did not have the
authority to deny illegal alien children access to public education.

Federal courts have blocked implementation of California's Proposition 187,
which would have cut off education for illegal immigrant children, by citing the
Supreme Court decision.

The Republican-sponsored amendment to the immigration bill would leave the
question entirely up to the states to decide, but it would not apply to children
born in the United States, even if their parents were illegal aliens.

Proponents of the amendment argued that children who come into the United States
illegally were unfairly taking resources away from citizens.

'Whose children do we care about?' asked Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif. 'We care
about our children first, and we make no apology for it.'

Texas Democrat John Bryant led the fight against the amendment.

'The Supreme Court ruled a long time ago that we will not visit the sins of the
mothers and fathers on children when it comes to education,' he said.

The House passed the underlying immigration bill by an overwhelming margin the
following day.

Voting to allow states to deny public education to illegal immigrants:
Democrats: Deutsch. Republicans: Bilirakis, Canady, Foley, Fowler, Goss,
McCollum, Mica, Miller, Scarborough, Shaw, Stearns, Weldon, Young.

Voting against: Democrats: Brown, Gibbons, Hastings, Meek, Thurman. Republicans:
Diaz-Balart, Ros-Lehtinen.

Not Voting: Democrats: Johnston, Peterson.

HOUSE REAFFIRMS U.S. DUTY TO ASSIST TAIWAN. The House on March 20 sent an
unequivocal message of support to the people of Taiwan when it passed, 369-14, a
resolution affirming the duty of the United States to assist in its defense.

China has been conducting live-ammunition war games off Taiwan's shores for
several weeks.

President Clinton has ordered two battle groups into the area to keep the
shipping lanes around Taiwan passable.

The administration did not directly oppose the resolution, but indicated that it
was an unnecessary reiteration of policy that is already codified as a part of
the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act.

'The time for ambiguity is over and the time for clarity is upon us,' said
Christopher Cox, R-Calif., in support of the resolution.

Bill Richardson, D-N.M., objected that the resolution would constrain the
president's authority over foreign policy.

'Why can't we let the executive branch conduct foreign policy in a way that does
not tie their hands?' he asked.

The Senate unanimously passed a watered-down version of the resolution two days
later.

Voting to support Taiwan's defense: Democrats: Brown, Deutsch, Gibbons,
Hastings, Meek, Thurman. Republicans: Bilirakis, Canady, Diaz-Balart, Foley,
Fowler, Goss, McCollum, Mica, Miller, Ros-Lehtinen, Scarborough, Shaw, Stearns,
Weldon.

Voting against: Young (R).

Not Voting: Democrats: Johnston, Peterson.

KEY SENATE VOTES

SENATE APPROVES LIMITS ON FAULTY PRODUCT LAWSUITS. The Senate on March 21
passed, 59-40, compromise legislation that would limit state and federal court
damage awards to consumers injured by faulty products. The House is expected to
pass the bill the week of March 25.

President Clinton announced March 16 that he would veto the bill, which he said
would scrap important protections for victims of accidents involving faulty
products.

It takes a two-thirds majority of both chambers to override the president's
veto.

The legislation has been the subject of an intense lobbying campaign pitting its
business supporters against trial lawyers and consumer advocates who oppose the
bill.

John D. Rockefeller IV, D-W. Va., one of a handful of Democrats supporting the
legislation, said there is an 'immensely compelling and urgent need for product
liability reform . . . the status quo is hurting American business, consumers
and the economy.'

Among those opposing the legislation was Ernest F. Hollings, D-S.C., who called
it an 'anti-consumer' bill that would make it harder for everyday consumers and
workers at factories to recover losses from product-related injuries.

Voting to limit faulty product lawsuits: Mack (R).

Voting against: Graham (D).

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              144 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 22, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

FOLEY SHOWS ONLY BIGOTRY IN IDEAS ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 290 words


I recently received a notice from U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach,
announcing that he was having a town hall meeting in Royal Palm Beach. The
stated purpose was to give his constituents an update on ''his effort to curb
illegal immigration into the U.S.'' Rep. Foley was one of the first to
capitalize on the mood, so prevalent today, that blames many of our problems on
immigrants and inspires the police to treat illegal immigrants as they did on
that roadside in California. There have been other countries in other times that
have expressed the same sentiments and inflamed the same emotions. Pre-World War
II Germany is the one that springs to mind. Scapegoating immigrants is not a new
school of thought, since they have no lobbyists and do not vote.

Rep. Foley's notice claims that these unwanted, illegal immigrants come here
''with no intention of learning the language, no willingness to obey our laws
and no desire to work hard like many of our ancestors.'' How is it possible for
him to know their intentions? Which group is he referring to? Is he talking
about Cuban refugees who choose to continue using Spanish? Or is he talking only
about Mexican illegal aliens? Do all legal aliens intend to work hard and learn
English? Or are the only immigrants that Rep. Foley approves of those who
already speak English? According to the standards Rep. Foley is putting in
place, my grandmother - who emigrated from Poland and never learned to read or
write English - should not have been allowed to come here.

I think it is Rep. Foley and his bigoted rhetoric that this country has to fear,
not the needs of the hungry, huddled masses yearning to breathe free - legal or
illegal.

Bonnie S. Cohen

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              145 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 23, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

MEXICO CAN SHARE BLAME FOR ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 230 words


In the article ''Mexico, U.S. agree on plan to prevent immigration abuse,'' both
the U.S. Justice Department and Mexico's Department of Foreign Affairs seem to
have missed the point.

The article mentioned agreements for official review of procedures for towns on
the border, and increased human rights awareness. It mentions the Mexican
government's concern over the possibility of future mistreatment of Mexicans in
this country, and that the Justice Department also is concerned.

Would we be more outraged by the beating of Mexican citizens by Riverside
County, Calif., deputies if it had been done to U.S. citizens? I hope not. Does
the fact that it was eight foreigners, not Americans, who died in the crash of a
speeding truck chased by the U.S. Border Patrol make it a good thing? Again, I
hope not. Would Mexicans be more welcome here if the majority came with any
ability to provide for themselves? Probably so.

Perhaps these are two unrelated problems: 1) that some police officers and or
their departments condone, even promote, the use of extreme force; 2) that
illegal aliens are choking our economy.

If Mexico's government has a problem with the prospects for its citizens, maybe
it should work to make life better south of the border. The Border Patrol does
not chase people who come here through legal means.

David Brownstein

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              146 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 8, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

PACT SIGNED TO HELP EASE MEXICAN RESENTMENT

BYLINE: NANCY NUSSER

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Recent U.S. efforts to stem the flow of illegal immigration have provoked
resentment among Mexicans, who long have used the historic openness of the U.S.
border as a convenient escape hatch in the face of joblessness and poverty at
home.

"We've grown up knowing we can go to the United States if we have to, that it's
always possible to cross," said Sergio Aguayo, an expert on U.S.-Mexico
relations at the College of Mexico in Mexico City. "That's changing and it's a
source of anger."

Alleviating that anger was the backdrop to the two-day visit here by Secretary
of State Warren Christopher and a bevy of senior Clinton administration
officials that concluded Tuesday with the signing of an agreement that addressed
some of Mexico's concerns.

The immigration "memorandum of understanding," one of 11 accords signed between
the two sides, is aimed at reducing the chance that undocumented immigrants will
suffer mistreatment while in police custody.

A series of incidents over the past five weeks in California in which 10
Mexicans were killed following police pursuits and two others were beaten
sparked an outcry in Mexico.

Immigration service officials don't have estimates of the number of illegal
crossings yearly. But in 1995, 1.2 million illegal immigrants were apprehended
trying to cross the border, and experts estimate that at least as many succeeded
in getting through.

The open border has been convenient for the ruling Institutional Revolutionary
Party, which has overseen regular economic crises for most of its nearly seven
decades in power and has never developed an economy healthy enough to reduce
poverty to much less than 50 percent of the population.

Migration north - legal and illegal - provided the PRI with a safety valve. As
long as the most disgruntled Mexicans could leave in search of jobs in the
United States, they were unable to foment political unrest at home or join in a
powerful anti-government voting bloc.

Immigration means the Mexican government hasn't had to "face its own economic
dynamic," said Rodolfo de la Garza, a Mexico expert at the University of Texas
in Austin. "The people who they can't employ don't cause trouble" once they have
left for the United States.

But all of that is changing. This year the Clinton administration will add 1,000
U.S. Border Patrol agents to the Mexican border. The Border Patrol budget has
been raised to more than $ 500 million, compared with $ 360 million in 1993 and
there are plans to build more fences along the frontier.

At the same time, the Senate and House have approved measures designed to stem
the flow of illegal immigrants by punishing anyone caught entering the United
States illegally and imposing criminal penalties against smugglers.

Mexican officials have reacted bitterly to the changes.

"The border between our nations is one of the most dynamic in the world" Foreign
Minister Jose Angel Gurria said Monday at the outset of the Christopher visit.
"Far from perceiving it as a place in which to build new walls, we should
promote the creation of a region of shared prosperity."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Secretary of State Warren
Christopher puts on headphones Tuesday to hear a translation from Spanish.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              147 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 30, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

U.S., FLORIDA TARGET ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration and Florida officials unveiled plans Wednesday to
combat illegal immigration, including two programs that will begin in Palm Beach
County.

"We are prepared to meet Florida's immigration challenges on every front: in the
criminal justice system; in the workplace; in our community; and at Florida's
borders," said Attorney General Janet Reno, at a news conference with Gov.
Lawton Chiles and Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's plans call for more vigorous
efforts to keep undocumented immigrants from entering the United States and for
removing those that break the law.

Beginning in July, deportable immigrants held in the county jail will be turned
over to the INS for rapid deportation. In most cases, hearings will have been
held while the criminal was still in jail rather than waiting until the
immigrant is released. A similar program will operate in Dade County.

Until now, criminal immigrants have been deported only from state prisons. On
Thursday, about 30 more criminal immigrants are scheduled to be deported from
Florida, raising the total to 358 so far.

Also this summer, Palm Beach County law enforcement officers will be the first
in the state to have access to computerized records on criminal immigrants
through INS' Law Enforcement Support Center.

West Palm Beach Police Chief Billy Riggs said the initiative has yet to be
discussed among local police chiefs, but the prospect is promising.

"We would welcome with open arms the information exchange," Riggs said.

The U.S. Customs Service, which operates an office locally, also said it would
stand to benefit from improved inter-agency communication.

"We have a good relationship with the INS. We work hand-in-hand sitting at the
borders," said U.S. Customs resident agent-in-charge John Sullivan. "But
anything which helps us do the job more effectively has got to be good."

Among the more radical approaches in the plan is an immigration "airport court"
to be set up at Miami International Airport in July to hear cases dealing with
passengers arriving without proper travel documents.

Now, many passengers without proper documents are released into the general
public with an immigration hearing set far in the future. Immigrants contesting
their case will be detained at the Krome Service Processing Center in Miami.
That center will be expanded from 226 beds to more than 800.

INS is expected to gain another 180 beds in Manatee County when a new jail opens
and the agency assumes use of the old jail.

Reno, a Dade County native and former state attorney there, said she knew how
"immigrants - new generations of Americans - have brought vitality, spirit and
entrepreneurial quality to Florida's civic institutions, its commercial and its
cultural life.

"But I also know hurtful it is when our immigration laws are flouted and our
immigration system lies in disrepair."

The plan will assign 240 additional INS agents to Florida at a cost of $ 7.6
million, said INS Deputy Director Chris Sale.

The Florida immigration program is the second announced by the Clinton
administration in two days involving a vote-rich state that could be crucial in
the November election. On Tuesday, the administration announced new border
control activities in Southern California, where feelings against illegal
immigration have run extremely high.

Reno said the announcements had nothing to do politics but were a result of
finally settling the department's budget for the remainder of the year that ends
Sept. 30.

Chiles said he was pleased by the administration's actions, particularly in the
face of the U.S. Supreme Court's rejection this month of Florida's suit against
the federal government to pay for the cost of illegal immigration.

Chiles said he hoped the new program also would take the steam out of efforts to
place a proposed state constitutional amendment on the November ballot that
would limit services for immigrants regardless of their legal status.

Chiles predicted the airport courts would be a strong deterrent against efforts
to enter the United States illegally though Miami International Airport.

"Word will go back to the countries from which they're coming that the minute
you get off that plane, you go to court and you go back," he said.

Statewide, INS will increase its hearings staff from 21 to 39 and open a
temporary office in Orlando. In addition, INS is assigning three attorneys to
serve as special assistant U.S. attorneys to prosecute criminal immigrants who
have been deported and returned to the country illegally.

To further discourage illegal immigrants before they arrive, the Justice
Department will launch an anti-smuggling operation designed to "identify,
penetrate and prosecute smuggling organizations that use the Caribbean Basin as
a staging point."

Meanwhile the U.S. Embassy's consular section in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, will
have access to data from Florida that will allow officials to determine whether
a visa applicant has received public assistance from the state. Such an
applicant would have to provide restitution before being eligible for another
visa.

The INS also is expanding a pilot project aimed at allowing employers to check
the immigration status of potential employees in occupations with a large number
of undocumented workers. In this case, the program is aimed at the hotel and
tourism industry.

MacKay said Florida will develop lists of U.S. citizens and legally documented
immigrants to fill jobs opened by such efforts.

"Florida jobs should be reserved for Florida workers and for immigrants who are
legally in Florida," MacKay said.

CRACKDOWN PLAN

Here are highlights of the immigration enforcement plan for Florida:

NEW PROJECTS at the Palm Beach County and Dade County jails to deport criminal,
undocumented immigrants.

CREATION of an Immigration 'Airport Court' at Miami International Airport to
hold immediate proceedings on undocumented immigrants.

EXPANSION of the voluntary employment verification system in the tourism
industry to allow employers to check whether job applicants have proper
immigration status.

INCREASE sharing of information between state and local law enforcement agencies
and the Immigration and Naturalization Service regarding criminal immigrants.
The program will begin in Palm Beach County this summer.

INCREASE prosecution of deported criminals who re-enter the United States
illegally.

EXPAND the capacity of the Krome Service Processing Center in Miami from 226
beds to more than 800 beds for detaining undocumented immigrants, and building a
new INS office in Miami.

ASSIGN 240 new INS agents to Florida at a cost of $ 7.6 million.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              148 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 3, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

GOOD OFFICES OF GOVERNMENT WILL SLOW IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: GEORGE McEVOY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 658 words


So, this country is finally going to launch an all-out crackdown on illegal
immigrants - about 500 years too late, if you happen to be a Cherokee, a Mohawk
or a member of any of the other indigenous tribes.

Amid much fanfare, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and Florida's Gov. Lawton
Chiles last week unveiled what they called a sweeping strategy to rid the
nation, and Florida in particular, of those who arrive without proper
documentation.

Naturally, the first thing they're going to do is erect a 240,000-square-foot
building in the Miami area to house Immigration and Naturalization Service
offices.

More than 200 new INS employees will be added to the local staff, and detention
space will be expanded to hold the illegals awaiting deportation.

I don't know why, but every time the federal government comes out with some
great new plan to benefit the citizenry, it always begins by building offices
for a bunch of bureaucrats.

Like there isn't any available office space for rent in Dade County?

After the Watts riots in Los Angeles, all sorts of promises were made on how the
feds were going to pour money into that ghetto area in an attempt to encourage
businesses to locate there and create jobs.

About a year later, reporters went to Watts and found that only two things had
been done - nice new trash cans had been placed on street corners, and a
sprawling office complex had been erected.

The vast majority of the people hired to work in that new building were from
outside the Watts area, of course.

The latest crackdown on illegal immigrants will feature an Airport Court, right
at Miami International Airport, with INS hearing officers who will be able to
deport people on the spot.

That may expedite matters, but why is it I keep getting this vision of a
mean-looking little guy in a long black leather coat, demanding to know - "Vere
are your papers?!"

Well, at least there'll be using genuine INS agents in Miami, unlike San Diego,
California, where self-appointed citizen patrols - a euphemism for "vigilantes"
- have been strutting around the airport in search of illegals.

These amateurs decked themselves out in dark blue T-shirts bearing the words
"U.S. Citizens Patrol" on the front, making them look very official.

Members of the group insist they never talk to passengers.

Instead, they say, they only ask airline ticketing employees to check every
passenger's identification.

The ticket counter employees already do that because it is required by the
Federal Aviation Administration.

And anybody who has flown recently knows that they always ask for a photo ID,
such as a driver license. So, who needs these officious amateurs?

A superior court judge in San Diego apparently feels the same way, because he
recently extended a ban to keep the Citizens Patrol out of San Diego's Lindbergh
Field.

He said they actually were interfering with airport security. His order will
remain in effect until an injunction hearing can be held.

Whether the amateurs do only speak to airline employees or whether - as has been
alleged - they actually brace and question people who look too Hispanic and too
suspicious to suit them, the INS would be happy if they just went away.

Rudy Murillo, an INS spokesman in San Diego, said his agency needs no assistance
from such folks.

The trouble with well-meaning amateurs is that they don't understand the subtler
aspects of immigration security.

For instance, there are times when INS agents might intentionally allow an
illegal immigrant to slip past them and travel to other parts of the U.S.

If he happens to be a suspected terrorist, he might inadvertently lead the U.S.
agents to his contacts in America.

At least, any illegal immigrants trying to enter through Florida will be chased
down by professionals.

Just as soon as that new office building gets built, that is.

George McEvoy is a columnist for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              149 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 27, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RECESSION SLOWS FLOW OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The sluggish U.S. economy is making many illegal immigrants think twice

about coming to find work-- or at least think harder, researchers say.

"The recession in the United States has overlapped across the border into
Mexico. Fewer people are coming on a whim," said Leo Estrada, a University of
California, Los Angeles, researcher specializing in immigration demographics.
"Part of what we see is the immigrants, the new ones, they appear to be

coming with a lot more knowledge of the workplace," he said.

No one knows exactly how many undocumented immigrants cross the Mexican

border each year.

The U.S. Border Patrol arrested 1.2 million illegal immigrants in fiscal 1992,
but the agency estimates that for each arrest at least one immigrant

eludes capture, said Steven Kean, spokesman for the patrol's San Diego office.
The Colegio de la Frontera Norte, a Mexican research institute that counts and
interviews immigrants three times a week at five border cities, said

evidence suggests the flow of undocumented workers leveled off in 1991 and has
remained steady this year.

At the same time, the number of first-time crossers increased about 12

percent, said Jorge Bustamonte, president of the institute.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 23, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COUPLE MAY BE SUBJECT TO DEPORTATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, CONN.


The Peruvian couple labored in obscurity like most undocumented aliens

-- until their former employer was nominated to be U.S. attorney general.

Now Zoe Baird has withdrawn her nomination, and the couple who worked for her
could get kicked out of the country-- if they haven't left already.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service told Victor and Lillian Cordero on
Friday to appear for questioning next week in Hartford to determine if

deportation proceedings should begin.

"They were in the wrong place at the wrong time," said Helene Pepe, an

attorney representing Victor Cordero.

But Victor Cordero's current employer said Friday that he had disappeared,
leaving behind a note saying he planned to return to Peru.

The whereabouts of Mrs. Cordero, who had separated from her husband, could not
be determined Friday. She had worked for Baird until November.

Baird, 40, of New Haven withdrew her name from consideration as attorney

general early Friday because of criticism over her hiring of the undocumented
workers. She paid a $2,900 fine for employing the couple and paid back $12,000
in delinquent Social Security taxes and penalties.

The Corderos went to work for Baird and her husband, Yale University law

Professor Paul Gewirtz, in 1990. Victor Cordero was a chauffeur and his wife

was a live-in nanny.

Cordero, 26, left Baird's home in March and went to work for Stamford

businessman Sanford Redmond as a housekeeper, groundskeeper and electrician.

Redmond said he was unaware Cordero was an illegal alien until it was reported
after Baird's nomination.

Redmond said he found a note from Cordero late Thursday when he returned

home from work.

"I am very sorry but I have to go back to mi (sic) country," Cordero

said in the note. "I don't want any problems for you. You are a nice person.

Please forgive me. Thanks for everything."

Verne Jervis, an INS spokesman in Washington, said that if the immigration
service determines the Corderos are in the country illegally, they could leave
voluntarily or the agency would begin deportation proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/CORDERO, VICTOR)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 23, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RAINS BLAMED IN DEATHS OF MEXICANS CROSSING BORDER

BYLINE: The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The corpses have been washing up onto riverbanks and beaches for weeks now,
casualties of powerful rainstorms that have made the U.S.-Mexico border

increasingly treacherous for illegal immigrants.

At least six people have drowned while trying to cross the Tijuana River

and flooded waterways in U.S. territory since heavy rains first pounded this

region last month.

Sixteen more migrants are reported missing and feared dead. Several of

them were last seen struggling in the muddy, fast-moving waters that have

become the newest hazard-- along with robbers, rocky terrain and freeway

traffic-- of the busiest crossing zone on the border.

"For every body that we have found there's a lot more people that have

drowned and nobody knows about," said Sgt. John Everhart of the San Diego

Lifeguard Service.

Despite new storms this weekend, the desperate advance of border-crossers
continues. Authorities found three more bodies-- two men and a woman

-- Saturday on the beach near the mouth of the river. It had not been

determined whether the woman, identified as Celia Galeano Garcia, was the same
woman who witnesses reported shouting for help as the current pulled her

toward the Pacific Ocean.

More than 175 migrants have been pulled from the water by U.S. rescuers

-- lifeguards, Border Patrol agents or police-- since early January.

Officers of Grupo Beta, a Mexican border police unit, are also making

rescues and warning migrants against risking their lives.

"If we can't stop them, if the river can't stop them, what can stop

them?" said Javier Valenzuela Malagon, chief of Grupo Beta.

Relatives have identified some of the dead, including Hector Hernandez

Rodriguez, 43, a gardener and father of three.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NAMELIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 26, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COLOMBIAN TEEN ATTEMPTS;
SECOND TRIP AS STOWAWAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA


A Colombian runaway, who less than two weeks ago was deported from the United
States after claiming he stowed away in the wheel well of a cargo jet, was found
trying to repeat the adventure.

Juan Carlos Guzman, 17, was sniffed out Friday by trained dogs in Bogota just
before the Arca aircraft was to leave for Miami, said Capt. Hernando Gutierrez,
manager of Arca.

He apparently snuck into the wheel well in the Cali airport and endured five
takeoffs and landings between there and Bogota before he was found, Gutierrez
told the radio station RCN.

``This time he was well prepared to resist the cold,'' Gutierrez said. Guzman
wore three layers of clothes, he said.

The teen said he was trying to return to the United States because he's obsessed
with living there, the Arca official said.

Guzman, who lied about his name, age and family to evade immigration officials
when he arrived June 4 in Miami, was sent home to Cali on July 14.

His story made national headlines when he claimed to have made the three-hour
journey from Bogota in the cargo jet's wheel well.

INS officials doubted his story from the start but gave him a 30-day parole so
they could investigate. In the meantime, Colombian exiles in the community came
to his aid with shelter.

Aviation and medical experts said it was virtually impossible for him to have
survived for that long in a wheel well because of the altitude, intense cold and
lack of oxygen.

The teenager initially claimed he was a 14-year-old orphan named Guillermo
Rosales, who worked and lived at the Cali airport. However, Colombian
authorities informed INS of his true identity and name of his mother and
stepfather.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 9, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PLAN REOPENED TO CHARGE TOLLS AT U.S. BORDERS;
LAWMAKERS SAY THE U.S. NEEDS THE REVENUE TO CRACK DOWN ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 500 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Lawmakers eager to crack down on illegal immigration without raiding the
Treasury to pay for it have revived a decade-old proposal to charge a toll for
crossing overland from Canada and Mexico into the United States.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who proposed the border-crossing fee in June,
estimates that a $1 fee could raise more than $400 million a year. The money
could be used to strengthen the border patrol, cover immigration-related costs
and facilitate border traffic, she said.

Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., first proposed a border toll in 1982 - long before
immigration became a hot-button issue - but his bill was defeated for fear that
it would discourage tourism.

``This revenue should first go to beef up the border gates on the San Diego
border,'' Feinstein testified before a House subcommittee last week. ``This is
an idea whose time has come.''

Last year, nearly half of the 1.2 million illegal immigrants caught by the
border patrol were apprehended along the California-Mexico border near San
Diego. The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that its agents
catch only about one-third of those who enter the country illegally.

President Clinton, whose original budget proposal would have cut 93 agents from
the 4,770-strong force, called in July for adding 600 agents and $45 million to
the border patrol. But others say it would take more than 5,000 new agents to
secure the porous southwestern border.

Among the benefits of the proposed toll, backers say, is that it is a ``user
fee'' raising revenue from those who benefit directly from greater border
security and efficiency and doesn't tax the entire country.

But Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., co-chair of the House GOP's new Task Force on
Illegal Immigration, said Friday that a border toll ``penalizes the ones that
are legally coming in, while those that are illegally coming in aren't paying
anything.''

Border-town residents and North American Free Trade Agreement advocates say a
toll might create more problems than it would solve.

``This would be disastrous for our city and would create immigration problems
like no one could describe to you,'' El Paso, Texas, Mayor Larry Francis told a
Government Operations subcommittee. ``Any attempt to reduce the flow of people
will . . . initiate another economic downturn, another peso devaluation and
ultimately a new massive illegal immigration north.''

A State Department official warned that the plan likely would call forth
reciprocal tolls from Canada and Mexico and would require renegotiation of the
1988 Free Trade Agreement with Canada.

Neither Canada nor Mexico was consulted on the fee proposal prior to the
subcommittee hearing, according to Donna Hrinak, deputy assistant secretary of
state for inter-American affairs. Renewed interest in a border toll comes just
after a Justice Department audit in July found that INS, which claims to be
underfinanced, could generate at least $170 million annually by charging
appropriate fees for inspections and other services.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 9, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS FLEE BAHAMAS CRACKDOWN;
CLOSEST ROUTE TO U.S. IS PALM BEACH COUNTY

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A 50-mile dash through calm, unpatrolled seas is all that separates thousands of
Haitians from seeking refuge in the United States.

In the past two weeks, more than 60 Haitians have been caught after making the
journey. U.S. Border Patrol officers say they have no idea how many have come
ashore without being spotted.

The recent crossings may be the result of a crackdown in the Bahamas on illegal
immigrants. In late May, the Bahamian government rounded up more than 400
Haitians and forced most of them to return to Haiti.

The Bahamian government is insisting that Haitians take steps to become legal
residents or leave the country, said Mark Wilson, permanent secretary of the
Bahamas Ministry of Public Safety and Immigration.

Wilson said recent immigration sweeps were made in the Abacos and Eleuthera
islands, both due east of Palm Beach County.

``That is prompting many of the illegals to leave,'' Wilson said. ``It's quite
possible that whole families have decided they ought to leave that area.''

Wilson estimates that the Bahamas has 12,000 Haitian immigrants. Estimates from
human rights groups in the Bahamas put the number closer to 20,000.

U.S. Border Patrol officials said the Haitians are buying small boats in the
Bahamas to make the crossing or paying smugglers to drop them off at the
shoreline. Nearly all Haitians say they are coming from Haiti, but they show no
signs of exposure and have been wearing freshly washed clothing, said Neal
Richards, Border Patrol chief agent at the Port of Palm Beach.

A Border Patrol official in Miami said geography is the reason more Haitians
have been ending up in Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast in recent
months.

``If you have a map, look at where Grand Bahama Island is,'' said Border Patrol
intelligence chief Jerry Orgeck. ``Due west is West Palm Beach. Put a heading on
a compass and go straight and you can't miss it.''

Boat skippers who don't compensate for the north-flowing Gulf Stream will end up
in Martin or St. Lucie County. Twelve landed on Jupiter Island in Martin County
last week.

Orgeck said the recent landings simply continue a pattern of Haitians entering
the United States from the Bahamas.

Edy Sanon, a volunteer at the Haitian-American Community Council in Delray
Beach, said some Haitians are leaving the Bahamas because they are jailed
without reason and face other hardships.

``They are fleeing political persecution, either from Haiti or the Bahamas,''
Sanon said.

A Bahamian human rights worker said Haitians seeking political asylum in the
Bahamas face a difficult task because the government's position is that the
country already has too many immigrants.

``The Bahamas is not really keen on having any immigrant regularized in the
Bahamas,'' said D'Arcy Ryan, executive director of the Grand Bahama Human Rights
Association in Freeport. He said granting political asylum is rare and few know
how the process works.

``It's been the public expression of a number of our officials that the Bahamas
is overcrowded with refugees and they can't tolerate any more of them coming
here,'' Ryan said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 10, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DON'T FALL FOR 'OPINION POLL' ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Ron Wiggins

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 628 words


Solicitation mail masquerading as ``opinion polls'' rubs me the wrong way.

Maybe the American Immigration Control Foundation is a wonderful organization.
But after reading the questionnaire this Virginia-based group sent to me, I have
my doubts.

Here's a few of their questions and my reactions to them.

Do you approve or disapprove of having your tax dollars spent to support illegal
aliens?

Depends. What am I getting for my tax dollars? Just how many of my tax dollars
are ``supporting'' aliens? Is there anything to suggest that most aliens are
hard-working, family-oriented and ambitious? I'd rather help an illegal alien
for two months than support some of our home-grown bums.

As many as 500,000 illegals are using fake Social Security cards. Strong
evidence has been uncovered of illegals using fake documentation to register and
vote in our elections. Do you approve or disapprove?

I'm against fraud. Putting high-tech photographs on all our identification would
frustrate crooks, domestic and foreign. As for illegal voting, I say find every
alien who voted illegally, and award them full citizenship on the spot.

Which of the problems associated with illegal aliens are the most disturbing to
you? Terrorism, taxpayer cost, welfare fraud, social security fraud, infectious
disease, aliens voting in U.S. elections, rising health care costs, bilingual
public education, loss of jobs for U.S. citizens, crime and riot, other.

Other: Dealing with cynical, mean-spirited xenophobic behavior as exemplified by
this mailing comes to mind.

Right now some politicians are pushing to repeal laws against hiring illegals,
allowing employers to give American jobs away to illegals. Do you support the
law against hiring illegal aliens?

I don't know. I think it's futile and very, very expensive to empower a
government to keep people out of the marketplace whether the commodity is jobs
or drugs. A lot of Americans enjoy prosperity because they hire illegals.
Obviously millions of illegals constitute a thriving market as they buy food,
clothing, shelter, entertainment and transportation - and yes, medical care.

Some hospitals are going bankrupt because they are forced to give FREE treatment
to illegals . . . Have you noticed a significant increase in your health care
and insurance costs?

First, how do I know your hospital bankruptcy assertion is true? And to what
extent? What if further examination showed that in some border towns, hundreds
of thousands of small business owners and farmers are able to pay their medical
bills because they hire and sell to illegals? Indeed, some hospitals may
indirectly owe their solvency to illegals.

Illegal aliens are migrating rapidly through America. Do you have an illegal
alien problem in your community yet, as far as you know?

I'm sure we do have problems. I'm equally sure we enjoy benefits from having
them here. I don't know how the scales tip when the pluses and minuses are
added. I do fear the police state mentality your group seems to be promoting.

The U.S. Border Patrol has less than 4,000 officers to control the flood of 3
MILLION illegals every year. Experts have proposed assigning 10,000 troops from
military bases near our borders to assist in stopping the invasion. Do you favor
such a proposal?

How about we cut the U.S. Border Patrol manpower by 90 percent, and give free
transportation back to Mexico or Guatemala or China or wherever, to anybody who
comes to this country and can't find a job. I admit to prejudice where
foreigners are concerned. I suspect, that on the whole, the immigrant poor are a
more ambitious, harder working group of people than many of our domestic slobs
who wouldn't cross the street to take a job.

Remember that name: American Immigration Control Foundation. Don't send them any
money.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 30, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAWMAKERS CRACK DOWN ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By BOB DART Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1433 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Barbara Boxer wants the California National Guard sent out to seal her
state's border with Mexico - and she's a liberal Democrat.

Gov. Pete Wilson of California, a moderate Republican, says the Constitution
should be changed to deny citizenship to children born on U.S. soil if their
parents are illegal immigrants.

From the left and right, politicians sense an anti-immigration ground swell
among the electorate, and they are responding by taking tough stances on illegal
immigrants.

``I consider it to be the emerging issue of the 1990s,'' said Rep. Lamar Smith
of Texas, chairman of a House Republican task force on illegal immigration.
``The American people have focused on it now. They realize the adverse economic
consequences. Illegal immigration is costing taxpayers' dollars and workers'
jobs.''

There are about 4 million ``undocumented immigrants'' in the United States,
nearly half of them in California, according to Census Bureau estimates. Florida
has about 137,000, ranking fifth among the states, the bureau says.

Last year, the nationwide public cost of these illegal immigrants included $3.9
billion for education, $6.9 billion in assistance to displaced American workers
and $820 million in Aid to Families with Dependent Children, according to a
study by Rice University Professor Don Huddle.

As the economy sputters and Americans worry about their jobs, activists for
refugees are wary of how voters' anger and resentment will be played out in
upcoming election campaigns.

Some of the anti-immigration rhetoric ``borders on demagoguery,'' said Frank
Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum.

``Our worst fear is that politicians of both parties will try to exploit this,''
said Jack Fredriksson, Washington director of the Lutheran Immigration and
Refugee Service. ``You're dealing with a constituency that's outside of the
normal political system. They're easy targets if people want to go after them.''

Fredriksson warned of ``opportunistic interventions by politicians'' to turn
immigration into ``the wedge issue for 1994 and 1996 elections.''

Judging by the rising volume of political talk, his fear appears close to
becoming reality.

President Clinton has proposed spending $172.5 million to reinforce the Border
Patrol and to better screen out those fraudulently seeking asylum. ``The simple
fact is that we must not and we will not surrender our borders to those who wish
to exploit our history of compassion and justice,'' Clinton said this month.

Rep. Tom Lewis, R-North Palm Beach, is a member of the GOP House task force on
immigration. He has introduced legislation that would deport criminal illegal
immigrants immediately after their convictions, rather than waiting until after
they have completed their sentences.

``Taxpayers spend more than $800 million annually to hold over 50,000 criminal
aliens in our state and federal prison facilities, while we return other violent
criminals to our streets,'' he said in a prepared statement. ``This makes no
sense, especially for states like Florida suffering from severe prison
overcrowding.''

``Gov. Wilson is right, illegal immigration is bankrupting California, and it's
bankrupting Florida,'' says Rep. Harry Johnston, D-West Palm Beach. ``It borders
with health care as the biggest concern of my constituents, both rich and
poor.''

Immigrants scapegoats?

Critics warn that politicians are making illegal immigrants - mostly unskilled
workers from Mexico and Central America - into scapegoats for a sluggish economy
rather than trying to solve deeper and complex problems.

Politicians are quick to take a social issue - anything from unemployment to
education to drugs - and blame it on immigration, said Sharry.

In California, for instance, highly skilled jobs have been largely lost in the
lingering recession and these workers were not displaced by immigrants, said
Fredriksson. ``The typical undocumented alien is not an aerospace engineer.''

Advocates for the refugees point out that illegal immigrants do pay taxes if
they find jobs and that many politicians are quicker to blame undocumented
workers than the employers who hire them.

`Love-hate relationship'

``This country always has had sort of a love-hate relationship with immigrants,
especially as faceless statistics,'' Fredriksson explained. ``When things get
tough economically, there's an inclination to try to close the door.''

Indeed, immigration curbs were enacted during the Great Depression of the 1930s
when jobs were scarce.

The situation now is different, said Rep. John Linder, R-Ga. He said illegal
immigrants are not only taking jobs but are also draining public coffers because
they receive $5.4 billion in federal benefits a year, much of it legally.

A pregnant Mexican woman who crosses the border illegally cannot be legally
turned away at a public hospital in Los Angeles when she shows up to deliver her
baby, Linder explained. The infant is automatically an American citizen,
entitled to federal benefits such as Medicaid.

Linder is among the members of Congress calling for change in this system.

Lure of benefits

No one on Capitol Hill has been more active on illegal immigration than Smith,
the central Texas congressman who chairs the House Republican task force on the
issue.

Smith said a huge, two-pronged ``magnet pulls in illegal aliens - the lure of
government benefits and the availability of jobs.''

Legislation is needed to reduce both attractions, he said, and ``Republicans are
going to take the initiative'' this fall to introduce it.

However, Smith predicted that Democrats would be unwilling to reduce benefits
for illegal immigrants.

``It has the potential to be an issue to define the parties,'' he said.

Beefing up border patrol

The divisions are at least as geographic as they are partisan, however.

House Democrats from the five states with largest number of illegal immigrants -
California, Texas, Florida, New York and Illinois - voted for more Border Patrol
agents by a 2-1 margin, Smith said. But nationally, most Democrats voted against
these measures, which received nearly unanimous support from Republican members.

On a supplemental appropriations bill amendment, Florida Republicans Lewis and
E. Clay Shaw and Democrat Harry Johnston voted to provide an additional $60
million to the Immigration and Naturalization Service to increase the border
patrol. Democrat Alcee Hastings voted no. The amendment passed.

There was a more partisan split among Florida's House delegation on an amendment
to the National Service Act that would have required organizations to have
written policies stating that they do not provide services to illegal immigrants
in order to participate in the National Service program. Lewis and Shaw voted
for the amendment, while Democrats Johnston and Hastings voted against. The
amendment failed in the Democrat-controlled House.

HOSTILE BACKLASH

THERE ARE 4 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, nearly half in
California.

FLORIDA has about 137,000, fifth among the states.

ACCORDING TO a study released by Rice University, the net cost of illegal
immigrants to federal and state programs nationwide is $12.5 billion, after
subtracting the estimated taxes immigrants pay.

COSTS LAST YEAR

EDUCATION $3.9 billion

ASSISTANCE TO DISPLACED WORKERS $ 9 billion

AID TO FAMILIES $820 billion

POLITICIANS' PROPOSALS

Politicians in both parties have plenty of ideas how to stem the tide of illegal
immigrants. A sample:

PRESIDENT CLINTON,

Democrat:

Let immigration officials decide immediately whether an immigrant should be
deported or admitted for asylum proceedings.

GOV. PETE WILSON

of California, Republican:

Amend the Constitution to deny citizenship to children born on U.S. soil to
illegal immigrant parents.

SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN,

D-Calif.:

Impose a $1 toll at U.S.-Mexico border crossings and use the revenues to
reinforce the Border Patrol.

SEN. BARBARA BOXER,

D-Calif.:

Send California National Guard troops to patrol the border with Mexico.

REP. TOM LEWIS,

R-Fla.:

When illegal immigrants are convicted of a crime, deport them immediately
instead of waiting until they complete their sentences in American prisons.

REP. JACK KINGSTON,

R-Ga.:

Stop the payment of federal welfare and unemployment benefits to undocumented
immigrants.

REP. CHARLES SCHUMER,

D-N.Y.:

Set up U.S. inspection stations in foreign airports to screen fraudulent asylum
seekers and ease the load at domestic airports.

REP. LAMAR SMITH,

R-Texas, chairman of the Illegal Immigration Task Force set up by House
Republicans:

Provide tamper-proof employment cards to legal workers to cut use of fraudulent
documents by illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions. Info boxes at end of text.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 30, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS WANT JOBS, INS CHIEF SAYS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Displaying far more sympathy toward illegal immigrants than is politically
fashionable, the Clinton administration's new immigration chief rejected the
notion that foreigners crash the U.S. border in order to take advantage of
generous public services.

In a rebuke of politicians such as California Gov. Pete Wilson who have called
for eliminating many social services available to illegals, Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said most foreigners sneak
across the border for jobs and survival, not welfare.

``I don't think we should trivialize the reasons that people come and somehow
make them into sophisticated manipulators,'' Meissner said, talking to reporters
for the first time since being confirmed as INS chief. ``People come here
illegally to work. Others come illegally to stay alive, physically.''

Meissner, who was confirmed two weeks ago by the Senate, distanced herself from
the current anti-immigrant fervor as she spoke openly on a number of issues,
including her opposition to using the National Guard to patrol the border, her
reservations about a national identification card and her desire to humanize the
border patrol.

``You take El Salvadorans in the last decade,'' she said. ``It would take
Solomon to decide were they economic immigrants or were they political
immigrants. But they were not coming for health care. Guatemalans today are not
coming for SSI - they are coming to survive.''

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC:  San Francisco Chronicle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 14, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PUBLIC COST OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DISCUSSED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


The volume of immigrants treated at Miami's sprawling public hospital has
prompted a joke that Jackson Memorial Hospital is the only one in the country
with ``its own foreign policy,'' its administrator said.

The remarks by Jackson President Ira Clark came Saturday during a congressional
hearing on the public burden of illegal immigration.

U.S. Reps. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, Charles Canady, R-Lakeland and
Porter Goss, R-Sanibel, plan to use the information to present immigration
reform legislation.

``This is knitting that our country has failed to tend for a long time,'' Goss
said.

Jackson has admitted 26,000 undocumented immigrants and treated 6,000 as
outpatients at a cost of $300 million in three years. About one-quarter of the
births at Jackson are to undocumented aliens.

Memories linger of the 1980 Mariel boatlift, which brought more than 125,000
Cubans to South Florida.

``What you end up doing is kind of a battlefield situation: Who gets care for
what today?'' he said.

A new round of migration would stress the education system as well, said Bailey
Stewart of the Dade County public school system, which has nearly 17,000
undocumented students.

``All of our initiatives we currently have under way . . . would come to a
dramatic halt,'' Stewart said.

Regarding law enforcement costs, ``I can't even begin to put a price tag on
it,'' said Charles Barnes, chief of staff at the Broward County sheriff's
office.

A flood of refugees, feared as both the Cuban economy and Haitian politics
deteriorate, would bring an immediate problem with short-term housing and drug
trafficking.

``We have a drug problem now,'' Barnes said. ``One of the consequences is that
would be multiplied.''

The hearing was the last in a series on the issue of illegal immigration, and
reports on the sessions are expected in February.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (mug / Shaw, E. Clay)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 19, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

CREDIT CARD CROOKS MAKE AWAY WITH LOOT

BYLINE: EMANUEL HOWARD; Worth Magazine

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 657 words


Last month's credit card bill didn't arrive? Before cursing the mailman,
consider a more sinister possibility: The bill may have been diverted to a
Nigerian crook in any one of a dozen U.S. cities, and he could already be
milking the account for cash.

Law-enforcement officials say the credit card industry is under siege from a
loose network of Nigerian criminals entrenched in cities including New York,
Houston, Dallas, Atlanta, New Orleans, and Los Angeles.

The West Africans' sophistication and their ever-changing techniques are causing
big headaches for the Secret Service, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, and credit card issuers.

There's a trail of tears following Nigerians around the country,'' says John
Barker of the National Consumers League, a watchdog agency.

Nigerian officials angrily reject such talk as offensive and untrue, insisting
the majority of their citizens in the United States are law-abiding residents.
They assert many so-called Nigerian criminals are actually other West Africans
masquerading as Nigerians.

I am not saying we are angels,'' says lbrahim Lawal, immigration officer at the
Nigerian consulate in New York.  What I am saying is that the rate of people
committing crimes that U.S. authorities attribute to my country is not true.''

U.S. officials say the Nigerian crime wave is real - absolutely epidemic,''
according to one Secret Service agent. Law enforcement officials have arrested
more than 1,000 Nigerians since record keeping started in 1989, accounting for
10 percent of the fraud arrests made during that period by the Secret Service,
which heads a national task force formed to deal with West African crime.

Training is provided

The low-profile task force, which has members in 13 cities, has recovered nearly
$ 50 million in money stolen by Nigerians. But agents believe they've tracked
down only half the loot from the crimes they've solved. Much of the rest may
have been spirited out of the country.

According to task-force members, the Nigerian credit crooks are neither
hierarchical nor territorial but work in loose bands of three to 15. They
frustrate local police by shuttling between jurisdictions, keep meticulous
records, and share the details of their high-tech scams with members of other
cells.

According to several law officials, many train in special boarding schools'' in
New York, Houston, and Atlanta after arriving in the U.S. to make a living from
credit rip-offs.

The latest wrinkle in Nigerian fraud is the change-of-address scheme, the Secret
Service says. With just a person's name, the name of the financial institution
and an account number or Social Security number, it's easy to change the address
of any credit card account - and from there, to change the secret code number
that allows card users access to a cash machine.

By tapping the new information into a gadget that encodes the magnetic stripes
of old or fake cards, the outlaws create their own duplicate cards. A practiced
card shark with a fistful of fake cards can walk away from a cash machine with
more than $ 10,000.

Low-risk scheme pays well

Law officials say the crime is ingenious and nearly risk-free.  You've got to be
stupid to stick up a bank these days,'' says Anthony Migliaccio, a Secret
Service agent who has run the New York arm of the West African task force.

How many times do you walk away with a million dollars? Usually you get a couple
of thousand. But with this credit card fraud you go to one machine, kick the
card through a couple of times, and you've got $ 5,000. Nobody is hurt, nobody
is scared.''

The national task force is making some progress. Last year, agents in
Washington, D.C., arrested 40 people, mostly Nigerian, who were allegedly
working as credit bandits. Authorities think the crooks bagged as much as $ 10
million from thousands of accounts, in part through the change-of-address ruse.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              160 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 13, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

HOW AN UN-CIVIL AGENCY WENT FAR OUT OF CONTROL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 604 words


Say subpoena, and ordinary people get nervous. The U.S. Civil Rights Commission
thinks of subpoenas as ''a matter of practice.'' Maybe that's because the
federal agency is based in Washington, where ''my lawyer will call your lawyer''
passes as social intercourse.

The commission finally called off subpoenas issued to three South Floridians
with an interest in immigration policies. But the retreat bugle, in faxes late
Monday, didn't blow until The Post and The Washington Times printed articles,
U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, asked questions, and U.S. Rep. Charles
Canady, R-Lakeland, a member of the committee that oversees the commission,
called for hearings on the subpoenas.

The commission, an independent agency since 1957, investigates civil rights
issues and makes recommendations to the president and Congress. It may need
subpoena power to protect witnesses who want to talk but fear reprisals or to
unmask bogus ''citizens committees'' created by lobbyists for clients. But when
Sicilia Chinn of the commission called JoAnn Kern Peart of Delray Beach, she
reached an ordinary person. When Ms. Chinn mentioned a subpoena, Ms. Peart got
nervous.

The commission plans hearings Thursday and Friday in Miami. The hearings will
focus on immigrants' use of public benefits and on language policies. Ms. Peart
is co-founder of Floridians for Immigration Control. She says that when Ms.
Chinn asked her to testify, she stalled, and Ms. Chinn said, ''We can have you
subpoenaed.'' Ms. Peart says that's when she hung up. There were more phone
calls, but Ms. Peart felt the commission was hostile.

Finally, a U.S. marshal came with a subpoena in which Ms. Peart was
''commanded'' to appear in Miami with four categories of records. A follow-up
fax told her membership records were not part of the subpoena. Rob Ross, a
Pompano Beach attorney who runs FLA-187, and a Miami activist, Enos Schera, also
were subpoenaed. Floridians for Immigration Control has 275 members who write
letters favoring tougher immigration laws. Some members are helping FLA-187
collect signatures for a referendum like California's Proposition 187, which
banned social services, education and some public health services for illegal
immigrants.

Ms. Chinn did not return calls. A commission spokesman did. He called the
subpoena ''a routine tool. It assures that we can hold a hearing.'' He couldn't
explain why the commission felt a need to talk to Ms. Peart when she didn't want
to talk to the commission. Ms. Peart's group doesn't perform research; it
publicizes reports of groups such as the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which will be represented at the hearing. ''We need the Prop 187 view,''
the spokesman said.

That view isn't hard to find. A pollster reported this week that two-thirds of
Floridians favor such an amendment. Commissioners will hear the sentiment in an
open-microphone session Friday afternoon. They didn't need to send a marshal
after Ms. Peart.

In a fax calling off the subpoena, commission chairwoman Mary Frances Berry
said, ''You were subpoenaed only because the commission subpoenas all
witnesses.'' Ms. Berry said she learned from ''press accounts'' that Ms. Peart
didn't want to be a witness. Ms. Peart tried hard to tell the staff. The staff
should have told Ms. Berry.

She needs to find out why she was the last to hear. There's probably no
conspiracy here, just the dangerous arrogance that can infect bureaucracies.
We're in trouble if the civil rights commission uses subpoenas so casually that
it threatens the same rights the commission exists to protect.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              161 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 14, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CORRECTION

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 37 words


Because of incorrect information supplied by the State Attorney's Office, a
story in the July 12 Palm Beach Post incorrectly described the immigration
status of Mario Rene Rodas, 30. Rodas faces a deportation hearing.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              162 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 26, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PROTECTIVE STATUS STUDIED FOR HAITIANS

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 840 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Clinton administration is considering paroling all Haitian refugees in

U.S. custody and granting legal "protective status" to thousands of other

Haitians seeking political asylum, both sides of a federal lawsuit revealed in
court Monday.

The new administration is giving "serious consideration" to ending the

indefinite and discriminatory detention of Haitians, said Ira Kurzban,

attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center, which sued the government 11 days

ago.

The government "wants to look at this with the possibility that these

matters can be settled," Assistant U.S. Attorney Dexter Lee told U.S.

District Judge Kevin Michael Moore in a hearing Monday.

For 12 years, Haitian advocates have unsuccessfully taken the Reagan and

Bush administrations to court, seeking the release of Haitian detainees and a
more equitable political asylum process. The most recent lawsuit is the first
against a Democratic administration.

Lee and Kurzban told the judge that settlement talks on several of the

lawsuit's demands are moving forward. Another hearing has been set for next

week. The government has agreed to suspend deportation proceedings against

more than 500 Haitians transferred from South Florida to facilities in

Louisiana, Texas and northern Florida. Federal officials could not immediately
say what it would cost to transport the refugees.

10,000 ARE SEEKING ASYLUM

The Haitians will be bused to South Florida, where they will be given legal
counsel by the refugee center and allowed to apply for political asylum, Lee

said. They will then be bused back to their current facilities to await word

on their status. The suit claims these Haitians are being denied free legal

help by being transferred to remote areas.

Lee told the judge that the new administration is also considering giving

all Haitians in this country "temporary protective status," a designation

usually given by the attorney general which would virtually halt all

deportation proceedings for a period of one year to 18 months.

About 10,000 Haitians in the U.S. are seeking political asylum.

One obvious holdup to resolving this issue is the absence of a U.S. attorney
general, Kurzban said. Clinton is considering candidates for the post after

lawyer Zoe Baird removed her name from consideration last week.

The lawsuit's most sweeping demand is for the government to end the

"discriminatory" and "racist" treatment of hundreds of Haitian

detainees in South Florida and elsewhere. Kurzban argued Monday that Haitian

detainees should be given the same consideration as Cuban refugees, who are

immediately paroled over to relatives or advocacy groups and allowed to become
permanent residents after a year.

Before taking office, Clinton announced he would continue the Bush policy of
summarily repatriating Haitian boat people. Meanwhile, U.S. Coast Guard

vessels have established a virtual barricade around Haiti to prevent a massive
exodus to South Florida. The strategy has, thus far, apparently helped

dissuade Haitians from fleeing.

Kurzban said the government has the option of granting the protective status
only to Haitians already in the United States. The temporary status would most
likely be in effect until the administration and international diplomats can

restore to power Haiti's democratically elected president, Jean-Bertrand

Aristide, who was ousted from power in September 1991 by military leaders.

108 REFUGEES ARE RETURNED

Haiti's army-backed Prime Minister Marc Bazin has agreed to permit U.N.

civilian observers into the country and to enter negotiations with Aristide.

The move is considered a key step toward reinstating democracy. Army support

for the observer mission has been in doubt.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Coast Guard returned 108 Haitian refugees to their

country Monday after intercepting them crowded in a small sailboat at sea.

CURRENT POLICY

Haitians stopped at sea are returned to their homeland without being granted an
initial interview by U.S. immigration officials.

Haitians who reach U.S. shores are usually detained for indefinite periods of
time. Then:

* THEY ARE interviewed by an attorney for the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service to determine if they have a well-founded fear of

persecution if returned to Haiti.

* THOSE considered candidates for political asylum may be paroled over to

relatives or advocacy groups, but their release sometimes is mired in

bureaucracy and may take months.

* THOSE considered strictly "economic refugees" are usually detained for

longer periods of time until their deportation hearings are scheduled.

NEW PROPOSAL

To resolve a federal lawsuit, the Clinton Administration is considering:

* PAROLING all Haitian detainees while their political asylum applications

are processed. There are 600-700 detainees.

* HALTING all deportation proceedings for thousands of Haitian refugees for a
certain period of time.

* GRANTING all Haitians-- about 10,000 in the U.S. seeking political asylum --
"temporary protective status," which may last for up to 18 months. It

is not certain whether the status will apply to Haitians who reach the U.S. in
the future.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 24, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN RESCUED FROM RAFT SUSPECT IN 1980 HIJACKING

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 375 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


To the Coast Guard, Elvis Rafael Fonseca Machado was just another freedom-

seeking Cuban rafter who was spotted with five companions in the waters off

Key West.

That is, until immigration officials checked into his background Tuesday, and
threw Fonseca in jail on air-piracy charges.

"He gave INS his true identity," said Paul Miller, FBI spokesman in

Miami.

It turned out that Fonseca was wanted by federal officials on charges of

hijacking a Miami-to-San Juan flight to Cuba on Aug. 14, 1980. Officials say

Fonseca and an accomplice poured gasoline on some of the 211 passengers on

National Airlines flight 872 and threatened to set the cabin on fire. No one

was hurt in the hijacking.

U.S. Magistrate Hugh Morgan Wednesday ordered Fonseca, 46, held on $1

million bond in a Key West jail, Miller said. Next month, Fonseca will get a

hearing to determine if he should be sent to Puerto Rico, where U.S. air-

piracy charges were filed on Nov. 2, 1981.

Fonseca had arrived in South Florida during the Mariel Boatlift in the

spring of 1980. The National flight was diverted to Cuba during a rash of

hijackings by homesick Cubans that summer.

The hijackings abated after Cuban leader Fidel Castro warned that anyone

who went to Florida in the boatlift would face severe punishment if they

commandeered planes back to Cuba.

Cuban authorities arrested Fonseca and his accomplice, Jose Garcia

Sanchez, after they arrived in Havana in the hijacked plane.

Federal Aviation Administration records show that Fonseca was later

sentenced to five years in a Cuban prison and Garcia was given four years.

Garcia is believed to be living in Cuba.

Early Tuesday, Fonseca and his five fellow rafters were spotted by Cuban

exiles aboard a small plane. The exiles, who call themselves Brothers to the

Rescue, routinely patrol the Florida Straits, where 988 Cuban rafters have

been rescued so far this year.

The group alerted the Coast Guard, which picked up the six rafters and

took them to Key West, where they were turned over to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Then, during routine questioning, an immigration inspector ran Fonseca's

name through a national computer that stores information on fugitives. To his
surprise, he found the nearly 12-year-old warrant for Fonseca's arrest.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 12, 1992 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OKEELANTA TO PAY U.S. WORKERS $247,000

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 460 words


The Okeelanta Corp. will pay $247,000 to U.S. workers who filed a lawsuit

alleging the sugar company discriminated against them for two seasons in favor
of foreign workers brought in from the West Indies.

The company, which still maintains it did not violate the law, also will

pay about $133,000 in fines to the U.S. Department of Labor to settle similar
charges. The Labor Department initially fined Okeelanta twice that amount.

About 1,500 workers could benefit from the agreement, said Rob Williams, a
Florida Rural Legal Services attorney who represented the workers.

The lawsuit, which was granted class-action status in federal court last

year, alleged that during the 1987-88 and 1988-89 seasons Okeelanta

discriminated against domestic workers by failing to offer them the same terms
and conditions of employment that were offered to "H-2 workers"-- temporary

foreign workers brought in for the season.

It also claimed that domestic sugar cane planters were illegally dismissed and
replaced with foreign H-2 workers.

Under the law, employers are forbidden from using H-2 workers in jobs for which
domestic workers are available. They also must offer domestic workers

the same wages and benefits as temporary foreign workers.

The 1987-88 season marked the first time in more than 20 years that H-2

workers were used to plant sugar cane. Previously, the foreign workers were

used only to harvest the crop.

After the lawsuits were filed, Okeelanta halted use of foreign workers in its
planting operations. All of the sugar companies in the Glades, including

Okeelanta, now use H-2 workers primarily to cut cane.

"But if we hadn't stopped them with this suit, all the companies would

now be using H-2 workers to plant cane," Williams said.

The lawsuit charged that domestic sugar cane planters were never given a

copy of the job clearance order that describes the terms of employment. It

also said the company failed to pay domestic planters for three-quarters of

the work period they were guaranteed by the contract-- a guarantee afforded

foreign workers.

The Fanjul family-owned sugar company, with headquarters in Palm Beach,

also did not provide domestic workers with accurate wage statements reflecting
the number of hours they worked, and failed to pay U.S. workers the bonuses

awarded H-2 workers, according to the complaint, which was filed in 1989 in

federal court in Miami.

Okeelanta spokesman Jorge Dominicis stressed that the company chose to

settle the suit despite its belief that it has not violated the law.

"The time and expense involved in bringing the case to trial, including a
probable appeals process, would have been disruptive for the company," he

said.

The workers have until Nov. 15 to file claims. The $247,000 will be divided up
and paid to them by Christmas.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 19, 1992 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUGAR CO-OP TO END HAND HARVESTING

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 685 words


The Sugar Cane Growers Cooperative of Florida will harvest its entire crop

by machine next season, eliminating the need to import foreign cane cutters

from the West Indies.

The 51-member co-op, which in April ended its 30th season, had been

rapidly increasing its mechanical harvesting operation since the late 1980s.

But the South Florida sugar producer had not anticipated phasing out hand-

harvesting for at least another year.

The decision to go 100 percent mechanical was prompted in part by

increased costs associated with the program that permits the sugar companies

to import foreign workers to cut cane, the co-op said.

It was accelerated, he said, by major improvements in mechanical

harvesting techniques, the results of which became visible last season when

the co-op's cane yielded a record amount of raw sugar.

"The excellent results demonstrated with last year's crop at 81 percent

mechanical harvest proved the viability of moving to 100 percent sooner than

originally anticipated," co-op President George Wedgworth said.

The federal H-2A program, which allows growers to import foreign workers

to do seasonal labor, has come under increased scrutiny in recent years.

Labor advocates have charged the companies with underpaying workers, and

the U.S. Department of Labor has-- under pressure from advocates and members

of Congress-- increased enforcement of laws regulating the program.

"The continuous unfounded legal hassles associated with the labor program have
increased the cost of hand harvesting to a point where if we are to be

good stewards of our growers' assets, we have no choice but to move to

mechanical harvesting," Wedgworth said.

Within the past year, the Labor Department has ordered the companies to

pay transportation expenses for workers from all the Caribbean islands-- not

just from Jamaica, as had been the practice.

The federal government also has expressed concern about the disappearance of
workers' savings and raised questions about insurance coverage. The state

of Florida is investigating the method by which the companies calculate

workers compensation claims.

"Now that the companies are required to pay workers sums that approach

what the law requires, the costs are too high," said Greg Schell, an attorney
with Florida Rural Legal Services.

But the increased costs of compliance did not by themselves force the

shift, he said.

"They've made a quantum leap in the technology of mechanical harvesting

so the costs associated with the machines are no longer much different from

the costs of harvesting by hand," he said.

To curb problems with the extra leaves and non-sugar matter harvested by

the machinery, the co-op made improvements to its mill and its equipment,

offsetting sugar losses, said Barbara Miedema, spokeswoman for the co-op.

The Belle Glade-based co-op employed 470 of the 7,500 workers who came to South
Florida from the Caribbean islands last season -- significantly fewer

than U.S. Sugar Corp. and the companies owned and controlled by the Fanjul

family of Palm Beach.

But U.S. Sugar has said its harvesting operation may become 100 percent

mechanized by 1995, and the Fanjul-owned companies also have been buying more
mechanical harvesters and reducing their H-2A labor force.

Talisman Sugar, the only other company that harvests all of its cane with
machines, went 100 percent mechanical in 1973 following a season of labor

unrest.

Jamaican officials were not surprised by the co-op's decision.

"If the rate of mechanization continues at this pace, in less than five

years no West Indian workers will be cutting sugar cane in the U.S.," Tony

Irons, Jamaica's permanent secretary of labor, said from his office in

Kingston.

But he said the West Indian governments have been cooperating with the

sugar companies and have made changes in their administration of the labor

program when requested.

"I think all the problems can be worked out, so I do not believe the

other sugar companies will have reason to follow the co-op's path to full

mechanization," he said.

Schell disagreed.

"This is a trend-- whether we like it or not," the Legal Services

attorney said. "It eventually will happen to everybody."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 2, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUGAR COMPANY TO APPEAL HIRING BAN

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 751 words


The U.S. Department of Labor said it would prohibit the Okeelanta Corp.

from hiring foreign workers for the upcoming harvest, but the sugar company

said Wednesday it would appeal the ruling, leaving the door open for at least
one more season of hand-harvested cane.

"If they appeal the decision, they will be eligible to hire foreign

workers while that appeal is pending," said Labor Department spokeswoman

Eaton Lynn.

In a June 24 letter from the Labor Department's regional administrator in
Atlanta, the Fanjul family owned company was informed that a recently

completed investigation of the 1986-87 harvest season concluded the company

violated a number of regulations and would therefore be "ineligible to apply

for labor certification for the coming year."

Without certification, the company is barred from participating in the

federal government's H-2A foreign worker program.

The investigation of the 1986-87 season was conducted in response to a

complaint by Florida Rural Legal Services alleging minimum wage violations. It
was prompted by a November 1986 labor dispute over wages that resulted in 353
cane cutters being sent home. The men were rounded up by company officials,

police and their dogs in a confrontation workers still refer to as "the dog

war."

Since the 1940s, South Florida sugar companies each year have imported

thousands of cane cutters

from the West Indies. Last season, Okeelanta hired between 1,650 and 1,700

men. The company has increased mechanization and intended to bring in about

1,000 for the coming season.

During the 1986-87 season, Okeelanta employed 2,250 workers.

From its investigation, the Labor Department concluded that Okeelanta:

* Failed to keep accurate records of the hours cane cutters worked;

* Failed to supplement each worker's pay so his earnings were at least

equal to the required minimum contracted wage of $5.30 an hour;

* Failed to keep an accurate record of payroll deductions; and

* Failed to furnish workers with written statements of the hours they

worked on or before each payday.

Calling the decision "politically motivated," Okeelanta's general

counsel, Joe Klock, denied the charges and questioned the Labor Department's

ability to bring them six years later.

"The statute of limitations has run," he said. "This is simply a desire

by the secretary of Labor to appear tough."

Klock also said the Labor Department told the company in April it could

either pay $600,000 in back wages owed workers for the 1986 season or have its
certification to hire workers this season denied.

"That's extortion," he said.

The Labor Department did not confirm that paying back wages would resolve the
dispute, nor did it specify how much money would be required. But Lynn did say
there are ways Okeelanta could settle with the Department without

proceeding through the appeals process.

Klock further argued that an earlier investigation of the 1986-87 season

found the company had not violated applicable labor department regulations.

The six-year Labor Department investigation that resulted in the decision to
deny Okeelanta the right to hire workers this season was based on a review of
payroll records, interviews with workers, statements by company

representatives and information provided by other interested parties, the June
24 letter said.

"They should have been decertified years ago," said Greg Schell, an

attorney with Florida Rural Legal Services.

An initial investigation of the 1986-87 season, concluded in early 1987,

arrived at most of the same conclusions reached this year. But no action was

taken until the Department began feeling pressure from Congress, Schell said. A
House Education and Labor Committee report issued last year blasted the
department for its lax enforcement of the foreign worker program in the sugar
industry. In that report, the committee specifically criticized the department
for failing to require that back wages be paid to workers in the 1986-87

season.

The sugar companies are trying to fully mechanize their harvests as

quickly as possible to stave off further criticism of their labor practices.

Mechanical harvesting has become more economical in recent years.

Rob Williams, the Florida Rural Legal Services attorney who filed the

complaint that prompted Labor's investigation, said it would be unfortunate if
sugar's foreign worker program ends, putting the men who depend on cane-

cutting jobs out of work.

"But if it ends," he said, "it's the companies' fault. All we ever

asked was for the program to run legally so the men would get what they're

entitled to."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 2, 1992 Thursday
                            LAKE OKEECHOBEE EDITION

OKEELANTA TO APPEAL BAN ON FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 745 words


The U.S. Department of Labor said it would prohibit the Okeelanta Corp.

from hiring foreign workers for the coming harvest, but the sugar company

said Wednesday it would appeal the ruling, leaving the door open for at least
one more season of hand-harvested cane.

"If they appeal the decision, they will be eligible to hire foreign

workers while that appeal is pending," said Labor Department spokeswoman

Eaton Lynn.

In a June 24 letter from the Labor Department's regional administrator in
Atlanta, the Fanjul family-owned company was informed that a recently

completed investigation of the 1986-87 harvest season concluded the company

violated a number of regulations and would therefore be "ineligible to apply

for labor certification for the coming year."

Without certification, the company is barred from participating in the

federal government's H-2A foreign worker program.

The investigation of the 1986-87 season was conducted in response to a

complaint by Florida Rural Legal Services alleging minimum wage violations.

The complaint was prompted by a November 1986 labor dispute over wages that

resulted in 353 cane cutters being sent home. The men were rounded up by

company officials, police and their dogs in an ugly confrontation workers

still refer to as "the dog war."

Since the 1940s, South Florida sugar companies each year have imported

thousands of cane cutters from the West Indies. Last season, Okeelanta hired

between 1,650 and 1,700 men. The company has increased mechanization and

intended to bring in about 1,000 for the coming season.

During the 1986-87 season, Okeelanta employed 2,250 workers.

From its investigation, the Labor Department concluded that Okeelanta:

* Failed to keep accurate records of the hours cane cutters worked;

* Failed to supplement each worker's pay so his earnings were at least

equal to the required minimum contracted wage of $5.30 an hour;

* Failed to keep an accurate record of payroll deductions;

* Failed to furnish workers with written statements of the hours they

worked on or before each payday.

OKEELANTA DENIES CHARGES

Calling the decision "politically motivated," Okeelanta's general

counsel, Joe Klock, denied the charges and questioned the Labor Department's

ability to bring them six years later.

"The statute of limitations has run," he said. "This is simply a desire

by the secretary of Labor to appear tough."

Klock also said the Labor Department told the company in April it could

either pay $600,000 in back wages owed to workers for the 1986 season or have
its certification to hire workers this season denied.

"That's extortion," he said.

The Labor Department did not confirm that paying back wages would resolve the
dispute, nor did it specify how much money would be required. But Lynn did say
there are ways Okeelanta could settle with the department without going

through the appeals process.

Klock also argued that an earlier investigation of the 1986-87 season

found the company had not violated applicable labor department regulations.

The six-year Labor Department investigation was based on a review of

payroll records, interviews with workers, statements by company

representatives and information provided by other interested parties, the June
24 letter said.

"They should have been decertified years ago," said Greg Schell, an

attorney with Florida Rural Legal Services.

PRESSURE FROM CONGRESS

An initial investigation of the 1986-87 season, concluded in early 1987,

arrived at most of the same conclusions reached this year. But no action was

taken until the department began feeling pressure from Congress, Schell said. A
House Education and Labor Committee report issued last year blasted the
department for its lax enforcement of the foreign worker program in the sugar
industry. In that report, the committee specifically criticized the department
for failing to require that back wages be paid to workers in the 1986-87

season.

The sugar companies are trying to fully mechanize their harvests as

quickly as possible to stave off further criticism of their labor practices.

Mechanical harvesting has become more economical in recent years.

Rob Williams, the Florida Rural Legal Services attorney who filed the

complaint that prompted Labor's investigation, said it would be unfortunate if
sugar's foreign worker program ends, putting the men who depend on cane-

cutting jobs out of work.

"But if it ends," he said, "it's the companies' fault. All we ever

asked was for the program to run legally so the men would get what they're

entitled to."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 27, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

POST CONTRADICTING ITSELF IN JUDGMENT OF U.S. SUGAR

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1284 words


ANovember 1991 Post editorial, "Sugar company changes made of the right

stuff," praised U.S. Sugar Corp. for seeking a federal audit of its policies

toward guest workers and for installing an electronic timekeeping system.

In February, Post senior editorial writer Bill McGoun's column "The

refinement of U.S. Sugar" reported that "the firm has opened up its harvest

to reporters, has instituted an electronic time-clock system and has

negotiated with the Jamaican government changes in a questionable tax

withholding system. A recent `debate' on public television between (company

senior vice president) Robert Buker and Florida Rural Legal Services attorney
Greg Schell turned into more of a mutual admiration session than anything

else."

How, then, could The Post on July 21 conclude that the company's concern

for guest workers is "sudden" and that it "for decades abused foreign

workers and resisted reforms"?

Cutting cane is hard work anywhere. Florida fields are popular with

Jamaican workers because we pay well and provide protective gear, medical care
and other benefits. It is hard to believe that The Post would sacrifice these
men's upward mobility merely to punish the sugar industry for its political

incorrectness on other issues.

James E. Terrill, executive vice president

U.S. Sugar Corp.

Clewiston

PUPIL RATIO NOT SAME AS CLASS SIZE

The recent article "Proposed schools budget: lower taxes, bigger

classes" perpetuated an error that makes it difficult for principals to

communicate the actual effect of recent budget cuts on the classroom. It

stated that class size in the senior high would go from 25.5 to 29.5. It is

important for parents to understand that the change is in pupil/teacher ratio,
not class size. Because high school students take seven classes and teachers

teach five classes, the pupil/teacher ratio and average class size are never

the same.

At Atlantic High School, our average class size in regular classes,

including advanced classes, will be approximately 37 based on the recommended
alteration in pupil/teacher ratio.

Our teachers will do their best with large classes, just as they do now,

but it is important for parents to realize that their sons and daughters will be
in some classes of 37 to 40, not 29.5.

The Southern Regional Accreditation Association requires that each teacher have
no more than 150 students. Most teachers in our regular programs will

have more than 180 students.

Carole R. Shetler, principal

Atlantic Community High School

Delray Beach

$38 MILLION EXPLANATION IN ORDER

About the Palm Beach County audit reported July 21: How did our esteemed

commissioners and budget officers, out of the blue, find a $38 million

stockpile of tax money that was hidden?

As a taxpayer and property owner, I am entitled to an explanation from the
county commissioners.

Sidney Aronchick

West Palm Beach

SYNAGOGUE POLICIES ARE REASONABLE

Regarding the recent story by Lois Kaplan, "The high cost of Jewish

living":

I belong to a synagogue that does not require membership dues in order to go to
services (including High Holy Days services). Members contribute

whatever they can because they care.

Sure the congregation has fund-raising affairs, but one has a choice

whether to go. Participation in Lubavitch does not depend on high membership

fees.

Ruth Epstein

West Palm Beach

BUSH BLUNDER NO. 3: DEPOSING SHAMIR

The Neville Chamberlain award should go to President Bush for sending

Secretary of State James Baker to Israel. He wasn't satisfied with tumbling

down the government of Yitzhak Shamir-- now he wants to make sure Yitzhak

Rabin appeases the Arab world before we guarantee the loan.

History will note Mr. Bush's three biggest blunders: ruining our economy,
leaving Saddam Hussein in power and removing Yitzhak Shamir.

Morris Assael

Boynton Beach

BOND LEFT OUT A FEW FACTS ON CLINTON

I listened to Republican National Committee Chairman Rich Bond answer

questions by John McLaughlin of One on One. About Gov. Bill Clinton, Mr. Bond
charged that Arkansas is virtually a wasteland. "It is 41st in this . . . and
47th in that. In every category of human life, Arkansas was last or close to

it," Mr. Bond said.

But Mr. McLaughlin is a Republican and didn't question Mr. Bond further.

He didn't ask how all U.S. governors, Republican and Democrat, voted Mr.

Clinton the best governor in the United States. Nor did he question Mr. Bond

about how Bill Clinton balanced 11 budgets in a row.

Elena Isabel Passerman

West Palm Beach

`CONSERVATIVE' IS THE DIRTY WORD

Vote for Gov. Bill Clinton. I am more than 70 years old and have never

seen a Republican president since Calvin Coolidge who did anything. We need a
man who's middle of the road.

Conservative is the dirty word. The poor get poorer and the rich get

richer, always.

K. Rhodes

Port St. Lucie

CLINTON-GORE DEFEND FREEDOM FOR ALL

As a schoolchild and now as a septuagenarian, I have pledged allegiance to the
American flag and am aware of the responsibility inherent in this

privilege.

Freedom is a liberal concept, the foundation of the American spirit. It is
important to choose candidates we can trust to ensure freedom for all instead of
only for the few.

We are blessed with Bill Clinton and Al Gore, men inspired with the

American spirit who have the know-how and energy to lead us.

Jewel Richman

Delray Beach

LAWSUITS RUINED CANE CUTTERS' FUTURE

In your recent article on the Florida Rural Legal Service ("Agency wages

war for workers"), you portrayed Greg Schell, a senior attorney, to be a hero
for the Jamaican sugar-cane cutters. Mr. Schell and people like him have

destroyed the dreams of these people. Now these cutters will not have jobs to
come to next year because of lawsuits brought by the legal service.

Charles Miller

Clewiston

ENOUGH CHEAP SHOTS AT BLUDWORTH

The recent negative articles on David Bludworth are just irrelevant cheap shots.
Mr. Bludworth already has announced he will not be a candidate in the

upcoming election. Your publication is beginning to resemble a mullet wrapper
rather than a newspaper.

Mark R. Hanson

Belle Glade

VOTE YOUR CONSCIENCE, NOT IN BLOCS

Certain retirement communities continue to practice bloc voting. The

criteria of endorsement include political party, religion and even ethnicity.
Palm Beach County School Board elections are non-partisan, so party should not
be a qualification.

Who attends School Board meetings? Who visits local schools and learns the
problems? Who has high expectations for students, monitoring the pulse of

national initiatives to improve education? Who supports our superintendent,

Dr. Monica Uhlhorn, who has a proven record of school improvement as well as a
belief that "every child can learn"?

Please don't vote like sheep. School Board elections are being held

hostage to power brokers, who are not concerned with education and students.

Cheryl Onorato

Tequesta

REPLACE OVERPAID SCHOOL BUREAUCRATS

Regarding the school district mess:

The bureaucratic deadbeats who shamelessly take between $70,000 and

$90,000 annually from an impoverished Palm Beach County school system should

be replaced with young college graduates, who will work for half the amount.

This will also keep them from leaving the state in droves.

Jack Lean

West Palm Beach

ORIGIN OF HUCK'S VOICE IRRELEVANT

Regarding your Accent article "Scholar: Twain gave black voice to Huck

Finn": Who really cares whether Huck Finn's voice was African-American,

German-American, Italian-American, French-American, Haitian-American or

whatever? Isn't it enough to be a citizen of this great country, to be an

American?

It was enough for the millions of immigrants and all those fortunate

enough to be born here. My great-grandparents came here on a boat. They were

proud to be Americans. There is no room in this country for hyphenated

Americanism.

Jean M. Rosier

Port St. Lucie\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/MUG/SHAMIR, YITZHAK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 28, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SEED OF A NEW ATTITUDE?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 380 words


Unless U.S. Sugar Corp.' s new pay policy for workers seeds a new sense of

responsibility in Florida agriculture, there won't be any widespread

improvement in the treatment of workers throughout the state.

The decision by the Clewiston company, the state's largest sugar producer, to
pay cane cutters by the amount they cut stemmed from problems affecting

foreign workers under the federal H2-A program. But the company will also

include men and women who work in U.S. Sugar's extensive vegetable and citrus
operations in Palm Beach and Hendry counties. In other parts of Florida,

vegetable and citrus workers often face worse problems than cane cutters,

usually because they are migrant workers who have even less protection than

the West Indian sugar cane workers.

U.S. Sugar's lead, however, hasn't been followed by the Florida Fruit and
Vegetable Association. Closer to home, more progress has been made by the

area's second-largest sugar grower, Flo-Sun, parent company of the Fanjul

operations. Flo-Sun has improved access to barracks and installed an improved
timekeeping system, as has U.S. Sugar. But Flo-Sun will not implement U.S.

Sugar's policy, which pays cutters by the ton instead of on a formula set up

by the company.

Flo-Sun Vice President George Domenicis says: "U.S. Sugar has made a bold move,
and we congratulate them. But even though they may be paying more per

ton than we are, our pay is very competitive. The work varies from field to

field, depending on how hard the cane is to cut. We worry that we may overpay
some workers and underpay some others. But we think that at the end of the

season, our workers will go back to Jamaica with the same amount of money as

the ones at U.S. Sugar."

Mr. Domenicis says Flo-Sun's position "isn't based on intransigence. The

land where we grow cane isn't the same as U.S. Sugar's land." The company

plans to meet with the same Florida Rural Legal Services attorneys who struck
the deal with U.S. Sugar. Mr. Domenicis also talked about the idea of the two
companies comparing pay schedules after this harvest. That ought to be the

least Flo-Sun does if officials aren't going to change the pay policy.

Since farmworkers have few allies in the Legislature, change needs to come from
within the industry. Celebrate a new day, not the old way.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EDITORIAL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

            September 28, 1994, WEDNESDAY, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

TAX PREPARER CHARGED WITH CONNING MIGRANTS

BYLINE: SUSANNAH A. NESMITH; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


A Fort Pierce tax preparer was arrested Monday on charges she conned 12
low-income migrant workers out of more than $ 24,000 by telling them she'd help
them fix problems with improperly filed income tax forms.

Arlene Diaz, 37, charged her victims for her services as a tax preparer and on
top of those fees, convinced them to give her money they owed the Internal
Revenue Service, court documents say.

According to documents, she told the workers she would make their payments. She
also offered to file new tax forms, immigration forms and in one case a mortgage
application for her victims - none of which ever was filed despite the thousands
of dollars she received, documents say.

''A friend of a friend gave me Arlene's phone number,'' Ofelia Gamez said
Tuesday.

''I trusted her so much because she would explain all the papers to me that I
didn't understand.''

Gamez and her husband, Jorge, first went to Diaz in December 1992 when they
discovered they'd filled out their income tax returns wrong for three years in a
row, she said. They had filed separately when they should have filed as a
married couple.

Diaz agreed to file an amended return for the couple for $ 1,100, Ofelia Gamez
said.

The couple began giving Diaz money they thought she was forwarding to the IRS,
she said.

They also took friends and family members to see Diaz when they had similar
problems.

In June 1993, Diaz began working in the office of Gulliver and Associates Income
Tax Service, according to court documents.

While she worked at the office, she took money from 19 clients to prepare their
taxes but never filed the paperwork, according to court documents.

When executives at Gulliver and Associates began receiving complaints from their
clients, they did an audit, and Diaz was fired. Other employees at the service
then filed the tax forms for the clients.

But Ofelia Gamez and the other victims were not clients of the service and are
afraid they've lost their money forever.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              171 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 10, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. SUGAR TO PAY $ 87,000 TO WORKERS

BYLINE: LISA SHUCHMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 628 words


The United States Sugar Corp. has agreed to pay about $ 59,000 to more than
4,000 cane cutters for tasks the workers performed on their own time.

The company will also pay $ 28,000 to workers from the lower Caribbean islands,
such as St. Lucia and St. Vincent, for transportation costs they were required
to pay out of their own pockets.

The payments will be made as part of a settlement reached with the U.S.
Department of Labor. The agency conducted a two-year investigation of how the
company operates under the H-2A program, a federal program that allows
agricultural companies to hire foreign ''guest'' workers when they have shown
sufficient domestic workers cannot be found.

U.S. Sugar had actually requested the investigation in 1991, hoping the scrutiny
would bring the company into full compliance with the law and put to rest years
of accusations that it was cheating the foreign workers it brought in for the
harvest each fall.

The same year, the company initiated an ''Open Harvest'' in which it invited the
public to scrutinize its operations, and the following year reached a ''labor
peace'' with Florida Rural Legal Services, the farm worker advocacy group that
had represented countless workers in lawsuits against the company.

In the peace accord, the company and Legal Services agreed to work together to
try to resolve problems and disputes out of court. In contrast, the sugar
companies owned by the Fanjul family of Palm Beach and the Sugar Growers
Cooperative of Florida chose to abandon the foreign worker program and have
resorted to fully mechanical harvests.

Meanwhile, the Labor Department still had not informed U.S. Sugar of any
conclusions reached in its audit of the company.

Under the labor peace, however, U.S. Sugar decided in 1992 to reimburse cane
cutters from the lower Caribbean islands for travel expenses they had incurred.
The other companies later paid as well, but only after they had been sued.

U.S. Sugar and farm worker advocates also resolved wage disputes over payment
for time spent sharpening cane knives and cleaning equipment.

But the Labor Department, which had itself come under fire in a congressional
report for failing to enforce labor laws and protect the employment rights and
wages of foreign workers in the sugar industry, refused to approve any of these
settlements.

In the agreement reached this week, the Labor Department said it found in its
investigation that workers had spent time sharpening cane knives when they were
off duty and in their barracks and should be paid for their time. It also said
some workers cleaned their safety gloves and protective arm and leg shields at
the same time they were washing their work clothes and should be compensated for
that time as well.

U.S. Sugar said it was pleased that the investigation, which involved reviewing
employee records covering a two-year period, had turned up only a few relatively
minor concerns.

''We invited the scrutiny and we pledged to correct anything, however small,''
said company Senior Vice President Bob Buker.

But in requesting the investigation, Buker added, the company had hoped the
government would show it what it should do to be in compliance with the letter
and the spirit of the law. The process, however, moved too slowly.

''It seems that government is not set up to help businessescomply,'' he said.
''It is set up simply to enforce.''

Labor advocates also were critical of the government's action.

''After years of neglecting outrageous, major violations in the sugar industry,
the Department of Labor finally got religion and pursued a few things at a
nit-picking level,'' said Florida Legal Services attorney Rob Williams. ''I'm
not sure this is of any benefit to the workers.''

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              172 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 23, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

PROGRAMMERS: IBM'S FOREIGN WORKERS CUTTING BOCA JOBS

BYLINE: STEPHEN POUNDS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1301 words


Engineering groups are taking aim at a federal program that allows companies to
bring foreign software programmers to the United States, charging that companies
such as IBM in Boca Raton use it to cut jobs and the wages of American workers.

The H-1B visa program was created in 1990 for companies to import up to 65,000
temporary workers a year in specialty occupations such as computer programming.
Many of the programmers come from India, a country with a high concentration of
software engineers.

But engineering groups and corporations are in a high-stakes tug of war over the
program. The loss of American jobs is at one end; the drive to lower operating
costs at the other.

In the highly competitive computer industry, companies can save money by hiring
foreign programmers at lower pay, while eliminating benefits, pensions,
vacations and raises for a segment of their work force.

''They can outsource at a constant dollar. Otherwise they'd have to give raises
every six months to a year,'' said Joel Snyder, U.S. activities director for the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

Engineers say that is why the law needs reform.

The H-1B program works this way:

Businesses can bring temporary workers to the U.S. for three years. But they
must first certify that workers will be paid the prevailing wage and won't hurt
working conditions of U.S. workers. The businesses also must post in the
workplace the intention to hire foreign workers.

Former and current programmers at IBM and industry sources say International
Business Machines in Boca Raton violates two provisions of the law. It pays
foreign programmers far less than the prevailing wage and it denigrates the
working conditions of American software engineers.

One computer programmer, Bob Heath, who worked off and on for six years in Boca
Raton until he took a job in Houston two months ago, complained to the Labor
Department. But a department spokesperson said that no investigation is under
way at IBM's Boca Raton site.

IBM spokesman Alan Macher said the company employs 300 to 700 temporary
programmers at any time. But he was not sure how many were foreign workers.

He says IBM is following federal regulations no matter how many foreign
nationals it employs.

''We're in full compliance with the law. Our hiring is based on the skills we
need,'' Macher said. ''The number of foreign workers is a small percentage.''

Macher also said that third-party contractors control salary, not IBM.

''We contract for the work - it's a bid,'' he said.

IBM itself only obtained 10 H-1B visas for Boca Raton from 1992 to 1994, a Labor
Department spokesperson said. But a small Austin, Texas-based watchdog group,
the Software Professionals Political Action Committee, or SoftPac, and current
and former programmers maintain that the company employs many more by using
outside contractors to hire the foreign workers.

Finding the exact number -H-1B workers at a site and who brought them in is
difficult.

Three different Cabinet departments have a hand in issuing -H-1B visas - the
Labor, Justice and State departments.

The Labor Department takes applications for temporary worker positions and
investigates alleged violations, the State Department issues visas and the
Justice Department enforces the law.

SoftPac Executive Director Larry Richards obtained Labor Department applications
by one third-party contractor. Syntel Inc. of Troy, Mich., asked for 100 H-1B
worker positions at IBM's Boca Raton site from 1994 to 1997.

Another company, Tata Information Systems Ltd., applied for 33 H-1B slots from
1993 to 1994, said Richards, who quit his own job at IBM in Austin to form
SoftPac.

But he said he was unsure how many -H-1B workers Syntel or Tata eventually
placed at IBM. None of the departments keeps a breakdown of visas granted to
specific third-party contractors.

One IBM programmer said some software teams are made up entirely of foreign
workers.

''There are times when I wonder what country I'm in,'' he said. ''What IBM is
saying about temporary contractors is rubbish.''

Even if the government could come up with numbers on workers admitted at each
site, it wouldn't be a true picture. After specific projects are completed,
-H-1B workers often move to other companies, and sometimes to other states,
engineers said.

Macher and spokesmen for Tata and Syntel acknowledged IBM brings in foreign
nationals through third-party companies. No one could say how many, but all said
they strictly follow federal labor standards.

However, Syntel has been fined $ 117,000 in penalties and back wages for
violations at a New Jersey company. Tata was cited for failure to post H-1B
hirings and to keep correct payroll records in a Mobile, Ala., complaint. Both
citations came this year.

''Tata was not penalized because those were minor violations,'' said Tata's
Wilson. ''We pay prevailing wage.''

Syntel is negotiating with the Labor Department to drop the fines.

''They alleged that we were willful in paying below prevailing wage and we have
said, indeed, we have not, and we have showed them evidence. We don't underpay
our workers,'' said Jeff Ray, Syntel vice president of marketing.

But two professional organizations, the American Engineering Association and the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, also have heard complaints
about IBM paying -H-1B workers lower wages than regular programmers, as the law
requires.

''There have been a number of programmers who have been outright replaced by
people under -H-1B,-'' American Engineering Association President Bill Reed
said. ''We didn't have anybody who would stand up and say that this is
happening. They'd be blackballed.''

When Heath complained, the engineers institute called its members at the Boca
Raton facility.

IBM engineers claimed the temporary workers are being paid $ 30,000 to $ 40,000
a year compared to $ 40,000 to $ 60,000, the prevailing wage of a software
engineer, Snyder said.

Both engineers and employers have demanded -H-1B reform.

Congress is considering legislation that would exempt employers with small
numbers of -H-1B workers from posting hiring notices and from being subjected to
labor investigations unless there are complaints.

But it doesn't exempt companies with large numbers of temporary workers.

''Large companies are where all the abuses are,'' said one congressional aide.

Engineers can take solace in two provisions if they are approved.

One would make it unlawful to fire an American employee in the same job category
unless the company pays the -H-1B worker 110 percent of the American's wages.
The other would require companies to resubmit visa applications for workers
transferred to another site for more than 90 days.

Edith Holleman, a lobbyist for the American Engineering Association, said
engineers also hope to widen the definition of ''employer'' to encompass any
business arrangement that take jobs away from American workers, mainly
third-party labor contractors.

The reform package is being reviewed by the Subcommittee on Immigration and
Claims. A vote is expected this month.

Though the -H-1B program was aimed at filling a projected shortage of engineers
and scientists, the shortages haven't occurred, engineers said.

Some engineers have dubbed the practice of hiring low-paid foreign programmers
reverse brain drain.

They say if corporations continue to abuse the program, it could reduce the pool
of available programmers as Americans flee the profession, Snyder said.

Ultimately, it could diminish America's leadership role in software development,
one IBMer said.

''A lot of the stuff we're doing is leading-edge technology. This is being
learned by foreigners and being taken back home.''

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              173 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 7, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

CUPBOARDS BARE AT AREA SOUP KITCHENS - FOOD, CASH NEEDED

BYLINE: CHUCK McGINNESS; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: BOYNTON BEACH


More hungry mouths and less food. That unfortunate combination has left a group
of volunteers that feeds migrant workers in a bind.

The Soup Kitchen made an appeal Thursday for food and cash donations to provide
for the estimated 200 workers who receive free lunches five days a week.

The number of meals being served has nearly doubled from last year, probably
because more people know about the kitchen at Boynton Beach Boulevard and U.S.
441, said Sally Host, the group's president.

Ernesto Gonzalez, head of the Farmworker Coordinating Council of Palm Beach
County located across the street, said the desperate situation at the soup
kitchen does not surprise him.

Gonzalez said more undocumented workers are coming to the Rangeline area this
year and cannot get jobs. Also, migrants who work at nurseries are getting fewer
hours because of a drop in production, he said.

We're coping here as much as we can,'' Gonzalez said about his agency, which
helps migrants find jobs, understand government regulations and get medical
services.

The Soup Kitchen depends on donations of day-old bread, vegetables and chicken
from supermarkets, restaurants and hotels, but in the past few weeks the amount
has dropped.

Donations from the Food for Families Drive also was down, leaving fewer canned
goods, beans and rice that go in brown grocery bags handed out on Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.

The situation was so bad one day there was nothing but corned beef hash and
picante sauce to spread on white bread.

Many of the 100 volunteers have been making egg salad sandwiches and potato
salad at home and buying large jars of peanut butter and cans of tuna to make
sure everyone has enough to eat.

There really should be more than one soup kitchen in the area, but we're the
only one,'' Host said.  These people are hungry every day, not just Thanksgiving
and Christmas.''

At a soup kitchen in Delray Beach, the food supply is barely keeping up with the
steady increase in homeless, elderly and poor families coming to Mount Olive
Baptist Church.

Between 85 and 125 hot lunches are served daily, with most of the food coming
from the Daily Bread Food Bank.

If we had more food, we could feed more people,'' said Kim Buyers, director of
the South County Community Food Pantry.

The kitchen west of Boynton Beach got through last week after several
condominium associations sent leftovers from holiday parties, volunteer Stan
Rutstein said.

It doesn't matter, as long as it's good, edible food,'' Rutstein said.  We're
not fancy.''

Donations can be brought to the kitchen at 9850 W. Boynton Beach Blvd., or call
732-7595.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (c), BOB SHANLEY/Staff Photographer, CHARITY IN NEED, BOYNTON
BEACH - Maria Majora feeds son Michael, 2, while 1-year-old Martez looks over
the Soup Kitchen Thursday. The Soup Kitchen, at Boynton Beach Boulevard and U.S.
441, is calling for donations to provide for the estimated 200 workers who
receive free lunches there five days a week.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              174 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 28, 1992 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

' MACHINES DON'T SUE';
BIG SUGAR CUTS BACK ON FOREIGN LABOR

BYLINE: By LISA SHUCHMAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1387 words


For 18 years, Alphanso Brown has been coming to Palm Beach County to do

what has been described as some of the toughest work in America:--cutting

sugar cane.

He has contributed a great deal to the growers' coffers and to the

county's economy, harvesting the area's largest cash crop.

But this may be his last trip. Soon he will not be welcome.

Brown is one of 4,050 cane cutters who arrived from Jamaica this month as part
of a foreign-labor program that growers are abandoning.

The program, which has existed in some form for 50 years, enables growers to
import cheap Third World labor to ease local labor shortages at harvest

time.

Growers of other crops in other states are increasing their use of the

program. But it has become more trouble than it's worth in Florida's sugar

fields. Growers have started replacing workers with mechanical harvesters in

response to mounting pressure from labor advocates to improve "slavelike"

conditions.

The move to machines has been accelerated by a court ruling that says

growers must ante up more than $50 million workers have been underpaid in the
past.

"Machines don't sue," sugar company executives have said repeatedly in

recent months.

The Sugar Cane Growers Cooperative of Florida will harvest 100 percent of its
crop by machine this season.

And while other major growers have yet to abandon field labor, the trend is
working against Brown and his co-workers from Jamaica, a country that needs

the American currency the program provides.

This year's contingent of foreign cutters is about half the size of last year's
and down from a 1988 peak of close to 11,000.

Growers are buying dozens of mechanical harvesters that cost $175,000 each but
can do the work of about 60 people. And cane cutters know the mammoth

green machines threaten the program they call "the contract."

"I have friends who weren't asked back this season," Brown said. "The

men are worried about the contract going down."

Brown, 43, said he has used his earnings from 18 seasons in Florida to

build his house in Jamaica, send his 10 children to school, buy pigs, a goat

and a cow and do some farming at home.

"If they didn't ask me back next season, I would be upset but I could

cope," he said. "But others might find it rough."

Jamaica's estimated unemployment rate ranges from 20 to 25 percent. And

the cost of living has risen dramatically in recent years.

"I depend on the program," said Steve Mason, 35, who started his fourth

season this month. "This program has been helping the Jamaican people since

before I was born, and I want it to continue."

U.S. SUGAR WORKS TO MAKE PEACE

The United States Sugar Corp. has shown signs that it, too, wants to

continue importing foreign workers-- called H-2A workers for the type of work
visa they receive under the program. The Clewiston-based company has even made
labor peace with the advocates who once were the perceived enemy. In recent

years it has upgraded the living quarters it provides workers and this year

has agreed to completely revamp its pay system.

Companies owned and controlled by the Fanjul family of Palm Beach say they also
want to improve their relationship with labor advocates. And they have

made progress in meeting advocate demands for access to labor camps and

improved living conditions for workers.

But unlike U.S. Sugar, they have not made many other significant changes. And
rather than working toward compromise, they say their future in the

program depends entirely on the actions of labor advocates and the media.

"I get the impression they have written off the H-2A program," said Greg

Schell, an attorney with Florida Rural Legal Services. "For them, the program is
about over."

In fact, the company's general counsel, Joe Klock, said the Fanjul

harvesting operation will be fully mechanized by 1995 at the latest.

"We don't have a choice," company spokesman Jorge Dominicis said. "We

can't continue to be known in our community as slave owners."

U.S. Sugar and Florida Rural Legal Services built up to their labor peace
gradually. For more than a year, they simply talked to one another-- in itself a
milestone for two longtime adversaries. Last season, instead of turning to

the courts, the company and worker advocates discussed labor problems as they
arose-- and usually came to some kind of understanding, said Bob Buker, senior
vice president of U.S. Sugar.

LABOR TROUBLES NOT OVER FOR FANJUL FIRMS

The Fanjul companies, however, did not respond to Legal Services' efforts to
resolve disputes, advocates said.

Schell cited two examples:

* A pending lawsuit that alleges one of the family's sugar companies

illegally fired more than 150 cane cutters in 1986 after a disagreement about
wages sparked a work stoppage.

* The case of Josephat Leonce, a cane cutter who was sent home to St.

Lucia last season as punishment for getting into a shouting match with a cook at
one of the Fanjul company camps. The cook had refused to let him exchange

his breakfast porridge, which he didn't like, for some extra bread.

"We cannot work out the simplest problem with them," Schell said. "They

are the worst employer I've seen in my 13 years in farm labor."

In contrast, U.S. Sugar has worked with advocates and with governments in
Jamaica and other Caribbean nations to resolve disputes about savings and

insurance money that workers have long complained disappears from accounts set
up to ensure they save enough money to take home.

This year, the U.S. General Accounting Office substantiated those

complaints, issuing a report saying the workers' insurance plan, administered by
the West Indian governments, did not meet requirements under U.S. law,

received no oversight and was never held accountable for how the premiums have
been spent.

The report also questioned the legality of the savings plan, which deducts 23
percent of workers' wages but fails to pay the full amount deducted or

interest earned.

U.S. Sugar also has agreed to reimburse some Caribbean workers a total of almost
$365,000 for a portion of past travel expenses that were withheld from their
pay.

In addition, the company discovered during an internal audit that its

method for calculating workers compensation payments was improper. It is

working with the state to ensure the problem is corrected.

The Fanjul companies, in contrast, initially refused to turn over all the
requested records to the Labor Department for the workers compensation

investigation, forcing the state to subpoena them.

They say they will follow U.S. Sugar's lead on the new savings and

insurance policies, but the transportation issue is one of many that remains

unresolved and lawsuits are pending.

This month, the Fanjul companies were again sued -- this time for

allegedly underpaying seed cane cutters during the 1990-91 season.

Of all the changes U.S. Sugar has made, the most dramatic is in the pay

system, which advocates have long argued was arbitrary and unfair.

This summer, Palm Beach County Circuit Court Judge Lucy Brown ruled that

all the companies employing cane cutters had shortchanged thousands of workers
under the old system. All of the companies are appealing the ruling, which, if
upheld, will cost them $51 million.

PROBLEMS `UNTIL LAST H-2A WORKER IS GONE'

Regardless of the outcome of the case, U.S. Sugar will abandon the

confusing "task rate" payment system this season and instead pay workers a

guaranteed rate per ton.

This should allow the average worker, based on past productivity, to earn $7.28
an hour. That's a 75-cent-per-hour increase over last year's average and 28
percent more than is required by law, the company and advocates say.

The Fanjul companies will continue to pay under the old system, spokesman
Dominicis said.

While this harvest season may provide a study in contrasting approaches to labor
relations, one thing is clear: A failure by U.S. Sugar to maintain peace with
its workers and their advocates or a failure by the Fanjul companies to

make peace will hasten the conversion to total mechanization.

Earlier this year, Fanjul general counsel Klock called the drift to

machines "a terrible shame." But, he added, "The problems we've had

operating this program will not be resolved until the last H-2A worker is

gone."

* Coming tomorrow: While the H-2A program is winding down in Florida's

sugar fields, it is booming in other states where critics say farmers are

trying to avoid the higher cost of using domestic workers.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  FOREIGN WORKERS IN AMERICA'S FIELD / Ran all editions / First of two
parts / Information box does not appear in database; see microfilm.



CORRECTION: Always refer to Circuit Judge Lucy Chernow Brown.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C AND B&W)
 (1/C) JEFF GREENE / Staff Photographer Tired laborers wait to be taken back to
camp after cutting cane in an Osceola Farms field near Pahokee. Critics blast
sugar firms' `slavelike' conditions. (2/B&W) JEFF GREENE/Staff Photographer At
Pelican Lake Camp near Pahokee, rows of clothing hang to dry. More than 1,000
Jamaican workers make their temporary home at the camp. (3/B&W) JEFF
GREENE/Staff Photographer Osceola Farms worker Michael Ottey straps on
shinguards that blunt razor-sharp machetes. (4/B&W) Mechanical harvesters are
growing in popularity. (5/B&W) Foreign cane cutters remain inportant to the
harvest. (6/mug) Brown, Lucy

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 23, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CARIBBEAN NATIONS SEEK HELP FOR HAITIANS

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, BAHAMAS


Concern in the Caribbean mounted Friday over the effect of a new U.S.

policy ending its wholesale rescue of Haitian boat people and a top Haitian

diplomat said the exodus was likely to continue.

Caribbean officials, concerned that more boat people might drift to other
islands, want more assistance from the Organization of American States or

United Nations.

"This could create a problem in countries like ours," said Benjamin

Clare, a senior foreign ministry official from Jamaica, which has taken in

Haitians arriving on its shores.

The OAS this week tightened its trade embargo to increase pressure on the
military-backed de facto government of Haiti. It also called for nations in

the hemisphere to offer more humanitarian aid, in part to stop the flight of

the Haitian poor.

Among Caribbean countries, the policy varies. Several hundred Haitians

have been taken in, but thousands have been denied haven, said Wendy Singh,

spokeswoman for Caribbean Rights, a Barbados-based human rights group.

The Bahamas, which is directly in the Haitians' route to the United

States, has had 20,000 or more illegal Haitian immigrants arrive over the past
decade, and officials say they have repatriated 4,000 to 5,000 who have

arrived since the coup.

"If not for the interdiction effort of the Coast Guard, I have no doubt

we would have been inundated," said Prime Minister Lyndon Pindling.

The Dominican Republic last year began an aggressive drive to deport up

to a million Haitians who had settled there illegally over the years. But it

suspended repatriations after the coup, although officials do not believe

substantial numbers of Haitians are now crossing the border.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 25, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. SHIPS TO RETURN HAITIANS;
BUSH ORDERS REFUGEES SENT DIRECTLY HOME

BYLINE: By ANDREW ALEXANDER, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Citing a "dangerous and unmanageable" surge in Haitian boat people,

President Bush on Sunday authorized the Coast Guard to pick up and return

refugees directly to their impoverished homeland.

A White House statement said Bush's executive order was necessary because the
refugee camp at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba is "filled to

capacity" with roughly 12,500 boat people, and Coast Guard cutters cannot

cope with another wave of fleeing Haitians.

"This action follows a large surge in Haitian boat people seeking to

enter the United States and is necessary to protect the lives of the Haitians,
whose boats are not equipped for the 600-mile sea journey," the statement

said.

Bush's executive order was issued from Kennebunkport, Maine, where the

president is spending the Memorial Day holiday at his seaside vacation home.

It is a shift in the latest administration policy, announced only

Thursday, in which the Coast Guard was told its cutters should pick up only

those Haitian boats in danger of sinking and allow seaworthy vessels to head

on toward the United States.

Previously, the Coast Guard picked up all Haitian boats it encountered and took
the refugees to Guantanamo, where they were sheltered as they waited to

be interviewed by U.S. immigration officials to see whether any had grounds

for political asylum in the United States.

As of the end of last week, 6,691 Haitian refugees had been brought to the
United States to apply for political asylum. The Coast Guard said Sunday that
14,863 Haitians have not qualified for political asylum and have been returned
to Haiti.

The White House said Sunday that Bush has the legal authority to order the boat
people picked up and returned directly home without first hearing their

cases.

But Ira Kurzban, an attorney for the Haitian Refugees Center in Miami,

said Bush exceeded his authority. Kurzban said his organization would decide

"within the next 48 hours" whether to seek court action to halt the

order.

Kurzban said a 1967 international protocol signed by the United States

"establishes an absolute prohibition on the return of persons to a country

where their life or freedom would be threatened."

"This is a dramatic step backward reversing 25 years of commitment to the
principles that most other nations adhere to," he said in a telephone

interview.

The administration's decision reveals Bush's hope that the problem will go away,
said Jahn Francis, council parish president at Our Lady of Perpetual

Help Church in Delray Beach. But it won't, he said.

"We are going to have chaos on our hands. People are going to die on the

high seas." The result will be a shift in world opinion against the United

States, he said.

The refugees leave for political reasons, not to flee poverty, Francis

said. Forced return endangers their lives, he said. "A lot of them are going

to get arrested. A lot of them are going to get killed."

At the Delray Beach church, most Haitians were not aware of Bush's order early
Sunday evening, the Rev. Roland Desormeaux said. Churchgoers were

arriving quietly for the 7:30 Mass.

Desormeaux was disappointed but not surprised by Bush's order.

"By taking everyone back home, no one knows who the real political

refugees are. I certainly believe many of them will go back to be killed."

The Coast Guard has picked up more than 34,000 boat people since the Sept. 30
coup that ousted Haiti's first freely elected president, Jean-Bertrand

Aristide.

Those who want political asylum should apply at the U.S. Embassy in the

Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince, the White House said.

But many Haitians have said they fear retribution by Haiti's military-

backed government if they are spotted at the embassy.

The White House statement said the embassy staff would be expanded, if

necessary, to handle the refugee applications.

The administration had hoped that Haitians would stop fleeing if they

believed the Coast Guard no longer would pick them up. The administration has
said it believes most Haitians take to the seas in hopes of being rescued by

the Coast Guard because they will receive free food and housing at Guantanamo
and stand roughly a 30 percent chance of being sent on to the United States to
formally apply for political asylum.

Voice of America creole language broadcasts have been urging the Haitians not to
attempt the treacherous journey.

Sunday's White House statement said the new policy was needed because

Haitians are continuing to die at sea. It said 18 were killed last week when

their boat capsized near Cuba.

Coast Guard officials said last week that with the start of the hurricane season
in June, hundreds more boat people likely would die.

While Sunday's statement said the Coast Guard would return boat people

"directly to Haiti," it also said the Coast Guard had the authority to

deliver them to "another country" if necessary.

* Staff writers Stephanie L. Jackson and Joel Engelhardt contributed to

this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 6, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. TURN-BACK POLICY APPEARS TO HAVE SLOWED HAITIAN EXODUS

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Fewer Haitians appear to be fleeing their island by boat as a result of the Bush
administration's May 24 decision to force back virtually anyone found

trying to leave there by sea.

The number of people intercepted by the Coast Guard showed little change

for the first few days after Bush announced the policy; more than 1,000

Haitians were picked up on May 29.

But none has been picked up in the last two days, administration officials said,
and only four boats were intercepted in the prior three days. If the

exodus continues to slow, they will shut down a tent city on the U.S. naval

base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where Haitian refugees had been taken until

immigration officials could examine their asylum requests.

A New York federal judge Friday decided not to stop the forced

repatriations, an action one official said would reinforce the

administration's message that it was not worth it to try to leave Haiti.

In handing down the ruling, U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. said that
laws cited by attorneys seeking to overturn the Bush policy did not apply in
international waters.

The judge, however, had harsh criticism for the Haitian policy. "This

court is astonished that the United States would return Haitian refugees to

the jaws of political persecution, terror, death and uncertainly when it has

contracted not to do so," Johnson wrote.

Michael Ratner, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said the ruling would be

appealed.

Since a Sept. 30 military coup ousted Haiti's first elected president,

Jean-Bertrand Aristide, "the numbers (of boat people) have gone up and

down," a State Department official said, "so no one is going to make a

definitive prediction" that the numbers won't go up again. "But people are

not setting off as much as before," he said, and "it appears the policy is

having that effect."

"One thing that's for certain," a U.S. official said in Port-au-Prince,

"the word is out. People do know" about the change in policy. "It's out

there in the provinces" with constant radio broadcasts. "We've blanketed the

airwaves with the announcement," he said.

Several Haitians interviewed Friday near Petit Goave, a departure center

about 50 miles southwest of Port-au-Prince, said they were aware of the

policy.

Mackino Virgil, a 26-year-old man who said he had been sent back from

Guantanamo twice, said "fewer people are taking boats now because they know

they are just going to lose their money. They are not keeping Haitians in

Guantanamo; they are closing the base down."

Joblessness and poverty have increased as a result of a U.S.-backed

embargo designed to force the return of democracy to Haiti. Critics have said
the embargo is only causing needless suffering and is not tight enough to have
any effect on the military-backed government or its wealthy supporters.

Some Haitians said they would try to flee again despite the new policy.

"I'm just not staying here," said Jose Luis Oreste, a 21-year-old

mechanic who had been returned in April from Guantanamo. "I'm living in a

country that does not offer you any opportunities."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C/AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 14, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BE PREPARED FOR PAPERWORK

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 16C

LENGTH: 495 words


As you enter a Bahamian port such as Walker's Cay, the captain is charged

with reporting to the customs and immigration officials.

Hours of operation are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Arrive

earlier, later or on holidays and you could pay an overtime charge. Officials
said the fee averages $35. If entering at Freeport, expect a $10

transportation fee.

Before leaving the vessel, the captain should hoist a yellow quarantine

flag. Crew members should stay aboard with their luggage until the captain

returns.

Customs and immigration officials will need: Passports or birth

certificates from everyone aboard. Voter registration is no longer accepted as
proof of citizenship. Also, boat registration papers. A photocopy with a seal is
sufficient.

The captain will fill out the Maritime Declarations of Health and the

Inward Report for Pleasure Vessels. A cruising permit will be issued for the

boat.

Immigration cards should be filled out for each individual and retained

until departure.

A permit is required if anyone aboard the boat will be fishing. Cost is

$10 per visit or $50 annually.

Bahamian fishing rules include:

* No more than six fishing lines in the water at any time.

* The bag limit for kingfish, dolphin and wahoo is six fish per person on the
vessel including any combination of the three species.

* The bag limit for other fish such as grouper and snapper is 20 pounds of whole
fish per person. Catching of grouper or rockfish weighing less than 3

pounds is prohibited.

* Only 10 conch and six crawfish per person may be possessed. The crawfish
season is Aug. 1 through March 31. Lobsters must have carapaces at least 3-3/8
inches long or have a tail length of 6 inches.

* A Hawaiian sling is the only spearfishing device allowed. Spearfishing

is prohibited within 1 mile off the coast of New Providence, 1 mile off the

southern coast of Freeport and 200 yards off the coast of all Family Islands.
Posted signs at Walker's Cay stated there also was no spearfishing allowed

north of the island.

* Harvest of fish or lobster is prohibited on scuba gear.

When returning to Florida, privately owned vessels check in with U.S.

Customs officials at one of 26 reporting stations. Near the Palm Beach Inlet,
Sailfish Marina and Spencer Boat Yard are the two locations equipped with the
special gray customs telephones.

You will need to provide: Boat registration number; passport number,

driver's license number or social security number for the boat captain and

owner; names and birth dates of all passengers.

Boats 30 feet and longer will have to report their U.S. Customs user

decal number. The $25 decal may be purchased from a customs office before your
trip. The West Palm Beach office is at the Port of Palm Beach.

The customs officer filing your report will give you a clearance number. For
complete information on imports and exports, contact the local

customs office at 844-4393. For similar information in the Bahamas, call the

Bahamas News Bureau at 305-444-8428.

-- CHRIS DUMMIT

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  See related stories

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 25, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAST GROUP OF REFUGEES RETURNED;
1,500 AWAIT VERDICTS AT GUANTANAMO BAY

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 223 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The U.S. Coast Guard said Wednesday it had completed the last scheduled

repatriations of Haitians from a refugee camp at the Guantanamo Bay Naval

Base in Cuba.

But the camp, which reached its peak capacity of 12,500 refugees in May, is by
no means empty.

Nearly 1,500 Haitians are still there, awaiting a final verdict on their fate
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service a Coast Guard spokesman

said.

"We're hoping this is an end to the entire thing," the spokesman said,

adding that the repatriations could resume if INS refused to grant political

asylum to remaining Haitians at the camp.

No Haitians have been rescued by the Coast Guard since June 5, shortly

after President Bush ordered all Haitians found aboard boats to be immediately
returned to their troubled homeland.

Haitians began the mass migration to the United States after a Sept. 30

military coup ousted democratically elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Aristide, now in exile, has refused an invitation from new Haitian Prime
Minister Marc Bazin to meet and discuss a resolution to the political crisis.
Since Oct. 29, when sanctions supported by the United States and the

Organization of American States were issued against the Haitian government,

Coast Guard cutters have rescued a total of 36,722 men, women and children

from 491 often dilapidated and overcrowded boats.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 4, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

S. FLORIDA RESIDENTS SWORN IN

BYLINE: By GRANT HOLLAND, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


This Independence Day has a special meaning for about 1,200 South Florida

residents. They can now celebrate the holiday as Americans.

Friends and family members crowded into Miami's Dade County Auditorium

Wednesday to see the foreign-born Floridians take the Oath of Allegiance and

become naturalized U.S. citizens.

With a gigantic American flag as a backdrop, the citizens-to-be raised

their right hands in unison while an official from the Immigration and

Naturalization Service read the oath.

"I can't put into words what it means to be an American," said Noel

Chin, a native of Jamaica who has been living in Naples for the past six

years. "I am no longer going to be on the outside looking in."

Willy Rosier of West Palm Beach, a former marine in his native Haiti, said it
was difficult for him when he first came to America because he didn't

understand English.

"One of my friends asked me the other day, `Why do you want to be an

American?' I told him because I just want to," said Rosier, who is trying to
bring his daughter, Monica, to the United States. "I've lived here 12 years.

Why can't I be an American?"

More than 60,000 naturalized citizens live in Palm Beach, Martin and St.

Lucie counties, according to the 1990 census.

To become naturalized, applicants must be at least 18 years old and

permanent residents of the United States for five years-- unless they are

married to and living with a United States citizen for three years.

Applicants also must read and write simple English and have a basic

knowledge of U.S. government and history. They take written tests and are

interviewed by the INS.

"It's been a long struggle to get to where we are," said Ruth Barmash of

Boca Raton, a native of Canada who became a U.S. citizen Wednesday. "Now we

want to contribute to the U.S.," said Barmash, who owns Creative Advertising

Specialties on North Dixie Highway with her husband, Vuni.

"It was a culture shock for me when I first got here," said Nubia

Moreno, a Colombian who lives in Fort Lauderdale. "We didn't have slumber

parties (in Colombia). I really like those."

"I love the idea that I'm going to be able to vote and have a say in

what goes on," said Ana Jaramillo of Hollywood, who is a citizen of Colombia

and the United States. "Many people live here and never get involved-- I

think that's a shame."

At the end of Wednesday's ceremony, quiet chatter rose as Miami's Color

Guard marched off stage with rifles raised and flags hoisted. The ceremony

lasted only 15 minutes. Friends and family members waited outside with faces

pressed against the glass doors and windows, eager to congratulate the new

citizens. Elections officials registered many of the newly eligible voters at
booths outside.

"It's like a green light for me," said Marcela Ledinic of Vero Beach,

who has lived in the United States for 28 years. "Before, I felt a little bit
left out locally when I couldn't get involved in my town."

Ledinic, who teaches Spanish for an adult-education program, says she

returns to her native Mexico once a year to visit family.

"The culture in Mexico is geared very much toward its origins. . . . In

the U.S., we can draw benefits from many cultures . . . It's like an open

door," she said. "I'm looking forward to celebrating the Fourth of July as

an American citizen."

THE TOP FIVE

Naturalized Citizens in 1990:

PALM BEACH COUNTY, 51,203

ST. LUCIE COUNTY, 5,187

MARTIN COUNTY, 3,613

SOURCE: 1990 U.S. Census

Top five home countries of Florida immigrants (1990):

CUBA, 8,519

HAITI, 6,571

MEXICO, 6,210

JAMAICA, 5,380

COLOMBIA, 4,829

TOTAL: 71,603 in Florida

SOURCE: U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service.

DEFINING THE `AMERICAN DREAM'

The Roper Organization recently asked 1,296 adults to define the `American

Dream' in a poll sponsored by Shearson Lehman Brothers. Some findings:

* THREE in four said it was very important for them to own a home and have

enough money to send children to the college of their choice. But just 12

percent said being wealthy was very important, and 46 percent said it was

unimportant.

* GIVEN unlimited money, 27 percent said they would give to charity first,

more than would travel (22 percent) or help their families (19 percent, not

including the 7 percent who would save for their children's education). Just 3
percent would quit their jobs or retire.

* SIXTEEN percent of those polled said they have already achieved the American
Dream, as they define it. Six in 10 said their parents achieved, or will

achieve the American Dream. More than seven in 10 said that attaining the

American Dream is harder now than it was a generation ago.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer NEW CITIZENS FACE THE FOURTH WITH PRIDE
Immigrants wait in line to receive their naturalization certificates after being
sworn in as U.S. citizens at the Dade County Auditorium in Miami.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 20, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' ISLAND' REFLECTS TRAGEDY OF CHINESE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By CHARLES SOLOMON, The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 654 words


Capsule reviews of recent paperback releases:

ISLAND: Poetry and History of Chinese Immigrants on Angel Island,

1910-1940 by Him Mark Lai, Genny Lim and Judy Yung. University of Washington

Press; ($14.95).

An estimated 175,000 Chinese immigrants entered the United States between 1910
and 1940 through the immigration facility on Angel Island in San

Francisco Bay; men and women seeking freedom and economic opportunity in the

"Land of the Flowery Flag" found themselves interned on the island,

sometimes for months.

The anonymous poems in this anthology were written as graffiti on the

wooden walls of the detention barracks. Many of these poems reflect the

bitterness of the internees, who discovered that racial exclusionary laws

forced Chinese to undergo medical and legal tests that were not required of

immigrants from Japan and other Asian countries: "America has power, but not

justice. In prison, we were victimized as if we were guilty. Given no

opportunity to explain, it was really brutal. I bow my head in reflection but
there is nothing I can do."

However, the majority of the verses express the profound melancholy of

people longing for both the homes they left and the homes they dreamed of

establishing. "Today is the last day of winter, tomorrow morning is the

vernal equinox. One year's prospects have changed to another. Sadness kills

the person in the wooden building."

To supplement the poetry, the editors interviewed former detainees and

workers at Angel Island. The resulting volume documents a sorry and neglected
chapter of American history.

A Friendly Deceit, by Greg Johnson. Johns Hopkins; $12.95.

Johnson's resonant short stories represent regional writing in the best

sense of the term: The unique atmosphere and sensibilities of the author's

native South color his prose, imbuing it with a special vitality.

In the title story, the fictitious accounts of his vanished father

offered by well-meaning relatives cause a young boy to grow up mistrusting any
emotional bond. "Intensive Care" captures the impotent rage of a decent,

ordinary man watching his estranged brother die of AIDS: He learns, too late,
the price exacted by years of aloof silence and disdain.

Georges Seurat, by Norma Broude, and Rembrandt, by Larry Silver. Rizzoli

($7.95 each.)

These two handsome volumes are part of an extensive new series of art

books from Rizzoli. Undergraduates could easily frame the large, full-color

reproductions of famous paintings for the walls of their dorm rooms, and

parents eager to expose their children to fine art can give them copies

without worrying about the kids' getting jelly on the pages of a $75 coffee-

table book.

The brief texts are well-researched but not pedantic. Silver notes the

ongoing debate over the attribution of various "Rembrandts" and explains the

traditional interpretation of the artist's self-portraits as reflections of

the changing conditions of his life.

Broude traces the links between science and art during late 19th century

that led Seurat to experiment with his pointillist technique, and summarizes

the current theories about the meaning of his masterpiece, A Sunday Afternoon on
La Grande Jatte.

Family Fictions, by Richard Hall (Penguin; $11).

Hall's engaging, entangled novel focuses on the dirty little secrets

hidden in the cupboards of a well-to-do family in postwar America. Caught in a
desperate struggle with her rich, dictatorial mother-in-law and the nasty

anti-Semitism that lurks within the manicured suburbs of upper-middle-class

Long Island, Margaret Schanberg turns her back on her Jewish heritage and

changes the family name to Shay.

She joins the local Episcopal Church and befriends its most social

members. But she soon discovers the past is not so easily erased. Her

children, Harris and Mag, repay her in kind with their own secrets

-- homosexuality, financial misdeeds, marital problems-- and their search for
identity eventually leads them to reclaim the heritage Margaret disavowed.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  BOOKS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 27, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WORLD SET FOR LATEST VISA LOTTERY

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


If you're Irish, it's better than the sweepstakes.

If you're not, the U.S. State Department's visa lottery that begins

Wednesday is still the best game in town.

The prize is 40,000 green cards, the stamp of legal residency in the

United States coveted around the world.

"Everybody is excited about it," said Dennis McAllister, director of

the Emerald Isle Immigration Center near Fort Lauderdale. He said 136 people

got green cards in last year's lottery, which nearly caused riots outside a

suburban Washington, D.C., post office.

Last year applicants could mail as many entries into the lottery as they wanted.
Applicants carried hundreds of letters to the Merrifield, Va., post

office, hoping to improve their odds of winning.

This year, applicants are limited to one entry. Mailing more than one will
disqualify the applicant, State Department officials said.

"It's a better system this year because it eliminates the first-come

fiasco of a bread riot in Moscow," McAllister said, who last year submitted

27,000 applications for 250 people last year.

The good news for immigrants is that the visa lottery is free, except for a
29-cent stamp, and it is simple to enter. There are no forms to fill out and no
need to consult an attorney. Letters can be mailed from the United States

or from overseas.

The bad news is that the lottery is limited to natives of 36 countries,

mostly European. Natives of Ireland and Northern Ireland will be awarded

16,000 of the 40,000 visas. The lottery was authorized by Congress to give

special attention to countries that have had low immigration rates in past

years.

To be eligible, applicants must be from the following countries: Albania,
Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,

Estonia, Finland, France, Guadeloupe, New Caledonia, Germany, Great Britain,

Northern Ireland, Bermuda, Gibraltar, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland,

Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco,

Netherlands, Norway, Poland, San Marino, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia.

The entry letters must be mailed between 12:01 a.m. Wednesday, July 29 and
midnight Aug. 28. For a recorded message on how to apply and what information
should be supplied call the State Department's visa hotline at (202) 663-1600.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 14, 1992 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS FIND HOME IN SOUTH FLORIDA

BYLINE: By WILLIAM COOPER JR., Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast have the state's second highest

population of Haitian immigrants from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, according to state
figures.

The influx was triggered by the Sept. 30 ouster of Jean Bertrand Aristide,
Haiti's first freely elected leader. While the United States has ordered some
Haitian immigrants returned to their country, these immigrants have had their
claims of asylum accepted by the U.S. government.

"I think we've discovered the numbers are a lot higher than we expected,"

said Dr. James Howell, the chief administrator for state Department of Health
and Rehabilitative Services in West Palm Beach. "We've also learned there are a
lot of language and cultural barriers."

From November to May, 5,464 Haitians have entered Florida, HRS figures

show. Of those, 1,697 settled in Palm Beach, St. Lucie, Indian River,

Okeechobee and Indian River counties. The highest influx has been in Dade

County, where 2,579 Haitians arrived, HRS records show.

A task force created by Howell six weeks ago has learned that the Haitians have
difficulty getting services that range from receiving medical care to

enrolling their children in school. The task force also learned that immigrant
children with no parents or guardians were being victimized.

"Apparently, when they (children) are at the resettlement agency, people

sign for them as if they are their relatives, but they aren't," said Daniella
Henry, executive director of the Haitian American Chamber of Commerce in

Delray Beach. "We have found some of these young girls have been abused by

men who signed for them pretending to be an uncle."

In addition, the children are being kicked out of the homes of the so-

called relatives once their refugee benefits expire, said Henry, who knows

of about 12 children who have been caught in this situation. Under the federal
Refugee Assistance Program, which is administered by the state, immigrants are
entitled to a monthly cash stipend and medical care for eight months.

The program also provides job training, child care and other benefits for the
new arrivals, HRS officials said.

Howell said he wasn't sure of the role of HRS if people are lying to

become sponsors of Haitian children. However, if people in the community know of
any children, including Haitian arrivals, being abused, they should called HRS'
abuse registry at 1-800-96-ABUSE.

To further clarify the Refugee assistance program, the task force will meet
today with Nancy Wittenberg, Florida's Refugee Program administrator.

Wittenberg will explain what her agency's role in helping the immigrants,

Howell said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Graphic does not appear in database; see microfilm.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (C)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 19, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA'S UNFAIR BURDEN

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 373 words


The military coup in Haiti 11 months ago is causing problems in Florida

today. South Florida in particular is paying heavily to absorb refugees.

Articles last week in The Post revealed that since November, 7,872

Haitians have resettled in Florida-- 2,467 of them in Palm Beach, Martin, St.
Lucie and Indian River counties and 3,551 of them in Dade. Social-services

agencies are overwhelmed. There are reports of people being taken in by

families only to be thrown out when assistance payments run out.

These Haitians are not just economic refugees. They are among roughly

38,000 who fled after the coup that overthrew President Jean-Bertrand

Aristide. Most boat people were returned by the Coast Guard under orders from
President Bush. But 11,000 were found by immigration officials to have

plausible reasons to fear political persecution if they were returned to

Haiti. Florida's influx has come from that group. They wait in limbo while the
State Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service review each case

to decide whether political asylum should be granted.

It's not a contradiction to say that, however compassionate and proper aid might
be, these Haitians shouldn't be in Florida. And they wouldn't be if the Bush
administration had taken a stronger stand against the officers who

carried out the coup. The embargo imposed by the Organization of American

States is leaky, and President Bush punched his own holes by granting

exemptions to U.S. factories. The president also has been ambivalent about

President Aristide. Newsweek magazine reports that U.S. officials have told

Mr. Aristide that "one way or another, the embargo is going," so he needs to

make a deal with the military-backed regime of Marc Bazin.

Because the embargo is starving the poor while leaving the military's

wealthy backers relatively untouched, an end to the embargo is crucial. But

deals that leave the military in power would be disastrous. Leaders still

would despise the poor, and Haiti would remain too unstable for investment. A
new OAS mission is in Haiti trying to negotiate a return to democracy. Expect
the military to stall. If the Bush administration lets the military get away

with it, expect the new Haitian refugees in Florida to become permanent

residents.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial / Ran all editions

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 23, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAU PROFESSOR BACK FROM ATTEMPT TO SNEAK INTO U.S.;
CECILIA CAMPOVERDE SPENT FOUR HARROWING DAYS WITH IMMIGRANTS ON;
THEIR TREK FROM GUATEMALA.

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1268 words

DATELINE: BY CHRISTINE KEATING PALM BEACH POST STAFF WRITER BOYNTON BEACH


The lights from an oncoming car winding its way through a Mexican

mountainside made the 17 men and one woman scatter and hide under bushes.

"Abajo! Abajo! Get down-- hide!" their leader said in a strained

whisper.

Cecilia Campoverde knew the routine. She hid, waiting for the all-clear

signal. For the past three days, she and the Guatemalan men had been working

their way to the United States border-- risking their lives for freedom and a
better life.

Only Campoverde, a 55-year-old Florida Atlantic University professor,

wasn't like the others. She lives in a large home in a comfortable Boynton

Beach neighborhood. She has a view of the lake, ducks in her back yard, a job,
possessions and American freedom.

So why would she pack only two shirts, a pair of pants, shorts, a

toothbrush and video camera for a monthlong trip to Guatemala that would

require her to sneak back into the U.S. illegally?

"This was not just some adventure," Campoverde says. "I am not an

' Evel Knievel.' I am a teacher-- a learner. And I wanted to share with

other people what I learned."

As co-founder of the Latin American Information and Referral Service for migrant
workers in West Palm Beach, the Ecuadorian native works with illegal

immigrants.

She wanted to get a better understanding of that experience; she wanted

to see with her own eyes why thousands of Guatemalans leave their families

-- their country-- to come to the U.S. to work as farm laborers.

So she contacted a "coyote," a Guatemalan guide, who would lead the

seven-day trek to the American border. She gave him $800 as a down payment for
his assistance.

The coyote knew Campoverde's plan and told her of the dangers-- bandits,
immigration officers, physical exhaustion-- that she would face traveling

through Mexico with refugees.

"Can you run for 15 minutes without stopping?" the coyote asked

Campoverde.

If her life depended on it, Campoverde said.

Her son and best friend tried talking her out of the trip. Her

chairperson at FAU told her it wasn't necessary for her to go.

Safe at home now, Campoverde said it was "sheer ignorance" that let her

think she was not putting herself in a dangerous situation.

"I didn't understand," she said. "I thought maybe we would take a bus,

hide a little. I didn't know."

Before starting her journey on June 19, Campoverde spent about three

weeks in Guatemala, bringing messages from Guatemalans in the states back to

their families.

Then, beginning in southeast Mexico-- she cannot reveal the exact

location-- she and the others planned to cross the San Ysidro mountains from

Tijuana, where they would hire a guide to take them to Los Angeles or

Indiantown. Campoverde lasted four days before deciding she couldn't make it the
entire way.

"Perhaps I was naive in my original purpose," Campoverde said. "I

wanted to do an academic type of critical analysis of the lives of these

people.

"You would have to be a robot to do that. I became one of them and was

saving my life as they were."

She says you couldn't pay her a million dollars to attempt that journey

again.

"The fear was intolerable," she said. "To be powerless-- to give my

life over to the coyote who tells you what to do. You cannot ask questions.

You cannot say you are hungry or thirsty."

Campoverde said she has never known such thirst. At times she thought she would
die from it. She also feared the snakes and scorpions they walked among in the
woods. And more than anything, she and the others feared being caught

by immigration officers or bandits.

The group could move only at night, without speaking or fully opening

their eyes because immigration could detect the whites of their eyes in the

dense darkness. Even whispers, Campoverde said, can travel for hundreds of

yards in the mountains.

At one point, when the group split up to hide from people they thought

were immigration officers, four of the men never returned. She does not know

if they were caught, or just decided to separate.

During the day the coyote would leave them hiding in the woods while he

arranged for night transportation through Mexico.

Sometimes he would be gone for 24 hours, leaving them with no food or

water. Campoverde said she and the others sometimes drank their own urine.

After four days and nights of this, Campoverde had had enough.

About 10:30 p.m. June 22, she had joined eight others in a taxi driving

toward the border. The driver had been paid to drive and not ask questions of
the group. He kept a guard with a machete in the front seat with him.

This is when Campoverde told them, "I am not going."

The driver would not take her back to the nearest town, so she walked

alone through the woods.

"I could not face the option of three more nights of unbearable fear."

About 30 minutes later she found a woman working late in a sewing shop

who took her in for the night. The next day, Campoverde got on a bus headed

for Brownsville, Texas.

She has never found out what happened to her companions.

None of the thousands of immigrants who try to cross the border have the means
to remove themselves from a life-threatening situation. They sell

everything they have to pay their coyote, Campoverde said.

Americans don't pay enough attention to the problem, she said.

"It's like the Holocaust," she said. "We are moved, horrified by the

cruelty of Hitler. But then it goes by."

More than 25,000 Guatemalans were admitted legally into the U.S. last

year, according to U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service records in

Washington, D.C. Duke Austin, an INS spokesman, said his office does not know
how many come into this country illegally.

"It's illegal to do what (Campoverde) did," Austin said. "It's also a

very dangerous endeavor. Undocumented aliens traveling through Mexico are

ready targets for abuse by local nationals and authorities.

"They are subject to inhumanities of alien smugglers who use them as

human cargo."

A Guatemalan man who made the journey illegally to the U.S. two years

ago said what Campoverde did was "very brave" and hopes it will help people

realize the dangers aliens face trying to escape their own country.

An accountant in Guatemala, this man now works maintaining landscapes. He said
he is happy here and impressed with our laws.

"There is more respect here for human rights," he said.

Campoverde said she has come away from the experience convinced the

Guatemalans cross the border because the U.S. government allows them access.

"We could close it. But we leave spots open that people can cross with

difficulty-- many people die trying, she said. "But it's left open because we
need the cheap labor over here.

"It's a criminal act of our government." For the first time in

retelling her story, Campoverde becomes visibly upset.

Austin said border patrols are not "looking the other way" when it

comes to aliens coming in.

"But we have not had the national will to provide sufficient resources

to prevent the mass immigration," he said.

Campoverde says she would like to see the U.S. send engineers and

technology to Guatemala rather than charity such as canned food and old

clothes.

Campoverde is writing a book about her experience and is still looking

for a publisher.

"These are proud people. They do not want our charity. They are just

looking for what you and I are looking for-- a better way of life."

CECILIA CAMPOVERDE

* Personal: 55, single, native of Ecuador.

* Her story: Campoverde, the assistant professor of sociology at FAU, wanted to
better understand the immigration experience. In June, she joined a trek

of illegal immigrants trying to cross the U.S. border.

* Quote: ' I have leearned to be much more humble in expectations of myself. I
have more of an appreciation of life and the lives of these people coming

in.'

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Sunday Spotlight / Information box at end of text.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C)
 JEFF GREENE/Staff Photographer Cecilia Campoverde poses with two Mayan Indians
who live at White Camp in Indiantown, where she visits to learn about living
conditions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           August 26, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

150 CHINESE WANT TO STAY AFTER BEING LEFT IN HAITI

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI


More than 150 Chinese boat people who were dumped in Haiti instead of in

the United States want to stay in Haiti.

The Chinese immigrants have stayed in a high school in the southern port

of Jacmel since they swam or rowed ashore Aug. 15 from a Taiwanese fishing

vessel. New York was their intended destination.

Officials with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said

Tuesday that the Chinese had been transported by worldwide gangs that have

smuggled tens of thousands of Chinese into the United States.

Four suspected smugglers have been apprehended by Haitian authorities, and the
fishing boat has been confiscated, said Bruce Nicholl, coordinator of

organized crime investigations for the immigration service.

Haitian authorities, who reported one arrest, are cooperating with U.S.

Embassy officials, Nicholl said.

Nicholl said the smugglers intended to take the migrants to New York. He

said the average cost of such a journey is at least $30,000 per person, which
often is loaned to a migrant by family, friends or criminal gangs.

The gangs demand repayment by forcing the migrants to take menial jobs,

transport heroin or become prostitutes, he said.

Townspeople have welcomed the Chinese and given them food and clothing,

said Marlene Dorfeuille, head of the semigovernmental Permanent Haitian

Refugee Center.

"They are very happy where they are, and they ask us why they cannot stay on."

Dorfeuille said that the 151 young men can be deported, but that Haitian

authorities "want to give an example of humane treatment to refuge-seekers.

They are like our own boat people. We don't want to force them to return

home."

Dorfeuille said Haitian officials were working with foreign embassies,

international aid agencies and the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees to find a
home for the Chinese.

"It is . . . impossible for us to take care of them for long, and

considering our socio-economic situation, not fair to give them jobs we cannot
give Haitian nationals," she said.

Haiti is the hemisphere's poorest nation.

The U.S. Coast Guard has intercepted more than 37,000 Haitians seeking a

sea escape from their homeland since the army ouster of President Jean-

Bertrand Aristide in September 1991. More than 27,000 have been returned.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 29, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ORGANIZERS OF REFUGEE BOAT TRIPS ARRESTED IN HAITI

BYLINE: By J.P. SLAVIN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI


In a sign that the army-backed government may be playing politics with the

boat people issue, Haitian immigration police have started to arrest the

suspected organizers of refugee boats hours after they have been repatriated

by the U.S. Coast Guard.

Four boat people were arrested and jailed on Monday. Ten days earlier,

police detained 154 repatriated refugees and after being interrogated, four of
them were imprisoned.

Maj. Jacques Dennis, head of Haiti's immigration police unit, said the

crackdown is designed to punish boat trip organizers. Previously, boat trip

organizers were allowed to go free after being returned to Haiti.

But in a revealing remark, Dennis said the new policy also was designed to
please the Bush administration by discouraging renewed surges of Haitian boat
people headed for the United States.

The new government of army-backed prime minister Marc Bazin is trying to

be more accommodating to the Bush administration in an attempt to encourage

the White House to accept the legitimacy of the new regime. The Bush

administration has insisted that it will only recognize a Haitian government

headed by Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the country's first freely elected

president, who was ousted in a military-backed coup Sept. 30.

U.S. officials have made it clear that the Bush administration's

overriding policy concern is stopping refugees from trying to reach Florida by
boat.

More than 37,000 Haitian boat people have tried to sail to the United

States since the Haitian army exiled Aristide.

At one point during the boat lift, 12,000 Haitian refugees were being held at
the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Before a White House policy

change, Haitian refugees were brought to Guantanamo to pursue political asylum
claims.

The Guantanamo refugee camp is now closed except for about 300 HIV-postive
Haitians being held there.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 4, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

U.S. LETS FLORIDA SUFFER FOR IMMIGRATION POLICY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 394 words


When monarchs ruled Europe, royal children sometimes misbehaved. But spanking a
prince wouldn't do, so a peasant child was assigned to take the whippings.

For compassionate future rulers, this worked. For others, the threat Stop, or
I'll beat him'' was a free pass to a lot of royal hijinks.

That's roughly analagous to U.S. Haitian policy - immigration policy as a whole,
in fact - and its effect on South Florida. While there have been waves of Cuban,
Haitian, Nicaraguan, Guatemalan and other refugees coming to this area,
Washington hasn't felt the effect. The crowded schools and hospitals aren't
there. Neither are the increases in homelessness and crime that always result
from poverty.

Washington hasn't sent a check, either. For the most part, Florida taxpayers
have borne the cost.

Now Haiti's exiled president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, is losing patience with
Washington (which long ago lost patience with him). Mr. Aristide is hinting that
he may withdraw his never-heartfelt support for the U.S. policy of intercepting
Haitian refugees at sea and returning them to Port-au-Prince immediately. The
clear threat is that if America doesn't work harder to get Mr. Aristide back in
power, then Mr. Aristide will announce that his Haitian brethren might just as
well come on over to South Florida, where at least they won't starve from an
embargo and daily risk being shot by military thugs.

In effect, Mr. Aristide is telling President Clinton that if he doesn't stop
misbehaving, Florida will take quite a beating. Mr. Clinton might empathize with
Florida on this, but it's not like it's coming out of his own hide.

Last week Gov. Chiles said he thought the federal government should feel the
sting. He signaled intentions to sue to force the feds to pay costs the state
incurs because of Immigration and Naturalization Service policies. (Those costs
were estimated at $ 740 million a year.) The suit isn't directly related to Mr.
Aristide's threat, but it would set an important precedent.

In fact, the lawsuit may just be a blunt negotiating tool. Mr. Chiles lost a
similar claim several years ago when he was a U.S. senator. But whether the
matter is corrected in court or, preferrably, in negotiations, Washington has to
learn to care about the impact of its policies on South Florida. We're tired of
taking Washington's lumps.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              189 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     January 9, 1994 SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

POLITICALLY MOTIVATED RAPE COMMON WEAPON IN HAITI

BYLINE: ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Haitian troops, unable to find a pro-democracy activist, reportedly jailed his
fiancee in retaliation last summer and then gang-raped her in prison.

The young activist escaped to Miami and has been granted political asylum, and
she has since managed to follow him to safety.

But legal experts say the woman faces a much tougher challenge than her fiance
in persuading U.S. immigration officials that her rape - like torture or
beatings - constitutes political persecution and therefore is grounds for
asylum.

Rape is commonplace in wars and repressive societies. But it is still viewed as
a private'' act by most immigration officials, even when women are raped by
troops or authorities, lawyers who have represented women's asylum cases say.

The Haitian claims for asylum based on rape are routinely dismissed as personal
encounters that do not rise to the level of persecution,'' said Cheryl Little,
an attorney for Florida Rural Legal Services who represents numerous Haitian
refugees seeking asylum in the United States.

Rape as a form of political persecution is being taken more seriously since the
mass sexual assaults of Muslim and Croat women in former Yugoslavia.

However, while Canada recognizes gender-based political asylum claims and has
even granted asylum to women fleeing Arab countries where defiant women are
sometimes stoned to death, the United States has no such legal precedent.

There have been very few asylum decisions based on gender-based persecution,''
said Deborah Anker, the coordinator of the Harvard Immigration and Refugee
Program and a legal expert on women's asylum issues.

Anker said U.S. federal courts have ruled favorably in only one such case, in
1987. In that case, a U.S. court in California reversed a federal immigration
tribunal that had denied a Salvadoran woman's asylum petition which was based on
her assertion that an army sergeant in El Salvador had repeatedly raped her. He
reportedly had told her that if she tried to stop him, he would denounce her as
a guerrilla, an accusation that could mean imprisonment, torture or death.

Since then, there have been encouraging signs that attitudes towards women's
asylum cases are changing, Anker said. She added that the courts are beginning
to hear cases of gender-based persecution that might not have been considered in
the past.

In May, the federal Board of Immigration Appeals reversed the decision of a
lower immigration judge who had denied asylum to a Haitian woman who fled to
Florida and asserted that she had been raped and beaten in Haiti by soldiers to
punish her for her participation in a pro-democratic church organization. Her
injuries were so severe she will never be able to bear children, Anker said.

It was a ground-breaking case because they recognized rape as a form of
persecution,'' Anker said.

Haitian human rights activists say that in the past two months women have
complained increasingly of being raped by security forces and their paramilitary
accomplices.

They say troops typically arrive to arrest a man for pro-democratic activism. If
the troops can't find him, they rape his wife or children - in some case girls
who are not yet in their teens, the human rights activists say.

This is where human rights documentation is critically important,'' Anker said.
If a woman can prove there was generally a pattern of the use of rape as
retaliation against politically active male family members, she can conceivably
establish her claim on that basis.''

But for women trying to press gender-based claims, sufficient documentation is
another stumbling block.

Rape and sexual violation against women by soldiers and paramilitary operatives
is clearly under-reported in Haiti today,'' said Anne Fuller, a director of the
National Coalition for Haitian Refugees.

Probably most women would have trouble talking about such an experience to a
reporter or even a human rights monitor,'' she said.  And as they have
absolutely no legal recourse or possibility for assistance or counseling, you
are just not going to hear about the majority of cases.''

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              190 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     February 6, 1994 SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

HONOR WALL CAPTURES FLINTY IMMIGRANT SPIRIT;
ELLIS ISLAND DESCENDANTS SHOW PRIDE IN BEING AMERICANS

BYLINE: CAROLYN SUSMAN; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ACCENT, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 441 words


Muriel Greenblatt is 61, but she clearly remembers the story she heard as a
child. It was told over and over again as she grew up. The story of how her
mother, Esther Kaplan Sapir, came to America from Russia.

She was 17. She crossed Europe, mostly on foot, to get to the port where an aunt
had sent passage money. The ship was full. She was afraid she would starve if
she stayed, so she begged someone on line if she could share a bunk with them.
She would sleep during the day and the woman could sleep at night. That's how
she came.''

Esther not only repaid her aunt once she got here, and sent money to Europe, but
she also brought her father over. Then they sent for the rest of the family.

For some reason, the family wasn't permitted entry. They were incarcerated to
await being sent back home. But Esther and her father, with the help of friends,
got a law passed to allow them in, the story goes.

Quite a story.

Greenblatt's parents came through Ellis Island to a new life. So she was happy
to honor them on the American Immigrant Wall of Honor at the Ellis Island
Immigration Museum in New York. For $ 100 a name, she placed both their names on
the wall.

The Ellis Island Foundation dedicated the 652-foot-long wall in 1988 to help pay
for the restoration of Ellis Island in New York. The wall has 420,000 names so
far.

She just loved the United States so much,'' Greenblatt, from Palm Beach, says of
her mother.  She felt the gold in the streets was the opportunity.''

And Greenblatt's father? Jack Sapir lied about his age to avoid being drafted
into the Russian army. He feared if he went, he would never be allowed to see
his family again. Then he escaped to America.

My parents never let us forget: God Bless America,'' Green-blatt says.

Patriotism also stirs the memories of Elizabeth Porter of Port St. Lucie, who
placed the names of her father, Kimon Kritsings of Greece, and her grandfather,
Robert Edwards of Wales, on the wall.

Her father came through Ellis Island at 18 and, like Greenblatt's mother, never
let Porter forget how fortunate she was to be in America.  We did this for my
dad because he loved the country. He always made sure when we got of age that we
always voted and he never missed voting,'' she said.

I saw Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty in 1990. I had to see what my dad
saw. It makes you feel proud of your country.''

For information on placing a name on the wall, call: (212) 883-1986 or write to:
The Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation Inc., P.O. Box ELLIS, New York,
N.Y. 10163. There is no requirement that an ancestor be an Ellis Island
immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1 C, 1 B&W), 1. More than 420,000 names have already been carved
into the American Immigrant Wall of Honor at Ellis Island., 2. Elizabeth Porter
put the names of her Greek father Kimon Kritsings (above) and her Welsh
grandfather on the wall.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              191 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 26, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

URGE CONGRESS TO PASS LAW CURBING IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 187 words



If you are concerned about uncontrolled immigration into this country, consider
supporting two bills on the floor in Congress. These would be changes across the
board for everyone, regardless of race, religion, background, etc.

This comprehensive bill would:

Control costs by placing a firm cap of 300,000 on annual immigration levels;

Protect American jobs by reducing immigration so as not to increase unfair labor
market competition;

Bring order back to America's borders by doubling border patrols;

Improve public education by curbing illegal immigration, which results in the
crowding of schools; and

Ensure that those who do enter illegally do not gain access to taxpayer-financed
programs.

Your senators' and representatives' support is crucial in passing this act,
House Resolution 3320. Many members of Congress have said they are waiting to
hear from constituents before co-sponsoring Senate Bill 1351 and HR 3320.  If
the Federation for Immigration Reform is to succeed in getting this act passed,
you must encourage your members of Congress to support it.

JoAnn Peart

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              192 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 27, 1994 SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

LONG WAIT FOR A CHECK, SO FLORIDA SENDS A BILL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 795 words


Castro's government falls in Cuba. Rioting breaks out in Haiti. Parents in both
countries put thousands of children in boats headed for Florida. As the baby
boatlift gets closer, what do state officials do?

Jim Towey, secretary of the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative
Services, uses that scenario as one reason Florida has decided to deny foster
care to illegal immigrant children.  If we have a policy that guarantees room
and board to any kid, how can we possibly care for the 9,000 children already in
foster care who are citizens?'' asks Mr. Towey, who worked on refugee problems
in Washington for 10 years.  The soup is thin now for them.''

Florida has never had a clearly defined policy on illegal immigrants. The state
needs one now that covers not only foster care but all services. Florida, which
has been sued in recent years for failing to provide adequate foster care,
adequate mental-health care, an adequate juvenile-justice system and an adequate
prison system for our own residents may be spending as much as $ 1 billion a
year helping people who are in this country illegally.

The Census Bureau estimates there are 4 million illegal immigrants in the United
States. No one knows the exact number in Florida. Attorney General Bob
Butterworth's office is trying to use figures from the Justice Department and
the Census to make a guess. That estimate will be part of a lawsuit against the
federal government, which has never met its obligation to the states concerning
the financial impact of illegal immigration. Even during the Mariel boatlift,
which brought 125,000 Cuban refugees to Florida, no money came from Washington.

Florida isn't the only state getting tough with the feds. California, Texas and
New York, which have their own tight budgets, also have many immigrants.
California has threatened to sue if the state isn't reimbursed for the cost of
illegal immigrants. Florida's lawsuit, to be filed by Gov. Chiles, will demand
that Washington either pay the state $ 1.5 billion for services to illegal
immigrants or enforce the law - prevent people from entering.

True, ours is a nation of immigrants. And many who come here illegally are
honest and hard-working. But last week, a Congressional subcommittee described
how middlemen coached thousands of illegal immigrants to fake mental illness and
retardation to qualify for federal disability benefits.

Nancy Wittenberg, director of refugee programs for HRS, estimates that the $ 1.1
billion Floridians pay for illegal immigrants breaks down this way:

$ 60 million for prisons;

$ 988 million for education;

$ 74 million for Florida's portion of Medicaid, the federal/state program to
deliver health care to poor people;

$ 24 million for food stamps and Aid to Families with Dependent Children;

That amount, however, doesn't include the cost of emergency-room care. By law,
hospitals must provide emergency care to anyone who walks in - no questions
asked. Jackson Memorial in Miami must write off $ 220 million a year in such
care to illegal immigrants, Ms. Wittenberg says.

Other hospitals, with no hope of being reimbursed, haven't even bothered to keep
figures.  Anyone can come to an emergency room and say they don't have
identification because they don't have their wallet with them,'' said Don
Chester, vice president of St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach.

The governor's lawsuit is likely to have wide political appeal. While most
Americans are compassionate, it's hard not to resent paying taxes to care for
illegal immigrants when so many cities and so many citizens need more for
everything from roads to schools. There are also legitimate worries about health
problems brought by immigrants. An estimated 80 percent of the Haitians who come
ashore in South Florida are infected with (meaning they test positive for)
tuberculosis. Many of those who are allowed to stay simply disappear into the
general population.

Jay Peterson, Gov. Chiles' general counsel, says the message to the federal
government will be simple: Washington has to create programs for people who
sneak into the U.S. or reimburse the state for doing it. Says Mr. Towey, If the
federal government came in tomorrow and gave us the money to care for them, I'd
do it happily. But the feds have a responsibility.''

So do Floridians. All states with large numbers of illegal immigrants tend to
exploit them. They trim our yards, clean our homes and care for our kids. Most
work cheaply, for cash, worrying most about discovery and deportation. Whatever
policy the state develops must be fair to them, too. But it must be developed
soon. Floridians don't need another boatlift to dramatize the problem. We've
been living with it - and paying for it - for years.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              193 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 5, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

FISHERMAN CHARGED, HELD IN SMUGGLING OF HAITIANS

BYLINE: TERESA LANE; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


A man prosecutors say is known to area Haitians as Captain Jump-off'' because of
his history of forcing illegal immigrants into the surf far from shore was
ordered held without bail on federal smuggling charges Friday.

Richard Bennett Barker, who refused to answer many questions at a bond hearing
Friday because he was not represented by counsel, told U.S. Magistrate Frank J.
Lynch the only property he owned at the time of his arrest last week was $ 3,000
in cash.

A commercial fisherman who has lived the past few years in the Bahamas, Barker
is accused of smuggling 30 Haitians to the United States Feb. 7, a voyage that
ended in the deaths of two adults and two children.

Although Barker has denied the charges, Assistant U.S. Attorney Tom Blair said
in court Friday that the former Palm Beach County resident is well-known among
South Florida Haitians.

When Barker unloaded 30 Haitians off Jensen Beach last month, Blair said, he
didn't ask whether they could swim or offer help when some of them got into
trouble in the deep, rough surf.

The U.S. Border Patrol suspected Barker of a previous smuggling incident but did
not have enough evidence to file charges, Blair said. Since the Feb. 7 incident,
South Florida Haitians have alerted federal officials to other voyages possibly
involving Barker, he said.

Blair said two of the 26 surviving passengers positively identified Barker from
a six-photo lineup as the captain on Feb. 7. One passenger said Barker ordered
all 30 Haitians off the boat after a lengthy discussion about whether conditions
were safe, Blair said.

Barker told Lynch he owns no real property and gave the $ 3,000 to his wife upon
his indictment and arrest Feb. 24. He told Lynch he was unable to hire a private
attorney, and Lynch said because of a potential conflict with the federal public
defender's office, he will appoint a special attorney for Barker.

Lynch wouldn't cite the potential conflict, but the U.S. Attorney's Office has
said Barker, 43, was working with other refugee smugglers who could face
indictment.

Barker told Blair he paid $ 600 rent monthly for an above-average'' apartment in
Freeport and said he visits his parents in West Palm Beach occasionally.

The 31-foot open fishing boat reportedly used in the smuggling operation had a
false Bahamian registration number and altered hull identification number when
it was seized from a Riviera Beach marina, Blair said.

When Customs officials questioned Barker in Riviera Beach after the ill-fated
journey, Barker said he had cruised alone but couldn't explain why a vast store
of food, a woman's blouse and infant's apron and diaper were inside the craft,
Blair said.

If state officials don't charge Barker with homicide in the four immigrants'
deaths, Blair said, he will ask a federal grand jury to add a charge of culpable
negligence to the smuggling charges.

It is a crime if a captain negligently causes the death of his passengers,''
Blair said.

If the accusations are true, Lynch said, Barker is a flight risk and a danger to
the community, and he ordered him held without bail. Barker's attorney can seek
a new bond hearing at any time, Lynch said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Richard Bennett Barker (mug).

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              194 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      March 25, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

BUSH REPLY ON IMMIGRANT BURDEN INANE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 167 words


I read with interest the article Bush blasts governor, lawsuit,'' regarding Jeb
Bush's response to Gov. Chiles' suggestion that the federal government reimburse
Florida for the tremendous financial burden on the state by illegal immigrants
from Haiti and Cuba.

After accusing the governor of playing politics (a heinous, previously unheard
of crime), Mr. Bush suggested, among other comprehensive solutions, that the
border patrol'' be expanded.

Isn't Mr. Bush aware that Florida is surrounded on three sides by water? Or
perhaps he's concerned about the unprotected border with Georgia and Alabama and
all those folks sneaking in under cover of darkness.

Or, more than likely, Jeb Bush thinks he's still in his native state of Texas.

He further suggested that our congressional delegation work together'' to solve
the problem. The man's naivete is incomprehensible.

Go get 'em, Lawton. Most of us clear-thinking voters agree with your approach.

Charles C. Shepherd

Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Jeb Bush (mug)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              195 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 29, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS AN ASSET TO FLORIDA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 125 words


Gov. Chiles' new report of the estimated costs of immigration is distorted. It
leaves the impression that all immigrants, legal and illegal, are a burden to
the taxpayers.

New reports, mentioning the total cost of $ 1.6 billion for legal immigrants,
fail to say anything about how they benefit Florida through investments and
taxes. According to other studies, legal immigrants are an asset rather than a
liability to society.

The governor needs support in getting the U.S. government to reimburse the state
for certain expenses. It is worth remembering, however, especially in the era of
political correctness, that one day the newcomers, as undesirable as they might
be labeled, will cast their ballots.

Tuure Salomaa

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Lawton Chiles (mug).

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              196 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 7, 1994 THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

14 HAITIAN REFUGEES GET RITZ-Y RECEPTION

BYLINE: CAROLYN FRETZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: MANALAPAN


Fourteen Haitian men, women and children who waded ashore Wednesday morning got
the kind of welcome that is only a fantasy for most immigrants to the United
States.

Workers at the Ritz-Carlton Palm Beach hotel sent cotton blankets and a Creole
interpreter to help police communicate with the refugees at the Manalapan police
station just south of the hotel.

When Odmanne Matheus, the manager of the Ritz's laundry department and a native
of Haiti, determined the refugees were hungry, he went back to the hotel and
returned with breakfast.

The refugees feasted on fresh-squeezed orange juice, coffee, milk and an
assortment of pastries.

Sgt. Robert McAllister spotted the Haitians when he was on his way into work
between 6 and 6:30 a.m.

Through Matheus, the Haitians told McAllister they left Haiti on Saturday in two
boats that dropped them off near shore at the south end of the island.

The refugees were taken to Miami by U.S. Border Patrol agents, and will probably
be released to friends and family there, authorities said.

Matheus said he held his emotions in check by keeping the Ritz-Carlton motto in
mind.  We are ladies and gentlemen serving ladies and gentlemen. I was called on
to serve, and I went - not because I am Haitian, but because they are human.''

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              197 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 23, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN FREIGHTER BRINGS 411

BYLINE: ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR and JOHN FERNANDEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1296 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH


Six of the Haitians died and were thrown overboard at sea. Five more were
overcome by sunstroke and heat. Others were reportedly abused when violence
broke out aboard their ramshackle 65-foot freighter.

Clinton seeks $ 350 million to help states with immigrants. 3A

A record 411 Haitians, including children, arrived in Miami Beach on Friday
after dodging U.S. Coast Guard patrollers until they got to U.S. territorial
waters in their stolen ship.

They needed water. They were crammed into the bow, on the roof of the cabin.
There were people everywhere you could see,'' said a Coast Guard spokesman,
Chief Warrant Officer Dan Waldschmidt.

Exhausted after nearly a week at sea, the Haitians trouped off a Coast Guard
cutter Friday in the pouring rain, some in tattered jeans and others in their
waterlogged Sunday best, and they walked straight into the heart of a Washington
debate on U.S. policy on Haiti.

The refugees, plucked off their freighter east of Fort Lauderdale and loaded
onto the Coast Guard Cutter Mohawk, were taken to the Coast Guard station in
Miami Beach. From there, they were sent to Krome Detention Center in western
Dade County for interviews with immigration officials.

In what seemed to be a shift in the federal government's 15-month-old
repatriation policy, the refugees will be given an opportunity to seek political
asylum.

Officials with the Coast Guard and Immigration and Naturalization Service say
unusual circumstances forced them to accept the refugees. Among the
circumstances: The freighter crammed with the refugees drifted into U.S. waters,
some of the refugees may have been victims of violence on board and the U.S.
Border Patrol is investigating whether the Haitians were part of a smuggling
operation.

Some refugees have told Haitian activists in Miami that they did not pay for the
journey to the United States and that the boat was stolen.

Eight Haitian troublemakers'' were taken off the cutter in handcuffs, Coast
Guard Lt. Cmdr. Jim Howe said.

There was some concern that there was physical violence or abusive people on the
ship, possibly the smugglers who brought them in,'' said INS spokesman Lemar
Wooley.

The refugee-packed vessel was first spotted by the Coast Guard Thursday
afternoon about 20 miles east of Miami. They had left from the northern coast of
Haiti, near the town of Port-de-Paix where many smuggling ventures begin,
refugees told Thomas Wenski, parish priest of Miami's Notre Dame D'Haiti.

Coast Guard officials said they could not identify the boat by name or its
captain.

It is believed that the vessel broke down off Nassau on Tuesday. The Haitians
were apparently able to repair the old wooden freighter and continue on their
journey, Bahamian officials said.

The freighter's crew did not heed signals from the Coast Guard to halt, said
Coast Guard spokeswoman Simone Adair. The vessel would stop its engines, drift
for a while and restart, Adair said, as it headed toward Miami.

As night fell Thursday, Coast Guard vessels watched over the freighter as it
drifted northward in the Gulf Stream about 12 miles offshore - the border
between U.S. and international waters. It often strayed within 10 miles off
shore.

Early Friday, Coast Guard officials received word from Washington to transfer
the refugees onto a cutter and take them to Miami Beach headquarters. The five
who were ill were flown from the freighter to South Florida hospitals.

Additional information on the six dead Haitians was unavailable Friday.

As the other refugees walked off the Coast Guard cutter, they were silent and
unsmiling, queasy and seasick.

There's a visible sense of relief that they're here and not in Port-au-Prince,''
Wenski said.  I'm hoping they'll be in my church eventually, and I'm thanking
God they've been delivered.''

Since Jan. 15, 1993, when Clinton announced the policy of returning Haitian boat
people, almost 2,200 Haitians have been returned to their homeland by the Coast
Guard. Another group of 15 Haitians spotted 30 miles off the Haitian coast were
repatriated Thursday, said Adair. Clinton's policy was an extension of an order
issued by President Bush in May 1992.

Some Haitian advocates don't believe the incident was just a rare exception.
They believe the Clinton administration may be buckling to political pressure
from some members of Congress, exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and
refugee activists as violence and persecution spread in military-ruled Haiti.

The administration may have finally realized that the repatriation policy is
horrendous, and that some refugees who are sent back become victims of the
Haitian military,'' said Steve Forester, Haitian Refugee Center attorney.

Wenski agreed: Maybe the heat got too much for Clinton.''

White House officials said Thursday they would ask the United Nations to impose
a worldwide trade embargo against the impoverished nation. It did so after
reviewing a policy that has failed to return Aristide to power. Also on
Thursday, five members of the congressional black caucus and Rep. Joseph
Kennedy, D-Mass., were arrested for blocking White House gates as a protest of
Clinton's policy toward Haiti.

POLICY CHANGE?

Question: Why did U.S. officials accept 411 Haitian boat people Friday?

Answer: Coast Guard and immigration officials say they made an exception to the
existing repatriation policy because the freighter carrying the refugees drifted
into U.S. waters and some on board may have been brutalized by Haitian
smugglers.

Q: Does the incident signal a softening of the policy to forcibly return all
Haitian refugees to their homeland?

A: U.S. officials insist the policy, announced by Clinton in January 1993, has
not changed. But some Haitian advocates believe the White House may be reacting
to political pressure from some members of Congress and exiled Haitian President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide who want the policy rescinded.

Q: What will happen to the 411 Haitians?

A: They were taken to the Krome Detention Center in western Dade County where
their claims for political asylum will be reviewed by immigration officials.
Some of them will be released to relatives or community sponsors while their
claims are processed.

Q: What is normal Coast Guard procedure when encountering a vessel carrying
Haitian refugees?

A: Coast Guard vessels usually radio their superiors in South Florida when they
are faced with fleeing Haitians. Before a group is repatriated, a final go-ahead
is given to Coast Guard vessels. If the refugees' safety may be in question,
approval is sought from the State Department and immigration officials to allow
Haitians onto U.S. soil.

REACTION

REP. E. CLAY SHAW, a Republican from Fort Lauderdale:

Florida is incapable of providing for the needs of additional impoverished
refugees, and it is an outrage for the residents of my state to be held hostage
to the whims of federal immigration policy. To a state already overwhelmed by
the enormous cost of current legal and illegal immigration, the additional
burden posed by a change in policy would be absolutely devastating to local,
county and state government.'

SEN. BOB GRAHAM, D-Fla., reiterated his desire for U.S. military intervention in
Haiti:

I am extremely distressed about the state which our policy in Haiti has reached.
If our goal is the restoration of President Aristide to power, then there is
only one means for doing so, the credible use of military force.'

Graham suggested a U.S. led force with backing from international peacekeepers
from the United Nations and Organization of American States.

The sanctions have not been sufficiently imposed and may have even been
counterproductive, emboldening and enriching their military.'

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. - Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              198 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 1, 1994 SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

DO IMMIGRANTS REALLY COST FLORIDA $ 1.5 BILLION?;
CHILES' LAWSUIT IGNORES TAXES THEY PAY

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1750 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The doorway to America stands wide open at the Adult Education Center, a school
where recent immigrants can learn English, sign up for medical care and pick up
a driver license handbook.

Free English classes are offered 12 hours a day to immigrants. About a third of
those who enroll don't have Social Security numbers, an indication they are in
Florida on non-immigrant visas or without any visas at all.

County health workers visit the school to sign up students for free treatment at
public clinics.

There is a world of things they can get,'' said Larry McDowell, the school's
occupational specialist.  To qualify, you just have to be here.''

Gov. Lawton Chiles has targeted such programs in his lawsuit seeking $ 1.5
billion from the federal government to cover the cost of immigrants who enter
the country without visas.

But as generous as the services offered at the school seem, it's only one side
of the debate over immigration costs. Advocates for immigrants say people who
come to the United States to work almost always pay more in taxes than they
receive in services.

The advocates argue that immigrants, especially undocumented immigrants, don't
qualify for most government programs and are afraid to come forward for services
that are available.

By law, undocumented immigrants cannot receive welfare, food stamps,
unemployment compensation, Medicaid or job training. The only services open to
them are public schools and emergency medical treatment at hospitals.

Chiles' lawsuit, however, presumes that undocumented immigrants use government
services at the same level or a higher level as other residents. But
organizations that work with immigrant farm workers say many are single men who
don't use schools, libraries or health services, even though they support them
through taxes.

TAXES PAID ARE NOT USED

One example is that while thousands of Guatemalans live in Palm Beach County,
the school district has only 150 immigrants enrolled who give their birth
country as Guatemala. Farm workers support the school district tax base through
rents, but it appears they are not filling schools with their children.

The Chiles report fails to acknowledge the sales taxes, property taxes paid
through rents and federal income taxes and Social Security taxes withheld in
immigrants' paychecks.

The immigrants don't hurt the economy; they contribute to it,'' said Carlos
Cisneros, director of a nonprofit social service agency in West Palm Beach
called Guatemalteca Maya Quetzal.

Cisneros said many Guatemalans working in the vegetable fields put up with low
wages, mistreatment and discrimination and do jobs other workers refuse to do.
Cheap labor means lower prices on vegetables, an indirect benefit to the
American consumer.

The farm workers also pay a portion of their wages to Social Security. While
most Guatemalans entered the United States without visas, they can get temporary
work permits and a Social Security number when they apply for political asylum.
Most of the workers have no concept of Social Security and have no intention of
using its benefits, Cisneros said.

WORKERS DON'T RISK HELP

Undocumented immigrants come to the United States to work and don't often risk
exposing themselves to authorities by applying for benefits, said Elsa Gibbons,
director of the Center for Minority Human Services Providers in Riviera Beach.

Gibbons said the real costs come from the Cubans, Haitians, Bosnians, Russians
and others who are dropped on the state's doorstep with legal status without any
programs to ease them into the work force.

The lawsuit confirms what Gibbons and others contend: The state knows very
little about its immigrant population or services they use.

Confidentiality laws forbid most state agencies from asking about an immigrant's
legal status. Another factor clouding the issue is that immigrants defy
generalizations about their legal status and social service needs.

The lack of information makes counting immigrants or adding up their cost to
taxpayers difficult, said Tom Espenshade, a Princeton University professor who
specializes in analyzing immigration costs.

The states do have a point,'' Espenshade said.  They don't set or enforce
immigration policy, yet they bear some portion of the cost for lax
enforcement.''

Immigration studies show that the federal government gets the most benefit from
immigrant-paid taxes, he said, while states pretty much break even, and local
governments are hardest hit with the costs of immigration.

It's in the millions,'' said Warren Newell, a Palm Beach County commissioner and
a board member of a state agency that helped develop statistics for Chiles'
lawsuit. The agency, the Florida Council on Intergovernmental Relations, has
suggested that the state find ways to verify the immigration status of people
who use state and local services.

I guess that undocumented people are providing a service to the community, but
we need to get a handle on that,'' Newell said.

REPORT: EDUCATION COSTLY

The single largest cost is educating immigrants, according to Chiles' report.
Since school districts are forbidden by federal law to inquire about a student's
immigration status, adding up the costs of educating undocumented immigrants is
impossible.

The Palm Beach County school district says 5,800 students, or about 5 percent of
its enrollment, fit the federal definition of an immigrant. The largest numbers
are from Haiti, Mexico and Jamaica. The district does not estimate how many are
undocumented.

Based on the average per-student cost of running the school district, those
immigrants would cost taxpayers about $ 30 million a year. The federal
government this year reimbursed Palm Beach County $ 425,000 under the federal
Emergency Immigration Act. The rest is paid through property taxes and state
taxes.

The Chiles lawsuit suggests it costs more to educate immigrants than other
students. To identify the cost, the lawsuit counts students in limited-English
classes as an immigration-related expense. But 60 percent of students in the
classes are American citizens.

NO IDEA WHO USES WHAT

 We have about 15,000 students who are limited-English proficient,'' said Steve
Burns, a specialist in the Palm Beach County school district's multicultural
programs.  But 9,000 are American citizens who happen to speak another
language.''

The school district teaches an even larger number of adults in its English as a
Second Language (ESOL) classes but at a much smaller cost. An estimated 17,000
adults take the courses at community schools and the Adult Education Center at
2161 N. Military Trail.

The adult ESOL program costs about $ 1.5 million a year, almost entirely paid by
local and state taxes. The federal government gives Palm Beach County about $
468,000 a year for adult education, but it is not intended to offset ESOL costs,
state Education Department officials said.

By law, the English classes are free. Students on tourist visas are restricted
to 20 hours of classes a week.

While classes are large, the Adult Education Center teaches eight levels of
English and uses talking computers to supplement classroom teaching. The
computers interact with students by letting them listen to a recording of their
own voice speaking a sentence in English followed by the computer's voice
reciting the same sentence.

In a portable building on the campus, employees with the county Health Care
District help students fill out applications for treatment at public health
clinics. The district asks for Social Security numbers but, in practice, gives
services to anyone who can prove they live in the county and are poor.

If someone has a need, we try to figure out a way to provide them health care,''
said Cecil Bennett, chief executive officer of the district.  We are not in the
business of denying health care.''

Bennett said the district gives $ 7 million a year to public health clinics but
has no idea how much of the money is used for legal immigrants or undocumented
immigrants.

The county Public Health Unit, which treats patients referred by the Health Care
District, was giving services to 1,566 undocumented immigrants as of March 1,
Health Director Jean Malecki said.

The Public Health Unit refuses treatment to patients who cannot produce a Social
Security number but accepts those referred by the Health Care District, said
Robin Trotsky of the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services.

Bennett said the biggest problem the district has with undocumented immigrants
is not cost but that many refuse to use the services.

They don't want to surface,'' he said.  They don't seek health care because they
are afraid they will be deported.''

FLORIDA'S UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that in 1992 Florida
had 345,000 undocumented immigrants. Here are the countries they come from and
the estimated number:

Haiti 60,000

Bahamas 57,000

Canada 32,000

Nicaragua 28,000

Mexico 24,000

Other 144,000

COSTS BY COUNTY PALM BEACH COUNTY

Population: 863,518

Foreign-born: 105,303

Non-citizens: 54,100

Immigrants settling in county each year: 4,303

Immigrant students in public schools: 5,800

Residents who don't speak English well: 51,154

Undocumented immigrants: 23,115

Cost of undocumented immigrants/Palm Beach County

Education: $ 12.1 million

Police and courts: $ 1.8 million

Social Services: $ 896,192

Cost of educating students with limited English

Grades K-12: $ 43 million*

Adults: $ 1.5 million

* Of the 15,000 students in grades K-12 identified as limited in English, an
estimated 60 percent are U.S. citizens.

MARTIN COUNTY

Population: 100,900

Non-citizens: 3,262

Foreign-born population: 6,875

Residents who don't speak English well: 3,406

Immigrants entering per year: 232

Cost of foreign-born for local governments: $ 4.1 million

Cost of educating K-12 students with limited English: $ 664,000

ST. LUCIE COUNTY

Population: 150,171

Non-citizens: 4,331

Foreign-born: 9,461

English not spoken at home: 13,666

Cost of educating K-12 students with limited English: $ 771,000

SOURCE: Figures based on statistics provided by Florida Advisory Council on
Intergovernmental Relations and other state agencies. Costs assume immigrants
use government services at the same rate as any other resident. Population data
from 1990 Census.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions...information boxes at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer, The Adult Education Center
in West Palm Beach offers free English classes to immigrants - documented or
undocumented.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              199 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 1, 1994 SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

FIELD WORKER HASN'T FOUND WELFARE RICHES

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Armando Calderon laughs at stories of immigrants sneaking into the United States
and living rich off food stamps, welfare, free medical care and government
housing.

If there is a subsidized pot of gold, the Guatemalan-born farm worker hasn't
found it.

Up until now, we have not received any of those benefits,'' said Calderon, 49,
who pays $ 425 a month rent for his small apartment off South Dixie Highway.  No
Social Security, no food stamps, no welfare. We have never applied for any of
this.''

But he does pay taxes. From his sweat-earned $ 4.25 an hour in the tomato fields
in western Palm Beach County, he pays 12 percent in federal income taxes and
Social Security taxes.

Calderon entered the United States in 1990 without a visa, but he is not an
undocumented immigrant. Three years ago, he applied for political asylum. While
he awaits a ruling, he is entitled to work with a permit that must be renewed
each year.

Calderon's son attends sixth grade in Palm Beach County's public schools, but
Calderon said his son receives no special benefits. For a while, his son
attended classes to improve his English. But he has progressed to regular
classes.

Gov. Lawton Chiles wants $ 1.5 billion from the federal government to pay for
such immigrant services.

But Calderon sees the opposite of Chiles' calculation: a cheap labor force that
fills up rental property, buys used cars and appliances, pays taxes without
complaint and, by its low wages, keeps vegetable prices down.

If all of us Central Americans went back to our countries, you would see the
economy of the United States go down,'' Calderon said.  Who else is going to
work in the fields for $ 4.25 an hour?''

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              200 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 10, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

NEW POLICY INTENSIFIES CITIES' FEARS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


In the wake of a shift in Clinton administration policy on political asylum,
immigration jitters spread here Monday as county administrators dusted off an
emergency plan to deal with a refugee wave and city officials worried about
absorbing new residents.

The first Haitians among 400 to be released from a Dade County detention center
arrived over the weekend, but in small numbers. Three settled in Riviera Beach,
three in Belle Glade and one in Fort Pierce.

The jitters were prompted by President Clinton's announcement Sunday that
Haitians intercepted at sea would be granted political asylum interviews rather
than automatically repatriated. The result could mean 5,000 to 10,000 refugees a
month pouring into Florida, said U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla.

I don't know if there is anything a city can do to prepare for it,'' said Lake
Worth City Commissioner Robert Dovey, who has complained to federal officials
about the cost of immigration to the city.

Palm Beach County Commissioner Warren Newell said county administrators are
updating an emergency plan drafted in early 1993 to deal with a possible wave of
refugees after Clinton's inauguration.

The president's abrupt change of policy was protested Monday by 15 people who
marched in front of the Boca Raton City Hall. The protesters from Floridians for
Immigration Reform carried signs demanding that Haitians and Cubans be blocked
from entering the country.

State and county officials said they are not expecting a sudden wave of Haitians
but were giving notice that Florida already has accepted its share.

Gov. Lawton Chiles on Monday asked the federal government to send Haitians
granted asylum to states other than Florida.

To offset the increased costs dealing with refugees, Chiles also urged the U.S.
Justice Department to release about $ 35 million in an immigration emergency
fund that was created in 1986 but never has been activated.

Florida's ability to absorb additional demands for services and resources are
already strained to the limit,'' the governor said. The governor recently sued
the federal government over the $ 884 million he claims the state shoulders
annually in refugee costs.

The Haitians being released from the Krome detention center south of Miami are
eligible for state welfare payments, Medicaid assistance and Supplemental
Security Income for eight months, said Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami. He said the refugees are given
temporary work permits while the courts hear their asylum claims, a process that
takes about 12 months.

The six Haitians who arrived in Palm Beach County over the weekend were staying
with family members and are being assisted by Catholic Charities, a relief
organization.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Family and friends grieve Monday
after a funeral in Port-au-Prince, Haiti for Jean-Verdy Bastian, slain last week
by unknown gunmen.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              201 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 11, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

OPENING IMMIGRATION DOOR WON'T HELP

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 173 words


After reading the article on the virtues of immigration - Do immigrants really
cost Florida $ 1.5 billion?'' - one is tempted to organize a Caribbean flotilla
to collect islanders for expedited entry to the United States. The sooner
bienvenidos (welcome) is posted on our southern borders the better. Why, if the
undocumented pay more in taxes than the benefits they receive, then it follows
that our property taxes should be reduced and we'll wind up with more disposable
income.

But wait. Every year since 1980, Dade County has absorbed 12,000 immigrant
students. Ten elementary schools have been built and 285 teachers hired to cope
with this tide.

Quoting from a study done by the Urban Institute, which appeared in The Palm
Beach Post: What most immigrants pay in taxes does not cover the costs of the
services they receive, particularly when education is included, and the downward
trend in immigrant skills has been accompanied by an upward trend in their use
of public assistance.''

Wallace Waldon

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              202 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 13, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

GREEN-CARD LOTTERY IS DISCRIMINATORY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 130 words


I am a resident alien and as such have had my green card, or permanent resident
status, for years. I work in West Palm Beach as does my husband, and we both are
very happy to be Florida residents and intend later to become U.S.  citizens.

Each year the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has a green-card
lottery, and many English people have taken advantage of this opportunity to
obtain the right to live and work in the United States. But my friends in London
who have inquired at the U.S. Embassy there as well as a local immigration
attorney's office tell me that this year, residents of England are not eligible
to enter. This seems to be discrimination, considering all the other countries'
citizens permitted to take part.

Barbara Nock

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              203 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 14, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA LAWMAKERS SEEK PROMISE OF FEDERAL AID FOR HAITIAN INFLUX

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN; Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida lawmakers met with high-ranking White House aides Friday to seek
assurances that the state will not bear the brunt of a massive influx of Haitian
refugees.

''Our first point was that Florida was looking to the federal government to hold
it harmless from any additional impact of refugee arrivals,'' said Sen.  Bob
Graham, a Democrat. Graham, Sen. Connie Mack,=R-Fla., and Rep. Carrie Meek, a
Democrat from Miami, presented Clinton administration officials including Philip
Lader, deputy White House chief of staff, and Sandy Berger, deputy national
security adviser, with a letter signed by the entire congressional delegation
urging prompt action in preparing for an immigration emergency. The letter was
drafted by Rep. Tom Lewis, a Republican from Palm Beach Gardens, who did not
attend the meeting.

As part of the preparations, the Floridians said they would like to see an
emergency coordinator appointed to direct the federal response if an immigration
emergency occurred.

State officials are concerned that the recently announced policy of processing
Haitian refugees at sea, rather than returning them to the island without an
asylum hearing, will spark a mass exodus that would overwhelm tightly stretched
social services in South Florida.

Among the issues raised by the Floridians - including Gov. Lawton Chiles, who
participated from Florida on a speaker-phone - were the implementation of rules
allowing the release of up to $ 35 million in emergency aide if an immigration
emergency, such as the 1980 Cuban boatlift, reoccurs.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              204 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 16, 1994 MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

WINNING VISA LOTTERY A LONG SHOT

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


In some immigrant neighborhoods, the most exciting lottery being talked about
doesn't pay off in dollars. Instead, the winners get green cards.

The U.S. State Department's annual visa lottery will give permanent residency,
or so-called green cards, to 55,000 people whose mailed applications are drawn
as winners.

For the first time, citizens of most Caribbean and Latin American countries can
participate, including those from Haiti.

As a result, Haitian refugees who live in Palm Beach County are asking a lot of
questions about the lottery, said Daniella Henry, coordinator of the Haitian
American Community Council in Delray Beach.

Henry said their excitement wanes when she explains the lottery's limitations:
the remote chances of winning, the requirement of a high school diploma or
equivalent training and a stated rule that applicants must return to their home
country for a visa interview.

''The chance of winning the Florida Lottery is better than winning this,' said
Henry, who pointed out that only 2,589 of the visas will go to citizens of South
America, the Caribbean and Central American countries.

The State Department anticipates more than 10 million applications for the
lottery, based on the number of telephone calls to a recording offering details
on how to enter, said department spokeswoman Nyda Budig. The applications must
be mailed between June 1 and June 30. Only one letter of application is allowed.

Budig said the visa lottery is open to political asylum applicants. A
requirement that winners must return to their home country for interviews at the
U.S. Embassy probably will be waived, she said.

''We may be able to work it out so they would go to a third country for the
interview,'' Budig said.

Some nonprofit organizations are helping immigrants to apply for the visas, but
are downplaying the effort because of the long odds.

''We are telling people that they should continue with their political asylum
applications because that's their best opportunity,'' said Dexter Orange,
director of refugee resettlement for Catholic Charities. ''There is nothing
wrong with applying for the lottery, but it's a lottery just as the name
implies.''

Advertisements from attorneys and notaries are showing up in newspapers,
offering to help immigrants enter the lottery for fees of $ 25 for individuals
and $ 40 for family applications.

One West Palm Beach immigration attorney, Frank Ricci, is advertising free
seminars on how to enter the lottery. Ricci said anyone who is eligible should
mail an application.

''As we get closer to June 1, the momentum will build,'' Ricci said.

The State Department said the rules are simple. There are no forms to fill out
and no signatures required, and there are no fees or costs other than postage.

HOW TO APPLY

There are no forms or fees. Applicants must send a letter to the DV-1 Program
and include their name, date and place of birth, mailing address and native
country. Families may apply in one letter. Letters must be mailed between June 1
and 30. Mailing addresses and other rules can be obtained from a 24-hour
recorded message: (202) 663-1600.

ELIGIBLE COUNTRIES

Africa (all countries and adjacent islands): 20,200 visas

Asia (from Israel to North Pacific islands, including Indonesia): 6,837 visas

Europe (extends from Greenland to countries of the former Soviet Union): 24,549
visas

North America (only the Bahamas qualifies): Eight visas

Oceania (all countries and islands of the South Pacific, including Australia and
New Zealand): 817 visas

South America (includes Central America, the Caribbean and South America): 2,589
visas.

INELIGIBLE COUNTRIES

Mexico Canada

Jamaica China

Taiwan India

Philippines Vietnam

South Korea United Kingdom

El Salvador Dominican Republic

Source: U.S. State Department.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              205 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 21, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

NOT ALL IMMIGRANTS ARE HISPANIC, OK?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 116 words


About the recent letter ''Opening immigration door won't help'': The writer
certainly has a right to express his feelings and provide facts and figures to
support his position. But the immigrants to whom he is referring do not solely
speak Spanish. There are Russians, Serbs, Haitians, Germans, Africans and others
contributing to the burdens on our social services. Therefore, a ''bienvenidos''
sign and your translation (''welcome'') will not stem the tide.

I strongly support controlled immigration. But its enforcement is the
responsibility of the federal government. Blaming the immigrants and singling
out a segment thereof is irresponsible.

Jose R. Uzal

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              206 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 9, 1994 THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CHANGING FACE OF CITY

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1721 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Jack Folmer calls his clapboard house a little bit of the USA.''

All around him, he sees immigrants transforming his neighborhood into something
else.

I feel like I'm in the middle of Havana. I don't hear any English at all,'' says
Folmer, a World War II veteran.

An American flag flutters above his patio, a concrete slab painted forest green,
that runs right against the sidewalk.

The small houses are packed tight, a style from an earlier time when neighbors
had the same language and interests.

The sounds now spilling onto the sidewalk are a mishmash of Spanish and Haitian
creole. At the corner grocery, the big sellers are ground-corn tortillas and
Madame Gougousse rice. A block away on Lucerne Avenue is a social service agency
for Guatemalans. Another one for Haitians is opening on the same street in two
weeks.

The neighborhood bar is Panchitos, a billiards and burritos parlor that has the
stark look of a border-town cantina.

The new look has City Hall worried. Several weeks before Florida filed its
recent suit over uncontrolled immigration into the state, the Lake Worth City
Commission passed a resolution saying that illegal immigration is draining the
resources of South Florida communities.

The alarm bell from Lake Worth is part of a growing recognition by cities that
immigration is changing their once-familiar neighborhoods and costing them
money.

The changes in Lake Worth are fundamental:

While the population has gone up, the number of registered voters in Lake Worth
has dropped by 3,500 since 1981. Few of the new immigrants are U.S. citizens.

The city estimates it is home to 4,000 to 8,000 undocumented immigrants - about
one in every five residents.

Schools in Lake Worth use bilingual language facilitators'' to communicate with
students and parents who have trouble speaking English. The language spoken in
the homes of 45 percent of the students in Lake Worth's three elementary schools
is either Spanish or Haitian creole.

Adult classes at Lake Worth High School are not handicrafts and cuisine. Here,
240 adults come four nights a week to study English as a Second Language.

The city's housing code reflects the new ambiance. It was amended in August,
banning the hanging of clothes on shrubbery and fences, a common practice in
rural villages in Haiti and Central America.

Five years ago, we would never see anything like that,'' said Ed Breese, city
building, planning and zoning director.  It looks as bad as leaving trash strewn
on your yard.''

 They have different ways'

Residential electricity use is falling, a trend the city-owned electric utility
attributes to immigrants and other poor newcomers.

A lot of people don't use air conditioning, because it's cooler here than where
they came from,'' utilities director Harvey Wildschuetz said.  To them, air
conditioning is opening the front door and the back door.''

Some homes in immigrant neighborhoods burn 200 kilowatt hours a month, barely
enough to keep a refrigerator going, Wildschuetz said.

The biggest changes are in the city's westside neighborhoods. The newcomers -
mostly Guatemalans, Haitians and Mexicans - are replacing old-time settlers who
have died or moved away, leaving behind old houses with inexpensive rents.

The old-time residents who remain - a mix of blue-collar retirees, veterans on
pensions and winter residents - are uncomfortable with the new wave of
immigrants.

I'm not against them, not at all,'' said Ruth Kimmer, 80, who moved to Lake
Worth 30 years ago.  After all, my grandparents came here from another country,
Germany.''

But, Kimmer says, some new immigrants don't keep up their property and don't
have the same work ethic.

They just have different ways,'' Kimmer said.

City proud of immigrants

Officially, the city is proud of its new immigrants. Mayor Rodney Romano talks
of cultural diversity'' as an attribute that makes the city more attractive.

Take Wellington,'' Romano says.  It's homogeneous, but kind of boring.''

Still, some residents say Wellington doesn't look that bad from where they live.

I've had about as much of this diversity as I can stand,'' said Anna May Kinser,
a beauty shop owner.  He ought to go into these places and see how lovely and
diverse they are.''

Kinser says the immigrants pack several families in the same house and make a
mess, driving down property values. She says they raise the cost of government
by living off welfare, food stamps and free medical care.

The city commission made a similar complaint in February. A resolution signed by
Romano and the four commissioners says the uncontrolled immigration is putting
an undue burden on the city. It asked the federal government to halt the flood
of undocumented immigrants and deport those already here.

Commissioner Robert Dovey says the resolution grew out of frustration.

People are busting their crowns here, working to make a living and paying their
taxes, and they just resent it when boatloads of people from other countries are
dropped on our beaches. We are just supposed to absorb them without question,''
Dovey said.  That's the crux of the problem right there.''

 Upsetting the landscape'

The commission's resolution was criticized by some Hispanics.

They don't want to see all these people around in a city that used to be totally
white and conservative,'' said Clemencia Ortiz, director of the Latin American
Immigrant and Refugee Organizaion.  They see it as upsetting the landscape.''

Javier Del Sol, one of the few Hispanics active in city politics, said the
resolution reflected an unfounded belief that immigrants come for handouts.

It reflects an ignorance of why they (immigrants) are here,'' said Del Sol, who
said most immigrants are hard workers.

Del Sol, who works in community organizations to get more parks and recreation
programs in poor neighborhoods, said he feels the same attitude when he asks the
city for parks.

I try not to ask them for too much,'' said Del Sol.  They think we want
welfare.''

City officials say illegal immigration is costing the city money. They cite the
two Spanish-speaking employees hired by the code enforcement office and an
increase in police calls to immigrant households.

$ 200,000 police burden

The new immigrants' burden on the police department is estimated at $ 200,000 a
year by Sgt. Stu Winterson, head of the department's community policing unit.
Most immigrants cross paths with police as victims, not criminals, he said.

My deepest sympathy goes out to them,'' said Winterson, a Lake Worth officer for
20 years.  They get robbed and mugged. They are taken advantage of by landlords,
car dealers and service people. You can put them in terrible housing conditions
and they are just happy to be living here. They don't complain about
overcrowding.''

City officials do complain. They say crowding and neglect lowers housing values
and drives away economic development.

A recent report by code enforcement inspectors identified 16 of 18 overcrowded
households as occupied by immigrants. In one case, inspectors said they found 18
undocumented immigrants sleeping in a two-bedroom house and a van parked in the
driveway.

The city disputes a 1993 University of Florida study that shows Lake Worth with
a 20 percent vacancy rate in its housing, and a declining average household
size. Based on the crowding, school enrollment growth and other factors, the
city thinks its population is about 3,400 more than counted in the 1990 Census.

Officials and civic leaders also blame the deteriorating housing on landlords
who charge high rents and don't care how many tenants pack into a house or
apartment.

Landlords don't seem to care about educating immigrant tenants or seeing that
they have what they need,'' said Shirley Campfield, a founder of the civic group
called Lake Worth Concerned Citizens.

 We are hard workers'

Campfield says immigrants should not get the blame for the poor image of some
neighborhoods.

Two things happened simultaneously, the drug explosion along with immigration,''
Campfield said.  You put those two together and you got major problems. But the
causes of the two are not related.''

But some politicians have linked the two. State Sen. Mark Foley, R-West Palm
Beach, says he has heard stories of undocumented immigrants paying rents with $
100 bills, presumably earned by selling drugs.

Foley, a former Lake Worth commissioner, says the immigrants of today are
different from his Polish-born grandmother.

She came here with a clean bill of health, became part of the fabric of the
community and never took welfare,'' Foley said.  The immigrants we see now don't
want to meld into our culture but they want us to adapt to theirs.''

Polly Gaspar, a Guatemalan-born community worker, says most immigrants are
hard-working, tax-paying residents. She said her husband is working two jobs to
keep the family going.

We are not lawyers or anything, but we are hard workers and struggle to
survive,'' said Gas-par, who works at the Guatemalan Center on Lucerne Avenue.
That's not something that is new to this country.''

Campfield said city officials should be trying to address problems rather than
looking for someone to blame.

I don't think they've come to grips with it at city hall,'' Campfield said.
They can't run these people off. They can't ship them back home.''


LAKE WORTH IMMIGRANTS

The city claims that up to 8,000 of its 32,000 residents are undocumented
immigrants. The U.S. Census counted 28,564 residents in 1990, but city officials
argue that widespread overcrowding in housing inhibits an accurate count. Still,
the Census profile shows Lake Worth as an immigration gateway.

Noncitizens: 3,778, or 13% (twice Palm Beach County average)

Increase in Hispanics (1980-90): 256% (county's highest)

Foreign-born: 5,824, or 20% (county average is 12%)

Speak little English: 4,092

HOME LANGUAGE OF PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENTS

Language Students Lake Worth PB County

English 3,227 60% 81%

Haitian/Creole 915 17% 5%

Spanish 1,075 20% 11%

SOURCES: 1994 School Board statistics for Lake Worth High School, Lake Worth
Middle School, and Highland, North Grade and Barton Elementary schools. U.S.
Bureau of the Census 1990.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text. Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 b&w), 1. SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, Jack Folmer, in
front of his Lake Worth clapboard house, says he sees his neighborhood changing
as immigrants settle there.  I feel like I'm in the middle of Havana. I don't
hear any English at all.' Folmer calls his home a little bit of the USA.', 2.
MARK MIRKO/Staff Photographer, The area's diversity is evident at a Lake Worth
Road flea market booth that offers stickers and tapestries from assorted
countries.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              207 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 9, 1994 THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CHANGING FACE OF CITY

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1735 words

DATELINE: LAKE WORTH


Jack Folmer calls his clapboard house ''a little bit of the USA.''

All around him, he sees immigrants transforming his neighborhood into something
else.

''I feel like I'm in the middle of Havana. I don't hear any English at all,''
says Folmer, a World War II veteran.

An American flag flutters above his patio, a concrete slab painted forest green,
that runs right against the sidewalk.

The small houses are packed tight, a style from an earlier time when neighbors
had the same language and interests.

The sounds now spilling onto the sidewalk are a mishmash of Spanish and Haitian
creole. At the corner grocery, the big sellers are ground-corn tortillas and
Madame Gougousse rice. A block away on Lucerne Avenue is a social service agency
for Guatemalans. Another one for Haitians is opening on the same street in two
weeks.

The neighborhood bar is Panchitos, a billiards and burritos parlor that has the
stark look of a border-town cantina.

The new look has City Hall worried. Several weeks before Florida filed its
recent suit over uncontrolled immigration into the state, the Lake Worth City
Commission passed a resolution saying that illegal immigration is draining the
resources of South Florida communities.

The alarm bell from Lake Worth is part of a growing recognition by cities that
immigration is changing their once-familiar neighborhoods and costing them
money.

The changes in Lake Worth are fundamental:

While the population has gone up, the number of registered voters in Lake Worth
has dropped by 3,500 since 1981. Few of the new immigrants are U.S.  citizens.

The city estimates it is home to 4,000 to 8,000 undocumented immigrants - about
one in every five residents.

Schools in Lake Worth use bilingual ''language facilitators'' to communicate
with students and parents who have trouble speaking English. The language spoken
in the homes of 45 percent of the students in Lake Worth's three elementary
schools is either Spanish or Haitian creole.

Adult classes at Lake Worth High School are not handicrafts and cuisine.  Here,
240 adults come four nights a week to study English as a Second Language.

The city's housing code reflects the new ambiance. It was amended in August,
banning the hanging of clothes on shrubbery and fences, a common practice in
rural villages in Haiti and Central America.

''Five years ago, we would never see anything like that,'' said Ed Breese, city
building, planning and zoning director. ''It looks as bad as leaving trash
strewn on your yard.''

'They have different ways'

Residential electricity use is falling, a trend the city-owned electric utility
attributes to immigrants and other poor newcomers.

''A lot of people don't use air conditioning, because it's cooler here than
where they came from,'' utilities director Harvey Wildschuetz said. ''To them,
air conditioning is opening the front door and the back door.''

Some homes in immigrant neighborhoods burn 200 kilowatt hours a month, barely
enough to keep a refrigerator going, Wildschuetz said.

The biggest changes are in the city's westside neighborhoods. The newcomers -
mostly Guatemalans, Haitians and Mexicans - are replacing old-time settlers who
have died or moved away, leaving behind old houses with inexpensive rents.

The old-time residents who remain - a mix of blue-collar retirees, veterans on
pensions and winter residents - are uncomfortable with the new wave of
immigrants.

''I'm not against them, not at all,'' said Ruth Kimmer, 80, who moved to Lake
Worth 30 years ago. ''After all, my grandparents came here from another country,
Germany.''

But, Kimmer says, some new immigrants don't keep up their property and don't
have the same work ethic.

''They just have different ways,'' Kimmer said.

City proud of immigrants

Officially, the city is proud of its new immigrants. Mayor Rodney Romano talks
of ''cultural diversity'' as an attribute that makes the city more attractive.

''Take Wellington,'' Romano says. ''It's homogeneous, but kind of boring.''

Still, some residents say Wellington doesn't look that bad from where they live.

''I've had about as much of this diversity as I can stand,'' said Anna May
Kinser, a beauty shop owner. ''He ought to go into these places and see how
lovely and diverse they are.''

Kinser says the immigrants pack several families in the same house and make a
mess, driving down property values. She says they raise the cost of government
by living off welfare, food stamps and free medical care.

The city commission made a similar complaint in February. A resolution signed by
Romano and the four commissioners says the uncontrolled immigration is putting
an undue burden on the city. It asked the federal government to halt the flood
of undocumented immigrants and deport those already here.

Commissioner Robert Dovey says the resolution grew out of frustration.

''People are busting their crowns here, working to make a living and paying
their taxes, and they just resent it when boatloads of people from other
countries are dropped on our beaches. We are just supposed to absorb them
without question,'' Dovey said. ''That's the crux of the problem right there.''

'Upsetting the landscape'

The commission's resolution was criticized by some Hispanics.

''They don't want to see all these people around in a city that used to be
totally white and conservative,'' said Clemencia Ortiz, director of the Latin
American Immigrant and Refugee Organizaion. ''They see it as upsetting the
landscape.''

Javier Del Sol, one of the few Hispanics active in city politics, said the
resolution reflected an unfounded belief that immigrants come for handouts.

''It reflects an ignorance of why they (immigrants) are here,'' said Del Sol,
who said most immigrants are hard workers.

Del Sol, who works in community organizations to get more parks and recreation
programs in poor neighborhoods, said he feels the same attitude when he asks the
city for parks.

''I try not to ask them for too much,'' said Del Sol. ''They think we want
welfare.''

City officials say illegal immigration is costing the city money. They cite the
two Spanish-speaking employees hired by the code enforcement office and an
increase in police calls to immigrant households.

$ 200,000 police burden

The new immigrants' burden on the police department is estimated at $ 200,000 a
year by Sgt. Stu Winterson, head of the department's community policing unit.
Most immigrants cross paths with police as victims, not criminals, he said.

''My deepest sympathy goes out to them,'' said Winterson, a Lake Worth officer
for 20 years. ''They get robbed and mugged. They are taken advantage of by
landlords, car dealers and service people. You can put them in terrible housing
conditions and they are just happy to be living here. They don't complain about
overcrowding.''

City officials do complain. They say crowding and neglect lowers housing values
and drives away economic development.

A recent report by code enforcement inspectors identified 16 of 18 overcrowded
households as occupied by immigrants. In one case, inspectors said they found 18
undocumented immigrants sleeping in a two-bedroom house and a van parked in the
driveway.

The city disputes a 1993 University of Florida study that shows Lake Worth with
a 20 percent vacancy rate in its housing, and a declining average household
size. Based on the crowding, school enrollment growth and other factors, the
city thinks its population is about 3,400 more than counted in the 1990 Census.

Officials and civic leaders also blame the deteriorating housing on landlords
who charge high rents and don't care how many tenants pack into a house or
apartment.

''Landlords don't seem to care about educating immigrant tenants or seeing that
they have what they need,'' said Shirley Campfield, a founder of the civic group
called Lake Worth Concerned Citizens.

'We are hard workers'

Campfield says immigrants should not get the blame for the poor image of some
neighborhoods.

''Two things happened simultaneously, the drug explosion along with
immigration,'' Campfield said. ''You put those two together and you got major
problems. But the causes of the two are not related.''

But some politicians have linked the two. State Sen. Mark Foley, R-West Palm
Beach, says he has heard stories of undocumented immigrants paying rents with $
100 bills, presumably earned by selling drugs.

Foley, a former Lake Worth commissioner, says the immigrants of today are
different from his Polish-born grandmother.

''She came here with a clean bill of health, became part of the fabric of the
community and never took welfare,'' Foley said. ''The immigrants we see now
don't want to meld into our culture but they want us to adapt to theirs.''

Polly Gaspar, a Guatemalan-born community worker, says most immigrants are
hard-working, tax-paying residents. She said her husband is working two jobs to
keep the family going.

''We are not lawyers or anything, but we are hard workers and struggle to
survive,'' said Gas-par, who works at the Guatemalan Center on Lucerne Avenue.
''That's not something that is new to this country.''

Campfield said city officials should be trying to address problems rather than
looking for someone to blame.

''I don't think they've come to grips with it at city hall,'' Campfield said.
''They can't run these people off. They can't ship them back home.''


LAKE WORTH IMMIGRANTS

The city claims that up to 8,000 of its 32,000 residents are undocumented
immigrants. The U.S. Census counted 28,564 residents in 1990, but city officials
argue that widespread overcrowding in housing inhibits an accurate count. Still,
the Census profile shows Lake Worth as an immigration gateway.

Noncitizens: 3,778, or 13% (twice Palm Beach County average)

Increase in Hispanics (1980-90): 256% (county's highest)

Foreign-born: 5,824, or 20% (county average is 12%)

Speak little English: 4,092

HOME LANGUAGE OF PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENTS

Language Students Lake Worth PB County

English 3,227 60% 81%

Haitian/Creole 915 17% 5%

Spanish 1,075 20% 11%

SOURCES: 1994 School Board statistics for Lake Worth High School, Lake Worth
Middle School, and Highland, North Grade and Barton Elementary schools.  U.S.
Bureau of the Census 1990.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 b&w), 1. SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, Jack Folmer, in
front of his Lake Worth clapboard house, says he sees his neighborhood changing
as immigrants settle there. 'I feel like I'm in the middle of Havana. I don't
hear any English at all.' Folmer calls his home 'a little bit of the USA.', 2.
MARK MIRKO/Staff Photographer, The area's diversity is evident at a Lake Worth
Road flea market booth that offers stickers and tapestries from assorted
countries.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              208 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 15, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

EMERGENCY FUND WILL PAY STATES FOR IMMIGRANT AID

BYLINE: MARY ELLEN KLAS; Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


After being dogged by state lawsuits, the U.S. Justice Department on Tuesday
published its long-awaited procedure for how states can obtain federal money for
immigration emergencies.

The rule allows Florida to apply to be partially reimbursed for the costs of
handling large influxes of immigrants and refugees by tapping a $ 35 million
immigration emergency fund established by Congress in 1986.

Although the money has been available for eight years, none of it has been spent
because the Justice Department has neglected to adopt regulations. In 1992,
Congress ordered the agency to begin writing the rules but until Tuesday, they
were not completed.

The announcement also follows a series of legal moves by Gov. Lawton Chiles and
state officials in Arizona and California to prod the federal government into
responding to their immigration burdens.

In April, Florida sued the Justice Department, seeking $ 1.5 billion to
reimburse the state for immigration costs that encumber schools, law
enforcement, social services and hospitals. And last month, attorneys for the
state asked a federal judge to order federal officials to immediately release
the $ 35 million emergency fund.

We recognize that states like Florida have been extremely concerned about how
and when they can legally receive reimbursement for the assistance they provide
in handling an immigration emergency,'' Attorney General Janet Reno said in a
statement Tuesday.  We are pleased to have put a mechanism in place.''

Chiles spokesman Ron Sachs said lawyers for the state are reviewing the rule to
determine whether it provides an appropriate arena for the state to pursue
reimbursement'' for immigration emergencies in the past.

The rule, however, is narrowly written and allows state and local governments to
be reimbursed only for assisting the attorney general in her federal
responsibilities - such as providing emergency food, shelter, clothing and
health care. It will not reimburse for the cost of providing social services or
incarcerating illegal immigrants.

The emergency fund was intended to be used when the president declared an
immigration emergency or the attorney general seeks state and local assistance
in handling an influx of immigrants.  As a result, Reno, the former Dade County
state attorney, could have the final say in Florida's application.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              209 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 15, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

EMERGENCY FUND WILL PAY STATES FOR IMMIGRANT AID

BYLINE: MARY ELLEN KLAS; Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


After being dogged by state lawsuits, the U.S. Justice Department on Tuesday
published its long-awaited procedure for how states can obtain federal money for
immigration emergencies.

The rule allows Florida to apply to be partially reimbursed for the costs of
handling large influxes of immigrants and refugees by tapping a $ 35 million
immigration emergency fund established by Congress in 1986.

Although the money has been available for eight years, none of it has been spent
because the Justice Department has neglected to adopt regulations. In 1992,
Congress ordered the agency to begin writing the rules but until Tuesday, they
were not completed.

The announcement also follows a series of legal moves by Gov. Lawton Chiles and
state officials in Arizona and California to prod the federal government into
responding to their immigration burdens.

In April, Florida sued the Justice Department, seeking $ 1.5 billion to
reimburse the state for immigration costs that encumber schools, law
enforcement, social services and hospitals. And last month, attorneys for the
state asked a federal judge to order federal officials to immediately release
the $ 35 million emergency fund.

''We recognize that states like Florida have been extremely concerned about how
and when they can legally receive reimbursement for the assistance they provide
in handling an immigration emergency,'' Attorney General Janet Reno said in a
statement Tuesday. ''We are pleased to have put a mechanism in place.''

Chiles spokesman Ron Sachs said lawyers for the state are reviewing the rule to
determine ''whether it provides an appropriate arena for the state to pursue
reimbursement'' for immigration emergencies in the past.

The rule, however, is narrowly written and allows state and local governments to
be reimbursed only for assisting the attorney general in her federal
responsibilities - such as providing emergency food, shelter, clothing and
health care. It will not reimburse for the cost of providing social services or
incarcerating illegal immigrants.

The emergency fund was intended to be used when the president declared an
immigration emergency or the attorney general seeks state and local assistance
in handling an influx of immigrants.  As a result, Reno, the former Dade County
state attorney, could have the final say in Florida's application.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              210 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 24, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

INS' AREA DIRECTOR FAVORS NATIONAL ID CARDS

BYLINE: COURTNEY RUBIN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 320 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is a horrible bureaucracy,'' and
Walter Cadman is proud to say he's a bureaucrat.

Democrats and Republicans fight it out in Washington, and we do what they tell
us,'' said Cadman, district director of immigration for Florida and the Bahamas.

In other words, don't blame me if you don't like policies, he told about 40
members of the South County Young Republicans Thursday night at Addison's
Restaurant in Boca Raton.

But if he were in Washington, things would be different. He'd institute a
national identification card, give current laws some teeth and encourage the INS
to set up more checkpoints in airports and ports abroad.

ID cards don't necessarily mean Big Brother is watching over you, he said. You
wouldn't have to whip them out at toll booths or restaurants, but they would be
a uniform document to make the jobs of INS officials - who deal with dozens of
different birth certificates and photo ID cards - a little bit easier. Because
of a U.S. statute that says that planes must be cleared in 45 minutes, Cadman's
staff of 800 has to examine documents from the 600 million people who pour into
Florida's airports and ports yearly faster than you can say visa'' - usually in
about 15 seconds or less.

With our resources, I think we're doing a damn good job,'' he said, defending
his organization against a barrage of questions about the thousands of illegal
immigrants that enter the country and the approximate 4,000 that take Florida's
prison beds from homegrown criminals.

Cadman also prefers to prevent immigrants he'd deport anyway from ever setting
foot on American soil - meaning, catching them at London's Heathrow Airport or
in the Bahamas, and tell them then to forget it. Off American land, the burden
of proof is on the person; in America, it's on the INS. And the deportation
process drains thousands of hours and dollars, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              211 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 24, 1994 FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

INS' AREA DIRECTOR FAVORS NATIONAL ID CARDS

BYLINE: COURTNEY RUBIN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 322 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is a ''horrible bureaucracy,'' and
Walter Cadman is proud to say he's a bureaucrat.

''Democrats and Republicans fight it out in Washington, and we do what they tell
us,'' said Cadman, district director of immigration for Florida and the Bahamas.

In other words, don't blame me if you don't like policies, he told about 40
members of the South County Young Republicans Thursday night at Addison's
Restaurant in Boca Raton.

But if he were in Washington, things would be different. He'd institute a
national identification card, give current laws some teeth and encourage the INS
to set up more checkpoints in airports and ports abroad.

ID cards don't necessarily mean Big Brother is watching over you, he said.  You
wouldn't have to whip them out at toll booths or restaurants, but they would be
a uniform document to make the jobs of INS officials - who deal with dozens of
different birth certificates and photo ID cards - a little bit easier. Because
of a U.S. statute that says that planes must be cleared in 45 minutes, Cadman's
staff of 800 has to examine documents from the 600 million people who pour into
Florida's airports and ports yearly faster than you can say ''visa'' - usually
in about 15 seconds or less.

''With our resources, I think we're doing a damn good job,'' he said, defending
his organization against a barrage of questions about the thousands of illegal
immigrants that enter the country and the approximate 4,000 that take Florida's
prison beds from homegrown criminals.

Cadman also prefers to prevent immigrants he'd deport anyway from ever setting
foot on American soil - meaning, catching them at London's Heathrow Airport or
in the Bahamas, and tell them then to forget it. Off American land, the burden
of proof is on the person; in America, it's on the INS. And the deportation
process drains thousands of hours and dollars, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              212 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 28, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

JOHNSTON NOT HELPING ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 114 words


As the mother of two public school students, I have seen firsthand the crowding
effects out-of-control immigration has on local schools. Taking that factor into
consideration along with the fact that six Florida newspapers found immigration
control highest on voters' list of concerns, I find it unbelievable that U.S.
Rep. Harry Johnston, D-West Palm Beach, promoted a bill to provide more money
and services to immigrant children that was incorporated in the Elementary and
Secondary Education bill now pending in the Senate.

Harry Johnston is not working with us, he's actually working against us. I hope
voters remember this at the polls.

JoAnn K. Peart

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              213 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      June 28, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

JOHNSTON NOT HELPING ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 115 words


As the mother of two public school students, I have seen firsthand the crowding
effects out-of-control immigration has on local schools. Taking that factor into
consideration along with the fact that six Florida newspapers found immigration
control highest on voters' list of concerns, I find it unbelievable that U.S.
Rep. Harry Johnston, D-West Palm Beach, promoted a bill to provide more money
and services to immigrant children that was incorporated in the Elementary and
Secondary Education bill now pending in the Senate.

Harry Johnston is not working with us, he's actually working against us. I hope
voters remember this at the polls.

JoAnn K. Peart

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              214 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               June 29, 1994 WEDNESDAY, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SMUGGLED HAITIANS PAID UP TO $ 1,000

BYLINE: ELISA SMITH; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 301 words


The Haitians who landed on Hutchinson Island on Sunday paid $ 800 to $ 1,000
each and two of the 29 are suspected of smuggling the refugees from the Bahamas,
Border Patrol officials said Tuesday.

No charges have been filed.

The refugees arrived on a 20-foot boat that landed early Sunday near Normandy
Beach. The boat has a Florida registration, but was not reported stolen, U.S.
Border Patrol spokesman Mike Sheehy said. Officials are still checking on who
owns the boat.

Eleven men, seven women and 11 children were released to Catholic Community
Services of Miami on Sunday evening after they were interviewed at Border Patrol
offices at the Port of Palm Beach. The group offers temporary housing for
refugees and helps them find relatives.

Rather than take the chance of separating the children from their parents or
relatives, we released the entire group,'' Sheehy said.

The refugees eventually will have to appear for an immigration hearing, Sheehy
said.

Immigration officials believe two people on the boat were main participants in
the smuggling, Sheehy said. Their names were not released. Officials are
investigating whether others outside of the group were involved, Sheehy said.

Because of inconsistent testimony by the refugees, charges have not been filed,
he said.

Convicted smugglers face a five-year prison term and $ 5,000 fine for each
refugee brought into the United States.

Because of the bright lighting on Hutchinson Island shores, it is very
possible'' that the island was the planned destination, Sheehy said.

So far, no maps have been found on the boat, Sheehy said.

The landing was the second time in five months that Haitian refugees have landed
near Hutchinson Island.

Four Haitians drowned and 26 landed safely off the island in February.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              215 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 29, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

FLA. FIRST TO APPLY FOR FEDERAL AID FOR IMMIGRATION; LISTS TOTAL LOSSES

BYLINE: LARRY KAPLOW; Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Florida became the first state to apply for money from a federal immigration aid
fund Tuesday, as Gov. Lawton Chiles moved quickly to take advantage of new
federal rules states can use to get reimbursed for immigration costs.

The U.S. Department of Justice set up rules for applying for the money from the
Immigration Emergency Fund earlier this month. And although there is only $ 35
million in the account, Florida is requesting $ 1 billion for expenses that
Chiles said the state has paid in the past four years.

Chiles aides said, however, they wanted to point out the state's overall losses
to immigration - which it blames on federal foreign policy.

The application follows up Chiles' filing of a lawsuit on behalf of the state
against the federal government. Today in Miami, the governor will oversee the
beginning of a new policy agreed to by the federal government to deport illegal
aliens in Florida prisons.

The application to the emergency fund is part of the overall cry from Chiles for
federal help on immigration.

We want to continue to make the point that the state has incurred these
expenses,'' Chiles aide Tom Herndon said.

The expenses are calculated back to October 1990, which was the time period with
the best documentation, Herndon said. The majority of the expenses listed is $
858 million for education of students born in other countries.

The tally includes costs for documented as well as undocumented, immigrants and
does not figure in any of the economic benefits - such as labor or sales or
property taxes - provided by immigrants to the state.

Julie Anbender, a spokeswoman with the Justice Department, said the department
is commissioning a study on the impact of immigration to establish ways to
assess how much states have spent on them.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              216 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

               June 29, 1994 WEDNESDAY, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

SMUGGLED HAITIANS PAID UP TO $ 1,000

BYLINE: ELISA SMITH; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 303 words


The Haitians who landed on Hutchinson Island on Sunday paid $ 800 to $ 1,000
each and two of the 29 are suspected of smuggling the refugees from the Bahamas,
Border Patrol officials said Tuesday.

No charges have been filed.

The refugees arrived on a 20-foot boat that landed early Sunday near Normandy
Beach. The boat has a Florida registration, but was not reported stolen, U.S.
Border Patrol spokesman Mike Sheehy said. Officials are still checking on who
owns the boat.

Eleven men, seven women and 11 children were released to Catholic Community
Services of Miami on Sunday evening after they were interviewed at Border Patrol
offices at the Port of Palm Beach. The group offers temporary housing for
refugees and helps them find relatives.

''Rather than take the chance of separating the children from their parents or
relatives, we released the entire group,'' Sheehy said.

The refugees eventually will have to appear for an immigration hearing, Sheehy
said.

Immigration officials believe two people on the boat were main participants in
the smuggling, Sheehy said. Their names were not released. Officials are
investigating whether others outside of the group were involved, Sheehy said.

Because of inconsistent testimony by the refugees, charges have not been filed,
he said.

Convicted smugglers face a five-year prison term and $ 5,000 fine for each
refugee brought into the United States.

Because of the bright lighting on Hutchinson Island shores, it is ''very
possible'' that the island was the planned destination, Sheehy said.

So far, no maps have been found on the boat, Sheehy said.

The landing was the second time in five months that Haitian refugees have landed
near Hutchinson Island.

Four Haitians drowned and 26 landed safely off the island in February.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              217 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 29, 1994 WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

FLA. FIRST TO APPLY FOR FEDERAL AID FOR IMMIGRATION; LISTS TOTAL LOSSES

BYLINE: LARRY KAPLOW; Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Florida became the first state to apply for money from a federal immigration aid
fund Tuesday, as Gov. Lawton Chiles moved quickly to take advantage of new
federal rules states can use to get reimbursed for immigration costs.

The U.S. Department of Justice set up rules for applying for the money from the
Immigration Emergency Fund earlier this month. And although there is only $ 35
million in the account, Florida is requesting $ 1 billion for expenses that
Chiles said the state has paid in the past four years.

Chiles aides said, however, they wanted to point out the state's overall losses
to immigration - which it blames on federal foreign policy.

The application follows up Chiles' filing of a lawsuit on behalf of the state
against the federal government. Today in Miami, the governor will oversee the
beginning of a new policy agreed to by the federal government to deport illegal
aliens in Florida prisons.

The application to the emergency fund is part of the overall cry from Chiles for
federal help on immigration.

''We want to continue to make the point that the state has incurred these
expenses,'' Chiles aide Tom Herndon said.

The expenses are calculated back to October 1990, which was the time period with
the best documentation, Herndon said. The majority of the expenses listed is $
858 million for education of students born in other countries.

The tally includes costs for documented as well as undocumented, immigrants and
does not figure in any of the economic benefits - such as labor or sales or
property taxes - provided by immigrants to the state.

Julie Anbender, a spokeswoman with the Justice Department, said the department
is commissioning a study on the impact of immigration to establish ways to
assess how much states have spent on them.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              218 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 12, 1994 TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

HELP ON WAY FOR IMMIGRATION BURDENS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 203 words


The recent letter Johnston not helping on immigration'' criticized my efforts to
secure federal money to reimburse Florida for the costs associated with high
levels of immigration. The writer correctly points out that South Florida
schools are overwhelmed with the responsibility to educate both immigrant and
American-born students. Since the Supreme Court ruled in Pyler vs. Doe that the
states must educate all children, schools have had to accept and pay for the
education of immigrant children.

My efforts have resulted in an increase in federal financing for school
districts such as Palm Beach County's to offset the costs of educating immigrant
children. Immigration is a federal responsibility, and the federal government
has an obligation to help pay the costs of serving immigrant children who have
special needs that put added burdens on the typical public school budget.

Both immigrant and American-born students have been shortchanged as a result of
federal neglect. The federal financing I have pursued for our schools benefits
all children. I am sure the writer of this letter would find no fault with that.

U.S. Rep. Harry Johnston

19th Congressional District of Florida

Washington

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              219 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      July 25, 1994, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

TELL REFUGEES THEY'LL BE INVASION FORCE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 94 words


Instead of preventing Haitian immigrants from entering this country, we should
encourage them to do so - with one requirement: The refugees should be notified
beforehand that if the United States decides on military intervention, those who
are fit and able would be the first troops to land on Haitian soil.

This specification would cause those who contemplate the exodus here to think
twice.

The surge of immigrants would decrease when they realized that they would
eventually make an about-face in their quest for freedom.

George Debate

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              220 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 26, 1994, TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

A FAIR WAY OUT OF OUR IMMIGRATION CRISIS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 180 words


Our government keeps telling us that it knows what is best for us and that most
things are too complex for us to understand. The solution to our immigration
crisis, which is causing enormous tax burdens and destroying the fabric of our
society, seems simple enough to me.

First, in regard to Haiti - lift the embargo and let Haiti solve its own
problems, since exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide has proclaimed that
calling for an invasion is against his country's constitution and he has
dismissed the idea of training Haitians here to go back and overthrow the
military.

Second, repeal the Cuban Adjustment Act, which gives Cubans preferential
treatment and allows them in without seeking asylum or going through the quota
system. Cuba is no longer a threat to our national interests. The act is
obsolete.

Lastly, station our military along the borders stretching from California to
Texas. The Mexican government does this along its southern borders to prevent
Central Americans from entering Mexico.

Am I being too simplistic?

Nancy Jacobs

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              221 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    July 27, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

SEN. FOLEY STANDS UP TO CRITICISM

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 159 words


I am writing in response to the nasty attacks that a letter writer recently
hurled at Sen. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, in ''Foley remarks on immigrants
bigoted.'' The writer seems more interested in discrediting Sen. Foley than he
is in dealing with the facts about the impact of immigration on our community
and our nation.

While it is true that not all immigrants are criminals and government
freeloaders, Sen. Foley never said that they were. He simply made the point that
taxpayers should not have to foot the bill for the rapidly escalating costs
associated with those illegal aliens who come to our country and depend on
government services instead of working for a living.

Instead of being ridiculed, Sen. Foley should be commended for having the
courage to stand up to the politically correct opinion leaders who don't seem to
understand how far off track our country has gotten in recent years.

Julie Romani

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              222 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     July 28, 1994, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

GET-TOUGH RHETORIC FILLS GOP CANDIDATE DEBATE

BYLINE: LARRY KAPLOW; Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


The five Republican candidates for governor tried to out-tough each other on
crime, immigration and welfare reform in the first full debate since they
officially qualified to run last week.

Sen. Ander Crenshaw of Jacksonville said if he were elected he would rent Blue
Bird buses to drive illegal immigrants to Washington so they can spend the
weekend with President Clinton.

Insurance Commissioner Tom Gallagher repeated calls for a temporary halt to
legal immigration and for a state requirement to prove residency before issuing
driver licenses.

Miami businessman Jeb Bush blamed welfare for creating the ''pathology'' of
crime by taking away incentives for hard work. And, when a questioner from the
audience insisted the candidates say what they will do for black communities,
Bush told her ''probably nothing'' except clear the way of government
interference so that people can ''pursue their dreams.''

Angelica Gonzalez of Tampa called his answer to her question ''outrageous.''

The town hall meeting in front of a studio audience of about 70 people gave the
candidates a chance to vie for conservative Republican voters with the primary
six weeks off. The winner will likely face incumbent Democratic Gov. Lawton
Chiles.

The debate was sponsored by The St. Petersburg Times, Channel 13 WTVT-TV Tampa
and the Florida Federation of Republican Women. The topics were chosen according
to the results of a media poll this spring that identified topics most
concerning Floridians.

The candidates took only a couple of shots at Chiles - reminding viewers in
their conclusions that he's the real problem in state government - and spent
most of the hour giving their stump speeches and trying to set themselves apart
from each other.

Tallahassee lawyer Ken Connor said he would help cut government waste by
declining the large pensions now accorded to top state officials. That prompted
Bush to say that he also would decline any government pension.

Secretary of State Jim Smith touted experience gained when he was attorney
general, saying the state needs a person with a law enforcement background.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              223 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 1, 1994, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

WHO WILL PAY FOR IMMIGRATION AID?

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 154 words


A letter written by Rep. Harry Johnston, D-West Palm Beach, indicates that
seeking federal monies is an answer to our immigration burdens (''Help on way
for immigration burdens''). It is not! Feeding more money into a bad policy
solves nothing. Where does he think these federal dollars are going to come
from? From us, that's where. For Floridians it's a no-win situation. We pay no
matter what.

The answer is to cut off all immigration for 10 years and return this state and
country to financial soundness and common sense. We are not the dumping grounds
for the world's problems.

Mr. Johnston, don't we have enough of our own tired, poor, sick, homeless and
jobless to tend to first, without policing the world? I also ask Mr. Johnston:
Who is going to help the U.S. when we're dragged down to Third World status? My
answer is: no one. What's yours? How about our interests?

George Weide

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Rep. Harry Johnston (Mug)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              224 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   August 10, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

5 CUBANS HELD IN PROBE OF BOAT HIJACKING

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


As U.S. officials Tuesday got a report of another boat hijacking off Cuba, five
refugees accused of commandeering a ferry from a Havana harbor last week spent
another day detained at an immigration facility.

Their detention - a rarity involving asylum-seeking Cubans - comes as a new wave
of boat takeovers by desperate refugees is becoming increasingly violent.

Cubans who have forcibly overpowered boat or plane crews - usually government
owned - to escape the communist island are routinely released into the South
Florida community. Moreover, none has been prosecuted by U.S. officials on
hijacking-related charges since 1980, when three Cubans who seized a fishing
vessel at knifepoint were acquitted of kidnapping.

U.S. officials are saying little about the detention of the five Cubans, who
allegedly hijacked the vessel brandishing a grenade, pistols and machetes.

But the five men held at the federal Krome Detention Center in West Dade are
under investigation for their roles in the Aug. 3 takeover of the ferry, La
Coubre, said Kendall Coffey, U.S. Attorney for South Florida. Coffey would not
say if they face criminal charges in the hijacking.

''The matter is under review,'' said Coffey. ''I can only confirm that they are
being detained.''

Monday's hijacking was the fourth reported takeover in three weeks, Cuban
officials said. Cuba notified U.S. officials that a Cuban navy lieutenant was
killed and four sailors forced overboard in the hijacking Monday of a boat
leased by the Cuban military out of the Port of Mariel, west of Havana. The
hijackers reportedly stopped to pick up passengers and headed to Key West.

U.S. Coast Guard officials Tuesday picked up 26 Cubans aboard a 50-foot
pea-green Cuban vessel about 60 miles southwest of Key West. U.S. officials were
to interview the Cubans to determine if they were involved in the reported
hijacking.

''The United States should send back these hijackers because this is a crime,''
said Rafael Dausa, political officer of the Cuban Interest Section in
Washington.

The five detained men from last week's hijacking were among a group of 190
refugees aboard the Havana ferry when it ran out of fuel in international
waters.

In an unusual move, Cuban patrol boats called for the Coast Guard to take 117 of
the refugees to Key West, where all but the five detainees were released. Cuban
officials took 73 non-defecting Cubans back to Havana.

Federal officials would not identify the five detainees.

Some Cuban exile leaders speculate that the U.S. government may be cracking down
on hijackers because of Cuban leader Fidel Castro's recent threat of triggering
a large-scale U.S.-bound exodus from the island.

U.S. officials deny any shift in policy, insisting that Cuban hijackers have
always been targets of criminal investigations.

''I don't know whether any Cubans have been prosecuted for breaking hijacking
laws, but anybody who hijacks an airplane or ship is subject to prosecution,''
said U.S. State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Young.

Cuban exile leaders have not protested the detention of the five refugees at
Krome, as they have criminal investigations of Cuban pilots who have diverted
planeloads of defectors to South Florida. But many are not aware of the
detention. In recent days, the exile leaders have supported the Clinton
Administration in urging Castro's opponents to stay in Cuba and help topple his
government.

The most vocal opponent to prosecuting Cuban hijackers is U.S. Rep. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart,=R-Miami. He said Tuesday that even violent takeovers by
freedom-seeking Cubans are justified.

''We should not become prosecutors for Castro,'' said Diaz-Bal-art.

Some in the Cuban exile community are concerned that Washington may be
responding to Cuban government demands to prosecute the hijackers.

''I assume that the five are being investigated because the ferry hijacking
involved special circumstances,'' said Rafael Penalver, a Miami lawyer and exile
activist. ''I sincerely hope it's not because of any request by the Cuban
government.''

RECENT HIJACKINGS

The most recent hijackings of boats by Cubans:

AUG. 5: A ferry was hijacked from a Havana harbor.

AUG. 3: A hijacked ferry carrying 193 passengers ran out of fuel at sea. The
Coast Guard came to its aid after a request from Cuba; 76 passengers returned to
Cuba.

JULY 26: A Coast Guard cutter intercepted the Regla ferry, which had been
hijacked by a group of youths, and took 14 people to Key West. Nine others
returned to Cuba.

JUNE 4: Cuban gunboats fired on a freighter loaded with refugees who hijacked
the vessel from the port of Mariel.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions. - Info box at end of text.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              225 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 13, 1994, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS WILL FLOOD IN FOR FREE CARE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 123 words


I have asked U.S. Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, and Florida Sens. Connie
Mack and Bob Graham, Republican and Democrat respectively, to define universal
health-care coverage for all Americans. To date, no answer.  So I have come up
with my definition. All Americans: ''Any individual who resides within the
borders of the United States at any given time.'' Note: No health-care proposal
mentions U.S. citizens. Universal: ''The flood gates once again will open to the
international community.''

You think immigration is totally and financially out of control. You'll have to
stand in line to receive reduced Third World medical care, if available. That
will financially destroy this nation.

Wesley Bell

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              226 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 13, 1994, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

CUBAN EXILE FACES CHARGES FOR RESCUE

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 842 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Felix Sanchez slipped a rickety 25-foot fishing boat onto Cuba's northeastern
coast and picked up his wife, grandchildren and in-laws - 13 relatives and
friends in all - four weeks ago.

When Sanchez's boat ran into trouble on the return trip, the U.S. Coast Guard
helped him to the Florida Keys. That may be the last helping hand he can expect
from the U.S. government for a while.

In the past week, Fidel Castro has threatened to unleash Mariel II, another wave
of Cuban refugees aimed at Florida. Worried U.S. officials have responded by
promising to prosecute anyone who plucks people from the island. Not since the
1980 Mariel boatlift has the U.S. pursued such a case.

Sanchez and his lawyer say the timing of his trip couldn't have been worse. He
may be the first Cuban exile to test the government's new resolve to enforce
immigrant smuggling laws.

As soon as the Coast Guard alerted the U.S. Border Patrol upon his return,
Sanchez became the focus of an investigation. The patrol seized his boat, his
driver license and residency papers. Without documentation, Sanchez said, he
could not resume his job as a hot dog vendor. And there's been no outpouring of
support from the Cuban exile community.

Sanchez faces possible charges of smuggling undocumented immigrants, a felony
that carries a 10-year maximum prison sentence. On Wednesday, he is scheduled to
report to an immigration judge because he left and re-entered this country
illegally. Sanchez had been a legal resident since 1992, when he first escaped
Cuba on a boat, as do thousands of refugees every year.

''I didn't know very much about the laws of this country,'' said the soft-spoken
Sanchez, 52, who also picked up two Cuban rafters during his perilous journey
last month. ''I had no idea what I was doing was illegal. I was just desperate
to get my family.''

Sanchez's rescue mission was not that different from the daring flight of
prominent defector and former Cuban Air Force Maj. Orestes Lorenzo. Lorenzo flew
a Cessna into Cuba, scooped up his family and returned to South Florida. He
became a celebrity, has written a bestseller, Wings of the Morning, and has
appeared on the Tonight Show.

Not Sanchez.

Leaders of the Cuban exile community have supported the Clinton administration's
warnings against attempting a second boatlift. Sanchez's case has received
little attention, and his family has struggled financially.

''People are desperate to bring their relatives over, and we sympathize,'' said
Fernando Rojas, spokesman for the Cuban American National Foundation. ''But this
country has its laws.''

Sanchez's attorney, Miami lawyer Ellis Rubin, will argue at the immigration
hearing that Sanchez, who took his son Ramon, 32, on the rescue mission, made
the trip because he feared for his wife, Gladys. She had been denied a U.S. visa
and was being harassed by Cuban officials for attempting to escape Cuba in
December.

''I expected to be congratulated upon my return,'' Felix Sanchez said. ''Now we
barely have enough for the grandchildren to eat because I can't work.''

For two years, Sanchez saved his earnings from selling hot dogs from a vendor's
cart. With the help of three sons who live with him in Hialeah, he bought the
fishing boat for the rescue mission with $ 3,000. For months, Sanchez kept his
wife informed of the pending trip. They mostly spoke in code by phone and he
sent her letters with cash. If the cash was still in the envelopes, the couple
knew the mail was not opened by the Cuban authorities.

During the night of July 15, Sanchez, son Ramon and two companions set out for
Cuba. On their way, they picked up two rafters headed north. The pair were too
emaciated and dehydrated to continue on their own, so they agreed to join the
rescue mission.

Four days later, the group made it to the waters off Sanchez's hometown, Gibara,
at 11 p.m. Their vessel had barely managed 6 mph. Ramon Sanchez then used the
rafters' inner tubes to carry himself and a cross-country bicycle to shore. He
pedaled along a dark, shoreline road. Along the way, he saw no police or
military patrols, just a drunk sleeping on the side of the road.

''I got very emotional as I rode the bicycle,'' Ramon Sanchez said. ''I was full
with great anticipation at seeing my family again.''

After a little more than a mile, Ramon Sanchez reached a small house where his
mother, wife Adriana, and 6-year-old daughter, Yaimara, were waiting with
relatives and friends. The group quickly took off on foot through thick brush,
staying clear of the highway. Ramon Sanchez spotted his father's fishing vessel
and they safely got on board with the help of the inner tubes.

Twenty hours later, a U.S. Coast Guard helicopter spotted their boat in
international waters. Its engine was failing. A Coast Guard vessel picked up
Sanchez's group and towed his boat to the Keys.

''We don't really know what's going to happen to us now,'' said Gladys Sanchez.
''But we believe everything will work out because we know we truly did nothing
wrong.''

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C) & MAP (B&W), 1. (C) Photo by Jennifer Podis, Felix Sanchez
stole into Cuba in a boat to bring home his wife, Gladys, and grandkids., 2.
(B&W) STAFF GRAPHIC, Map outlining Cuba and Florida

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              227 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   August 17, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL TO GUARD COAST BY HELICOPTER

BYLINE: WILLIAM HOWARD; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


The U.S. Border Patrol will patrol the ocean off Palm Beach County and the
Treasure Coast for an ''extended period of time'' and will enlist help from the
U.S. Coast Guard to stop smugglers from dropping illegal immigrants on area
beaches.

Neil Richards, agent in charge for the West Palm Beach station, met the border
patrol helicopter Tuesday morning. ''I've had five loads (of immigrants) in
three weeks,'' Richards said, standing by the Hughes 500 helicopter. ''This is
my only way of stopping them.''

Up to 24 Haitians came ashore at John D. MacArthur Beach State Park early July
22 and hid in the woods. The border patrol caught some, after a ranger spotted
them, but about 10 people escaped.

The border patrol's helicopter travels 140 mph and can cover a lot of territory
on a routine patrol, pilot Royce Coe said.

The West Palm Beach Border Patrol office, based at the Port of Palm Beach, has
four agents responsible for covering eight counties and 120 miles of coastline
from Boca Raton to Sebastian.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              228 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 19, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

DEALING WITH CUBAN IMMIGRATION

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 273 words


FLORIDA'S PLAN

THE NATIONAL GUARD: Up to 1,000 National Guardsmen are on standby and could be
used for mass health care and feeding. As of Thursday night, 20 guardsmen were
in Key West to help with organization if troops are called.

FDLE: Members of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement would be used, as
needed, for crowd control and security. So far, seven officers have been called
to Key West.

HRS: The state Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services is prepared to
do health screenings for dehydration, broken limbs or other injuries immigrants
might suffer on their journeys.

DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS: The department would provide mass transportation and
housing for refugees.

LAW ENFORCEMENT: Up to 7,000 officers from Monroe County to Indian River County
could be sworn in as U.S. marshals, which would give them federal powers to
detain and process refugees if the federal government activates its emergency
plan.

WHAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS DOING

INTERCEPTIONS: The U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Customs will continue to intercept
boats from Cuba.

INS: The Immigration and Naturalization Service will process immigrants to
determine their status and try to establish if they have relatives in the areas.

DETENTION of immigrants, possibly at Homestead Air Force Base and Boca Chica.


FACETS THAT COULD BE ENACTED

SEIZURE of the boats and criminal prosecution of the boat owners attempting to
bring in refugees.

A NAVAL BLOCKADE stretching across the Florida Straits between Key West and
Havana.

QUICK RESETTLEMENT outside Florida of refugees who succeed in reaching our
shores.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              229 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 19, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

CUBA FLOODING FLORIDA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 281 words


When the Mississippi River flooded the Midwest last year, federal help came
quickly. When a severe earthquake struck Southern California in January, federal
help came quickly. The Cuban refugees coming to Florida by the hundreds each day
pose a similarly uninvited disaster.

So Gov. Chiles is correctly calling on the federal government to help Florida
pay for the consequences of our country's failed immigration and foreign
policies. The state's fate stems from simple geography. If you're leaving Cuba
for the United States, your destination is Florida. The problem is exacerbated
by the Cuban Adjustment Act, which Congress passed in 1966. It virtually
guarantees that any Cuban refugee will become a permanent legal resident after
one year.

It's one thing for Washington to issue an open invitation. It's quite another to
pay for the party. Some school districts and hospitals in Florida are buckling
under the strain of teaching and caring for the legal and illegal immigrants who
are already here. Jackson Memorial Hospital in Dade is where virtually all poor
immigrant mothers go to have their babies.

Late Thursday Attorney General Janet Reno said the government would begin
detaining Cuban refugees, but that's all she said. No one will know the details
until they are revealed by President Clinton today. But the governor's comment
was the most timely: ''A true emergency exists for the state of Florida.''

Gov. Chiles has already sued the feds seeking reimbursement for the expenses of
illegal immigration. No money has come yet. The message in the lawsuit and from
the governor, however, is simple: Washington must either stop the flow or pay
the dough.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              230 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 20, 1994, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

PRESIDENT'S POLICY REVERSAL MAY PAY POLITICAL DIVIDENDS

BYLINE: SCOTT SHEPARD Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton's decision Friday to reverse 30 years of foreign policy and
start detaining Cuban refugees could reap him some positive political results on
the domestic front - if it succeeds.

And that's a big if, say immigration experts.

''I suspect the hope at the White House is this will choke off the flow of
refugees permanently,'' Kathleen Newland, an immigration expert at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. ''But I think it is a short-term solution at
best, and I suspect we will see it change again very soon.''

At the heart of the new policy, then, is an attempt by Clinton to avoid the kind
of political trouble former President Carter experienced as a result of the 1980
refugee influx known as the Mariel boatlift.

In announcing his new policy at a White House news conference, Clinton recalled
in detail how Fidel Castro was allowed to ''export his political and economic
problems'' to the United States during the Carter presidency.

''We had jails open, we had mental hospitals open, all in an attempt to export
all the problems of Cuba to the United States,'' he said. ''We tried it that way
once. It was wrong then and it's wrong now and I'm not going to let it happen
again.''

Clinton, perhaps more than anyone besides Carter, understands the political risk
of repeating the Mariel boatlift, in which some 120,000 Cuban refu gees,
including many criminals and mental patients, were allowed to enter the United
States.

The Mariel boatlift contributed not only to Carter's reelection defeat in 1980
but also to Clinton's, who was governor of Arkansas at the time.

When hundreds of Cuban refugees held at Fort Chafee, Ark., began to riot on June
2, 1980, Clinton called out the National Guard, but he was severely criticized
for waiting too long to respond to the rioters.

There are possible political pluses for Clinton as a result of the new policy,
however.

For one thing, it may silence some members of the Congressional Black Caucus,
who have assailed as racist the U.S. policy of detaining Haitians while
automatically granting asylum to Cuban refugees. Clinton desperately needs their
votes for passage of his stalled crime bill.

In addition, it is likely to be popular in vote-rich California, where
Republican Gov. Pete Wilson has been demanding the administration take steps to
prevent an influx of illegal immigrants.

Likewise, it probably won't cost Clinton too many votes in South Florida, where
the Cuban-American community has long been heavily Republican.

The political risk, however, is that now, having called Castro's hand, the
president will be forced to take more actions to end Castro's regime.

Within minutes of the president's news conference, for example, Rafael Penaiver,
a prominent activist in Miami's Cuban community, called on the administration to
''endorse and support the downfall of Castro.''

At his news conference, Clinton reminded his questioners that the United States
has done ''more than any other country to try to bring an end'' to the Castro
government. But in vowing to continue to pressure Castro, the president would
not commit to do anything beyond ''reasonable means.''

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C & B&W) & MAP (C), 1. (C) GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, A
U.S. Coast Guardsman punches a hole in a raft after its occupants were rescued
Friday afternoon 39 miles south of Key West., 2. (B&W) THE ASSOCIATED PRESS,
President Clinton tells a news conference Friday that illegal refugees from Cuba
will be barred from entering the United States., 3. (C) STEVE MADDEN/Staff
Artist, THE CUBAN EXODUS, As part of President Clinton's new Cuban refugee
policy. Cuban refugees are being transferred from Key West to Krome Detention
Center and Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              231 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 26, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

RESIST INEVITABLE PLEA TO LET REFUGEES ENTER

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 527 words


Few photographs are more emotional than those of immigrants. The one on
Tuesday's front page of The Post showed a 2-year-old girl being carried by her
father. They were at Guantanamo naval base, having been picked up at sea.
Looking at the picture, it would have been easy to conclude that America's
policy of intercepting the immigrants was wrong. That's why we should never base
policy on pictures.

If the exodus from Cuba to Florida continues at anything near its present rate -
an average of more than 2,000 per day since Saturday - calls will inevitably
come for the United States to change its policy and admit the refugees. With
federal officials now predicting that as many as 65,000 refugees may be sent to
Guantanamo, people will complain about the expense, not just the morality of the
policy.

But harsh as it seems, when you get past the emotion of Mariel II, this refugee
exodus represents a threat to the U.S. in general and to Florida in particular.
President Clinton can't change the policy. This state simply can't afford to
accept tens of thousands of Cuban refugees at once. And if Gov. Chiles hadn't
pressured the Clinton administration so forcefully last week, those refugees
would be coming. Then Florida, which can't even put all public school students
in regular classrooms, would have had to pay for them.

As this crisis shows, immigration policy remains one of the most controversial
subjects in this country. Mariel II has fired up the debate again. Too often,
however, that debate carries all the depth of a talk show: Immigrants have made
America great, so we should let in anyone who wants to come; immigrants are
freeloading bums, so we should lock the door forever.

Extreme views miss the point. America has been made great by immigrants, those
who came with skills or education or simply gratitude for a new start. But the
immigrants of the past 20 years have tended to come with fewer skills and less
education, according to the 1990 book The Impact of Immigrants on the U.S.
Economy. These more recent immigrants require more services, some ordered by
federal courts. Of the 125,000 public school students in Palm Beach County, more
than 15,000 are in the English for Speakers of Other Languages program. That's
roughly 10 times the number of six years ago.

Ultimately, however, immigration is intertwined with politics. We sought Chinese
immigrants in the 19th century, for examples, so they could build the first
railroads. We took in many Vietnamese refugees in the 1970s because we felt
obligated to them after our involvement in that country's civil war. And despite
protestations from various interest groups, the U.S. still accepts more legal
immigrants than any other country - a minimum of 700,000 this year, dropping to
675,000 in 1995.

Even closing the borders wouldn't guarantee control. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service estimates that half of all illegal immigrants came in
legally; they overstayed their time and disappeared. But we can work on those
problems. We can't let a foreign leader give us more immigration problems than
we can handle. That's the whole picture of Mariel II.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              232 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 28, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

CUBAN CRISIS: WHAT DO WE DO NOW?

BYLINE: BOB GRAHAM

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1275 words


In April 1980, Fidel Castro opened the port of Mariel and began a mass exodus of
Cuban immigrants to the Florida coast. In five months, more that 125,000
refugees, including convicted felons and mental patients, fled to American
shores.

I was governor of Florida at the time, and the experience left a lasting impact
on me and my state.

My most vivid images are of the human faces of the Mariel boatlift: an elderly
woman climbing out of her brother's boat in Key West and kneeling to kiss the
cement pier; a teenage boy, newly arrived to America, weeping after relatives in
Miami rejected his desperate call for help; thousands of immigrants living
tenuously under interstate bridges in downtown Miami; a poised and graceful
young Cuban woman being honored only five years after the boatlift as the
valedictorian of Miami High School on the 30th anniversary of my graduation. I
also remember the outbreak of riots in Liberty City.

With the events of the past few weeks, we are confronted with conditions similar
to those in 1980. Castro has again loosened his borders, allowing Cubans to flee
their homeland in massive numbers while blaming the United States for the
resulting exodus. Meanwhile, the Clinton administration is grappling with how to
handle another refugee problem.

We must now ask what we have learned from our experience 14 years ago, and how
we should proceed from here.

Defining the problem. As we respond to the current crisis, we must remember that
the refugees are a symptom of the real problem - Fidel Castro. Fourteen years
ago we focused solely on the symptom and ignored the cause of the problem. We
tried only to contain the wave of Cubans fleeing Castro's repression but did
nothing to punish Castro or hasten the downfall of his Communist regime.

By pressuring Castro early on, we could have forced him to close his borders and
avoided many of the disturbing consequences of the boatlift. Several of our
actions since the massive boatlift have been aimed at Castro and have proven to
be effective.

In 1983, for example, the U.S. established Radio Marti to promote our policy and
encourage democratic reforms. In 1992, Congress passed the Cuban Democracy Act,
which tightened the embargo on Cuba while allowing for the possibility of
assistance to the Cuban people.

Planning. The federal government and South Florida were totally unprepared for a
massive influx of refugees 14 years ago. The Carter administration vacillated
with respect to U.S. policy toward Cuba and made a series of hurried decisions.
The result was the largest exodus of Cubans, including thousands of prisoners
and criminally insane people, that Florida had ever seen.

The U.S. reaction to recent events in Cuba has followed a surprisingly similar
path. As in 1980, what happened in the past few weeks did not occur without
warning.

In mid-June of this year, the U.S. received clear indications that Castro was
about to revert to his old strategy of relieving internal pressure by
encouraging or at least acquiescing to a mass exodus. Despite this advance
warning, and the subsequent increase in rafters along the Straits of Florida,
little was done.

Gov. Chiles and the Florida congressional delegation urged the administration to
test the emergency immigration plan formulated in the aftermath of Mariel, but
no such test was conducted.

As a consequence, the emergency plan was hastily instituted in mid-August with
some unfortunate results. Homestead Air Force Base, intended to serve as a
processing site for refugees, did not have the minimal equipment and supplies to
carry out that function. Boca Chica Naval Air Station was then rushed into
unexpected service as an additional processing site.

More important, the administration applied no discernible pressure against
Castro after the first warnings. My experience and observation with Fidel Castro
is that he senses weakness and will take full advantage of it but will respect
and respond to strength.

Where to go from here? We must do now what we should have done weeks ago - focus
on Castro, the cause of this exodus.

First, we should ask our allies that have relationships with Cuba, including
Canada and Spain, to urge Castro to abandon his exodus policy. If Castro
refuses, we should urge these countries to impose sanctions against Castro, such
as decreasing tourist flights to Cuba. Coupled with the sanctions imposed by the
U.S., these measures would have drastic economic and political consequences in
Cuba.

Second, we should ensure that Castro is not planting criminals and other
''undesirables'' among the boatloads of refugees. Castro's most devious act in
1980 was his release of prisoners, criminally insane people and people with
communicable diseases onto refugee boats.

We must not let that happen again. The U.S. should separate Castro's
undesirables from the other refugees and send them back to Cuba, with or without
Castro's consent. We should not accept responsibility for these people by
warehousing them in federal prisons, as we did in 1980.

Our resolve on this issue would send a strong message to Castro that we will not
tolerate that tactic again. It would also send a positive signal to the Cuban
people and energize their resolve to overthrow the Castro regime.

Third, we must increase direct broadcasts to Cuba from sources such as Radio and
TV Marti. Our current efforts to expand TV Marti's broadcast time and to move TV
Marti to a UHF channel in order to avoid signal jamming should be accelerated.

Fourth, as we address Castro's intransigence, we must ensure that President
Clinton's safe-haven policy is workable. The administration has taken the
appropriate first step by expanding the capacity of the refugee facility at
Guantanamo Bay to 40,000.

But at current levels of exodus, the facility will still fill up soon. The Turks
and Caicos Islands, which are close to agreement with the U.S. on accepting
Cuban refugees, have room only for a day or two's worth of rafters. Once the new
Panamanian president takes power, another 10,000 Cubans can be accommodated
there.

This is a good start, but a protracted refugee crisis will soon overwhelm the
facilities that are now available. The U.S. must continue to seek additional
safe-haven sites throughout the Caribbean and Central America and be prepared to
further expand the capacity at Guantanamo if necessary.

During a visit to Krome Detention Center last weekend, I saw some of the faces
of Mariel again. I talked with a Cuban teenager, just arrived in Miami, holding
a handkerchief with the names and numbers of relatives in America stitched onto
it. ''When can I call my brother?'' he asked in broken English.

I also ate lunch at a Cuban-American restaurant where I had once done a workday
as a busboy. I asked a waitress whom I had met on the workday how she felt about
the current situation. ''I have family in Cuba,'' she said, ''but I know this is
what we must endure for the better days that we all pray for.''

These two faces represent the paradox inherent in this situation. Americans are
compassionate people, drawn to the suffering of others with hands extended in
friendship. But the cause of this problem must be remedied for the Cubans'
suffering to be alleviated.

The only way to put an end to this desperate situation is to pursue a policy
that will facilitate the downfall of Castro and the establishment of democracy
in Cuba. Only then will the quality of life in Cuba be improved and the desire
of people to leave be stemmed.

Bob Graham is a Democratic senator from Florida. He wrote this article for The
Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & B&W), 1. (C) Sen. Bob Graham (mug), 2. (C) GREG
LOVETT/Staff Photographer, The USS Coast Guard cutter Padre intercepts Cuban
refugees 40 miles south of Key West on Aug. 19., 3. (B&W) THE ASSOCIATED PRESS,
Residents of Cojimar, Cuba, wave as a raft floats out to sea Wednesday. The
surge started last month when Fidel Castro stopped arresting illegal emigrants.

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              233 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 4, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

CUBANS WILL GET HELP, BUT HAITIANS? GET REAL

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 486 words


For now, and for the first time, Cuban and Haitian refugees entering detention
at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base are equals. It won't last.

Think back to 1980. Two mass migrations began that year, and the way the United
States reacted is instructive. Beginning in April and continuing for six months,
125,000 Cubans entered America in the first Mariel boatlift. American boats
sailed to Cuba to pick up refugees. The stream ended only when Fidel Castro
called it off.

Beginning before Mariel and continuing after it, the number of Haitians trying
to flee the regime of Jean-Claude Duvalier increased. From January 1980 until
September 1981, about 23,000 Haitians entered Florida illegally. But the Cubans
were welcomed and, under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, given preference for
residency. The Haitians were treated quite differently.

Not only were those who were caught deported, the Reagan administration in
September 1981 signed an odious agreement with the Duvalier regime. That
agreement began the Haitian Migrant Interdiction Program, under which U.S. ships
actively searched for Haitian refugees at sea and returned them to
Port-au-Prince and Baby Doc's police. Imagine the outcry if President Reagan had
promised to return Cuban refugees to Castro.

America did not significantly change its immigration policies toward Cuba and
Haiti. Yet something surprising happened in Haiti. Duvalier was driven out and,
after a series of military regimes, democracy came to Haiti in December 1990,
when Jean-Bertrand Aristide became the country's first freely elected president.
He took office in February 1991 and was ousted the following September. During
that brief moment of democracy, virtually no Haitian refugees came to Florida.

For a time, both Presidents Bush and Clinton tried the old policy of Haitian
repatriation. And both embraced Cuban refugees. Then immorality got in the way
of Haitian policy. And sheer numbers of refugees made the Cuban policy
unworkable. So now there is parity at Guantanamo.

Why won't it last? Because the U.S. is negotiating with Castro to let in more
Cubans legally. That won't be offered to Haitians. The old biases remain.

There are some ways, however, that lessons from Cuban policy could benefit
Haiti. America should note that decades of embargoes haven't brought down
Castro. America should note that an entrenched dictator is hard to dislodge, so
we should move forcefully to remove Gen. Raoul Cedras from Haiti before it is
too late. And, yes, America should note the dangers of a botched invasion. The
Bay of Pigs shows the need for overwhelming force in Haiti.

Ultimately, though, the most important lesson comes from Haiti's brief period of
freedom. Immigration measures - whether interdiction or free admission - are
stopgap solutions. The permanent immigration solution will come when people
don't have to leave Haiti and Cuba to find freedom.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              234 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    September 9, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

BIAS AGAINST BLACKS OBVIOUS IN TREATMENT OF IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 160 words


Is the granting of 20,000 residence visas to Cubans a humanitarian gesture or a
political cave-in?

When Fidel Castro prevented Cubans from leaving, he was called a monstrous
dictator. Now he lets them leave and is again criticized. How can we have it
both ways?

Cubans are quoted as saying they come to improve their economic condition, not
primarily as refugees from danger. We are ready to relax immigration rules for
them.

The media report repeatedly that Haitians are being murdered for opposition to
military dictatorship. Therefore, they are truly refugees. Yet look at the
disparity in treatment. Why?

Cubans are described in heroic detail for coming a relatively short distance
compared with the Haitians who are denied residence visas and turned back. Why?

Do we hate blacks so much that we are prepared to make a spectacle of ourselves
before the world by our partiality?

Who believes our explanations?

Harry Epstein

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              235 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 11, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

LACK OF IMMIGRATION STANDARDS HURTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 150 words


Can anyone explain how it is in the best interest of this country to give
''preferential immigration status'' to any group of people who are economically
destitute, speak little if any of the language and almost certainly will be a
great burden on our school and welfare systems?

We used to pick new citizens based on their ability to contribute needed skills,
education, lack of dependency, ability to speak the language, employability - a
system that made sense.

I am not anti-Cuban or anti-Haitian. I would be just as incensed if our
politicians allowed us to be invaded by ''Upper Mongolians'' by the thousands,
with no reasonable standards or limits.

Don't just complain to your neighbor. Write your representatives about how
stupid and unfair the present immigration policy is. All other problems pale in
importance to South Florida's future.

R.F. Slater

Palm Beach Shores

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              236 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 14, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

NEW OPENING TO CUBA, NOT OPEN DOOR TO U.S.

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 500 words


The unresolved crisis over Cuban immigration has been replaced by an unresolved
crisis at the Guantanamo Bay refugee camp.

As long as Cuban refugees remain in Guantanamo, there will be pressure to let
some or all of them come to this country. The agreement between Fidel Castro's
government and the United States deals well with future refugees - they must
apply for official visas - but the refugees at Guantanamo, correctly, aren't
allowed to come directly to America. That may seem unfair. But, overall,
America's foreign policy and immigration policy are more fair and balanced than
they were before Friday's U.S.-Cuba agreement.

The refugees being held at Guantanamo did what tens of thousands of Cubans
before them have done - take to the Florida Straits in rafts - only to be
treated differently from their predecessors. But South Florida couldn't stand
another Mariel. And if refugees at Guantanamo were allowed to come straight to
America, uncontrolled immigration would start again. So the refugees are given
bad options. They can leave the base and apply for one of the 20,000 annual
legal visas. They can try to emigrate to a third country. Or they can stay at
the base indefinitely.

Even if the agreement works as promised, it's not perfect for South Florida.
While the more orderly influx of 20,000 Cubans a year is better than a massive,
unplanned exodus, that's still a large annual burden if most of them come to
South Florida. Gov. Chiles - whose warnings to President Clinton averted a
second Mariel - is right again when he asks the federal government to encourage
many of the new immigrants to settle elsewhere and to provide adequate federal
aid to the states that receive them.

So far the federal government hasn't had definite answers for Florida or for the
thousands of refugees lining up in Havana to seek the new visas. But despite the
agreement's imperfections, President Clinton's less liberal interpretation of
the Cuban Adjustment Act - which in the past had been taken to virtually
guarantee admission to any Cuban refugee - represents a much more rational
immigration policy.

Rationality also is creeping into our Cuba policy. The lessons from the
agreement are that Castro can't be ignored and that it actually can be
beneficial to talk to the Castro regime. Extreme optimism would be misplaced.
It's one thing to get Castro to stop people on rafts. It's another to get him to
give those people a larger say in their government. But presumably the current
agreement included a few winks and nods that meant that if Castro makes gestures
of reform, the United States will allow talks on limited aspects of the
longstanding economic embargo that Castro says is at the root of the larger
immigration problem.

If the embargo and new contacts created during resolution of this crisis can,
eventually, lead to democratic reforms, that's even more important than doing
something for the refugees. That's doing something for the people who remain in
Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              237 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 15, 1994, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS MAY JUST BE NATION'S BEST

BYLINE: RON WIGGINS

SECTION: ACCENT, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 693 words


I have to face up to a shallow-seated prejudice where immigrants are concerned.
I am fighting my prejudice as should we all when tempted to apply broad
generalizations to others. My bias is based on stereotypes, hearsay and far too
few personal observations to draw reliable conclusions. But here it is. I am a
xenophile. Not a xenophobe. A xenophile.

A xenophobe fears or hates foreigners. A xenophile admires and welcomes
foreigners. If there can be Anglophiles and Francophiles, I don't see why I
can't lay claim to be a xenophiliac.

Am I covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act?

My attitude toward foreigners (some, not all, mind you) came about when I tried
to cut cane alongside Jamaicans for a day some years back. ''These guys are hard
workers,'' I said, after crawling out of a cane field. When I heard that the
cane workers sent most of their wages to their families, my impression hardened
into a prejudice.

FIRST DAY OFF IN FOUR YEARS

Even before that I formed an attitude toward Haitians that sticks with me today,
based on one example. I know - that's not fair, but that's the way it goes with
prejudice. Ken Cruickshank, a columnist for The Post's deceased sister
newspaper, The Evening Times, stopped on a bridge to talk to a black man he saw
fishing on a Sunday afternoon.

The fisherman told Cruickshank that he was a Haitian who had been in the country
for four years and that in that time he had acquired three jobs. He lived
poorly, he said, so he could send every penny he could spare home to his wife
and kids. The columnist had caught him on the first day off he had taken since
he landed.

I decided right then that I liked Haitians. I'm sorry, but when I think of a
Haitian, I think of people with strong family loyalties who are not afraid of
hard work. Is that a fair conclusion? I know that it is not, and yet I like that
image and it would take a lot to shake it.

About a year ago, I went back to Belle Glade and tried my hand at cutting
lettuce with Mexicans and Mexican-Americans. Here, teamwork was essential.
Bingo, another prejudice. Mexicans who come to this country to work, not only
work hard and long, they work harmoniously in teams. I know that I have no right
to that opinion.

Last year my wife visited a classmate who, with her husband, owns a small
amusement park in Fort Pierce. At the time, they had just brought in used
equipment including a merry-go-round and bumper cars. Workers were cleaning and
painting the equipment while we got a guided tour.

''See those three gals cleaning the merry-go-round?'' our host asked. ''They're
Irish immigrants . . . They're the hardest working people I've ever seen. You
just tell them what to do and they go to it. They hardly even look up.''

From that, I suspect all Irish immigrants have a work ethic that won't quit.

'BEST WORKERS HE'S EVER HAD'

In North Carolina where I recently vacationed, the Mexicans were a threat to a
couple of the local laborers. My son-in-law, the landscape rock dealer, was
having trouble keeping his workers sober and on the job. ''If they don't shape
up, I'm gonna let 'em go and hire me some Mexicans. Fellow at another rock yard
said he won't hire nothing but Mexicans, says they're the best workers he's ever
had.''

Last week my mom, in Oviedo, hired some dervishes to clean her house. She said
the crew of females worked like demons and that her house has never been so
clean. ''They not only cleaned the light fixtures, they wiped down the light
bulbs.'' Did I say dervishes? I meant Jamaicans.

Then just the other day, the man who replaced our home air-conditioner hired a
young Cuban ''with misgivings'' because the fellow dressed so shabbily. Turns
out the youth was sending all but $ 50 a week of his earnings to his folks in
Cuba. The contractor said: ''If I ask my other workers to dig a trench, they
tell me they're not ditch diggers. If I ask Carlos (not his real name), he says,
'How long and how deep?' ''

As far as I'm concerned, the more work-oriented immigrants we can get into this
country, the better. I love them.

So report me to the Pro-Affirmation League.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              238 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 18, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

A FAIR POLICY, NOT 'NO REFUGEES ALLOWED'

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 156 words


Something needs to be done to curb the number of immigrants flowing to our
shores. And immigration laws should be uniform and apply fairly to everyone. But
I don't understand the remarks from people outraged that we are letting ''all of
these immigrants'' (translation: non-whites) into our country.

If I checked the backgrounds of most of those who are so against letting in the
Cubans and Haitians, I would probably discover that most of them are descended
from the great immigration influx at the turn of this century. The funny thing
is, many Americans at that time were similarly outraged that Italians, Irish,
Poles, Jews and others ''dared'' to think there was a place for them in the New
World.

Let's do everyone in this country a favor by enforcing limited but equal access.
After all, most of us wouldn't be here if the United States had at one time
adopted a ''no immigration'' policy.

K.O. Morgan

Golfview

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              239 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 21, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

TRY HIRING A U.S. CITIZEN, THEN CRITICIZE IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 278 words


I read with great interest - and with amazement at the timeliness - the column
by Ron Wiggins, ''Immigrants may just be nation's best.''

Recently, I ran a help-wanted ad for the business my husband and I own. Eight
people responded, all with experience and all U.S. citizens. Not one of these
men came to fill out an application. As one caller put it, why should he fill
out an application when he had four years of experience? Were we asking too much
for them to take the time to apply for a job in person, or was it just easier
for them to place on their unemployment records that they attempted to look for
work this week? By the way, the starting pay was way above minimum wage.

This morning, when we arrived at work, the police called to let us know our
''immigrant'' worker was hit by a car while riding his bicycle to work. He rides
a bike every day to and from work, six days a week, from Dixie Highway to U.S.
441. Even before he got the job, he rode out here four times to let us know he
was interested in the job while the Immigration and Naturalization Service
finished processing his work papers. His perseverance prevailed, and we have
been pleased with his hard work. Our experience with our American-born employees
was disastrous: machines broken, no-shows, consistent lateness, laziness, and
each one quit with no notice.

The ''immigrants'' we have working for us constantly inspire admiration. Their
diligence, loyalty and downright ''hard-work ethic'' demand our respect.
American workers beware - there is a lesson to be learned.

By the way, our injured worker will be fine. His job is waiting for him.

Kathy Fendler

Wellington

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              240 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 25, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

LETTING IN ALIEN POOR DOOMED AMERICA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 122 words


I'm convinced that between the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Immigration
and Naturalization Act, both spawned and forced upon the rest of the country by
the liberal Democrats, this country was doomed to become exactly what it has
become - a breeding ground for stupidity and Third World-ism.

The moral fiber of this nation has deteriorated so drastically over just the
past 30 years. We opened the gates of hell when we let alien poor from the Third
World swarm into this country.

Unlike our forebears from Europe who came here to assimilate, build and achieve,
this new breed of immigrants came to take, giving nothing but the worst kind of
effrontery. This is a very sad affair.

Earle Callahan

Royal Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              241 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 3, 1994, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

DOCUMENTED INCOMPETENCE: IMMIGRANT IDS EASY TO FORGE

BYLINE: ELTON GALLEGLY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 735 words


Leave it to the U.S. government to once again create a situation that leads
reasonable, rational people to scratch their heads and marvel at a level of
lunacy to which precious few can aspire.

Rightly concerned by unacceptable levels of document fraud among immigrants
working in this country, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is in the
process of summoning 1.5 million resident aliens into INS offices across the
country and charging them $ 75 each for new identification cards, commonly known
as green cards.

The desire to combat fraud is well-intended and appropriate, but there's a
catch. At a time when the ease of obtaining affordable counterfeit green cards
for as little as $ 25 has been clearly established, the INS is going through
considerable effort and imposing considerable cost to reissue virtually the same
flawed document. Through this process, the INS hopes to recall all of the
antiquated, paper green cards issued before 1977 and replace them with the
''modern'' plastic counterparts the agency has been issuing for nearly 20 years.
The plastic cards require a photo, fingerprint and signature - all of which have
yet to baffle forgers.

This is like Ford or GM deciding to recall millions of cars because of some
evident glitch in their design and then sending inconvenienced and irritated
customers home with the same faulty vehicle. Corporate executives find
themselves banished for these kind of decisions; bureaucrats build careers on
them.

What's particularly galling is that the INS is staging a massive operation to
reissue Edsels at a time when there is a growing chorus of voices crying out for
Lincolns and offering the blueprints that could build them. Over the past few
sessions of Congress, I have repeatedly introduced bills to replace the current
INS cards with a counterfeit-resistant version.

But whenever anyone tries to voice the obvious need to protect the integrity of
a document now easily forged all over Los Angeles, the sincerity of that concern
is undermined by the creepy notion of a ''national ID card'' and unsettling
references to Nazi Germany, ''thought police'' and storm troopers rousing
law-abiding citizens out of bed and demanding to see their papers. These images
can and should be terrifying.

But these images also have nothing whatever to do with improving the quality of
documents issued to immigrants who want to live and work in this country.

I have never supported the creation of a new, national identification card for
issuance to American citizens. The truth is we already have national ID cards -
they are our Social Security cards and they function more than adequately. What
I have proposed is simply improving the integrity of a document we currently
issue in one specific situation.

It is no coincidence that the landmark immigration legislation of modern times,
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, has failed largely because we
have not given American employers the means to determine with any degree of
certainty whether the immigrant workers they hire have any legal right to be
here.

How can we tell employers it is OK to hire one group of people, illegal to hire
another and then balk at giving them the tools necessary to know the difference?

As the flood of illegal immigration becomes of increasing concern to both
Democrats and Republicans, it would seem that we could take one positive and
relatively simple step to ensure that when employers hire immigrant workers,
they are able to know precisely with whom they are dealing.

Ironically, at a time when the American government is unable to decide whether a
better form of immigrant identification is possible, the nation that provides a
good deal of our immigrant population has already used the technology we
continue to ponder.

Concerned about possible voter fraud in its recent elections, the Mexican
government issued all citizens a voting card that employs several
tamper-resistant features, including a photo, a hologram, an invisible bar code
and a fingerprint.

As someone who has obtained a counterfeit green card - the same kind available
on street corners in Los Angeles and across America - I anxiously await the day
when the INS will see the wisdom in rendering that document obsolete by issuing
a replacement not so easily obtainable.

U.S. Rep. Elton Gallegly, a Republican, represents Ventura County, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              242 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     October 9, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

INS SHOWS NO CONCERN FOR THE INFIRM

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 126 words


I'm writing in protest of this new Immigration and Naturalization Service demand
that visas issued before 1979 be renewed.

On arrival at the local INS office about 10 a.m. one day recently, the guard at
the door told me the office was closed for the day, as there were lines a block
long waiting to get in. The office processes only 200 per day, after starting at
6 a.m.

My wife is just getting over a stroke, and I have back trouble and arthritis,
and we can't possibly get up about 4 a.m., wait in line for hours and perhaps be
too late to be accepted. We are both in our middle 80s. We are not a burden
financially or otherwise to the community and can't see why more immigration
stations aren't available.

William Stechyshyn

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              243 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    October 25, 1994, TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

OPEN TALKS WITH CUBA, NOT AMERICA'S BORDERS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 413 words


The Clinton administration finally has a good policy toward Cuban immigration.
The only things likely to keep it from working are Fidel Castro's malevolence
and the United States' misplaced generosity.

In September, the U.S. agreed to accept 20,000 Cubans a year. Most would be
relatives of Cubans already living in America. Some without U.S. connections
would get in via a lottery. All would complete proper applications.

That rational system, which increased the number of legal visas tenfold,
replaces a haphazard and dangerous system that too often forced Cubans to risk
their lives to come to America. It was designed to stop a mass exodus that began
in August and ended only after President Clinton finally listened to Gov. Chiles
and stopped guaranteeing that every Cuban on a raft could come to South Florida.

Castro sees the agreement as a wedge to force America to talk about relaxing a
three-decade-old trade embargo. The issue should come up this week, as U.S. and
Cuban officials meet in Havana to discuss how the new agreement will work. If
America isn't willing to negotiate on the embargo, Castro may release more
Cubans into the Florida Straits. But the U.S. has always insisted that the
embargo isn't open to discussion until Castro begins democratic reforms. That
position shouldn't change.

Fortunately, there are other items that can be negotiated. Specifically, lifting
added economic restrictions President Clinton imposed in August. To deprive Cuba
of hard currency, Cubans in America have been prevented from sending money to
relatives in Cuba, and the number of commercial flights has been cut. Once
Castro shows he's willing to let the new system work, those restrictions should
be lifted.

A harder problem is what happens to the 31,000 Cubans picked up during Mariel II
and detained at Guantanamo Naval Base. They are the losers in an agreement that
forbids them to come to America unless they leave the camps and apply under the
new visa program. The administration recently agreed to let several hundred
unaccompanied children and some of the sick come to America. Some Cuban-American
and humanitarian groups are pressing for more exceptions.

The impulse to get people out of Guantanamo before it explodes in frustration is
generous, understandable and wrong. Future rafters won't be deterred if we teach
them that America eventually will cave in. The new system is better for America
and more humane for Cubans. Stick with it.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              244 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 4, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'USEFUL' PHRASES FOR SCHOOL WORKERS TO AID IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: FRANK CERABINO

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 717 words


Don't let anybody tell you that nothing useful ever comes out of the Palm Beach
County School District administration building.

I know, because I just got something useful from the Taj. It's sitting right
here on my desk.

This may come as a shock to some of you who doubt that anything useful can come
from the paperwork hub of the county's school system.

But I know this two-page missive is useful.

It says so right on the top, in bold-faced dark letters.

Useful.

This, undoubtedly, is important to note when distributing information from the
Taj. It probably prevents school secretaries around the district from throwing
away the latest dispatch on arrival, or at best, filing it in a binder where it
will remain unread for years.

The document I'm mentioning is from an office within the Taj known as The
International Student Support/Multicultural Awareness Department.

And it's called: Useful Front Desk Expressions in Creole and Spanish.

''There were requests that we provide our people with something to help them
communicate a little better,'' said Anna Meehan, department coordinator.

''Any attempts we make to speak with families in their own language creates a
connection,'' she said. ''And many times, the first people these families meet
in school don't speak other languages. So this will be a connection piece for
them.''

The population of students who come from families who speak languages other than
English has been growing at a faster rate than the general population of
English-only students, Meehan said.

''The language enriched students have grown by about 12 percent a year, as
opposed to 5 or 6 percent for the general population,'' she said.

(''Language enriched students'' is Taj talk for kids who don't speak much

English.) And so it has come time for school secretaries to say, ''Nou byen
kontan ou vini isit la.''

Which is Creole for ''We are glad you are here,'' - expression No. 66 in your
handy guide.

'PLEASE TAKE A NUMBER' A KEY PHRASE

The guide includes 69 things you can say in Creole and Spanish to the students
and their families. It begins with ''hello'' and ends with ''bye,'' and in
between are a lot of useful things to say during the enrollment

process.  Things like:

''Do you have your physical?''

''What is your phone number?''

And my personal favorite, ''Please take a number.''

Each expression is followed by its Spanish and Creole translations, which also
are spelled out phonetically for made-easy pronunciation.

Like: Por fa-VOR PON-ga-say en FEE-la.

Which is sound-it-out Spanish for expression No. 54 - Please get in line.

''It was not intended to be a language course,'' Meehan said.

Just something . . . useful.

It's a great idea.

But there's still room for improvement. It's useful, all right, but it may not
be useful enough.

Sure, those 69 expressions might help get these bewildered immigrants past the
registration process a little easier. But it does nothing to answer the thoughts
that must be running through their heads as they get their first glimpse at our
public schools.

So, in my continuing effort to make this a better place to live, I offer my own:
Really Useful Front Desk Expressions in Creole and Spanish. (I'll leave it up to
the folks at the Taj to work up the translations.)

UNOFFICIAL LIST OF EXPRESSIONS OFFERED

No. 70: Don't be afraid, it's only a metal detector.

No. 71: We call them ''portables.''

No. 72: Can you donate some money for school supplies?

No. 73: Relax, we have plenty of teachers here who also don't know much

English.  No. 74: They're not being arrested. It's just school picture day.

No. 75: Not green card. Report card.

No. 76: They don't bite, they're just sniffing for something.

No. 77: Don't mind the crazy person, he/she is just running for school

board.  No. 78: Our dictator is named Monica.

No. 79: Your child will get used to eating lunch at 10:30 in the morning.

No. 80: You have secret police in your old country, we have surveillance cameras
on our buses.

No. 81: After all the distance you traveled, I don't think being bused an extra
15 miles every day will be so traumatic.

No. 82: If you think you were overcrowded in that raft, wait until you see your
child's classroom.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              245 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 18, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CLINTON'S REFUGEE PLAN WOULD BRING MARIEL III

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 588 words


 Let's see. President Clinton doesn't want to put up with protests from
Cuban-American groups when he's in Miami next month. So instead, Florida will
have to put up with a federal immigration ''policy'' that overloads the state
with refugees.
   President Clinton helped stop a Cuban exodus in August when he ordered
rafters picked up at sea to be detained at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo. He
said then that people at the camps would not be permitted to come directly to
America, and it was only after it became clear he meant it that the rafters stop
coming. The U.S. and Cuba then signed an agreement to curtail the haphazard and
dangerous raft crossings by increasing to more than 20,000 the number of legal
visas that would be issued annually to Cubans.
 But now President Clinton is worried that protests over the Guantanamo
detention will mar the Summit of the Americas, scheduled for Dec. 9-11. So the
administration has suggested that the roughly 3,000 children among the 23,000
detainees at Guantanamo be admitted to the United States. Along with their
families, that would amount to 6,000 to 8,000 people.
   Gov. Chiles has not forcefully objected, sticking to his usual line that
immigration is OK if the feds pay for it. Sen. Bob Graham isn't commenting until
he knows for sure that the proposal is serious. But Florida's two most prominent
Democrats should be telling their Democratic president that he's making a huge
mistake. The federal government has never paid states fully for the costs of
immigration. Proposed Republican budget cuts won't change that. Florida can try
to get extra money and try to get the government to give incentives for Cuban
refugees to settle outside Florida. But those measures will work only if the
administration has a rational immigration policy.
   Most important, caving in on Cuban immigration now means there will be
another chaotic exodus later. When it comes, nobody will believe that the U.S.
is serious about stopping it. Worse, potential rafters will know that they
enhance their likelihood of being admitted if they bring children with them on
the dangerous trip.
   The administration's proposed policy also continues a shameful double
standard. Haitian children were (some still are) detained at Guantanamo with no
hope of coming to America. Because Haitian refugees had nothing like the
political power of Cuban-American groups, most Haitian children and their
families were simply returned directly to Haiti, even when the former military
government was in charge. It is worth noting, however, that one reason President
Clinton invaded Haiti was to avoid embarrassment at the summit.
   If the Clinton policy is too generous, the policies of another group - the
Federation for American Immigration Reform - are too strict. That group has sued
to overturn the more rational policy that allows Cubans to be screened for
orderly and safe immigration to America.
   People at Guantanamo who want to come to America should return to Cuba and
apply for visas. That was the deal. It's rational and humane. The president has
said he's concerned that conditions at Guantanamo are too difficult for
children. That compassion is commendable, but bringing those children to Florida
is not the only choice. President Clinton should use the Summit of the Americas
to lobby some of the Latin American leaders there to provide more comfortable
accommodations for Cuban children and their families. There is nothing
embarrassing about that.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              246 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    November 27, 1994, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

OPPOSITION TO PROP 187 HAS RACIST ORIGINS

BYLINE: RICHARD D. LAMM and ROBERT HARDAWAY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 637 words


Since the passage by an overwhelming margin of Proposition 187 in California, a
number of groups have acted to protest and mobilize opposition to that and
similar propositions proposed in other states. Opponents have attempted to
interject racism as a motivation for the passage of Proposition 187.

These groups are correct that racism plays an important role in immigration
policy, although in a way entirely opposite to that which they now claim. After
the emancipation of the slaves after the Civil War, industrialists sought a new
source of labor to man factories in order to avoid a labor shortage that would
have resulted in higher wages. Many powerful employers also wanted to avoid
having to hire African-Americans. The solution was to import starving white
workers from overpopulated Europe.

Not all oppressed people in the United States were fooled by this policy. Booker
T. Washington, the famous African-American leader, was invited to speak at the
Atlanta Exposition of 1895 to business and political leaders, including the
president of the United States, Grover Cleveland. Washington urged the employers
to hire America's minorities: ''To those of you who look to the incoming of
foreign birth,'' he pleaded, ''cast down your bucket where you are.''

The policies Washington protested persist today. In 1987, at a time when teenage
unemployment among African-Americans approached 80 percent, garment-maker
employers petitioned the Immigration and Naturalization Service to import white
foreign workers on grounds that there was an ''unskilled labor shortage.''
Ironically, it is the aliens who suffer most from such cruel policies. Four
years ago, when owners of fancy restaurants in New York City sought ways to
reduce costs by reducing the wages of their Chinese workers, they lobbied to
import additional Chinese aliens, with the result that wages paid dropped by 50
percent.

As the Institute for Immigration Studies recently observed, present immigration
policies ''provide an alternative source of labor so that urban employers have
not had to hire available black jobseekers . . . Whether intended or not, the
present immigration policy is a revived instrument of institutional racism.'' A
former state governor recently observed that ''immigration policy . . . keeps
down the price of hiring a maid or gardener for the rich, while it makes things
worse for the poor.''

Alarmed by the prospect that the pool of exploitable labor might dry up, the
powerful wish to continue the cruel policy of luring illegals by promises of
free education and benefits at taxpayer expense. Fortunately, however, most
minority group members have refused to be duped by the rich and powerful into
opposing immigration reform such as Proposition 187. A 1992 Roper poll revealed
that a majority of African-Americans believe immigration is bad for the country,
and a poll by Hispanic Opinion and Research has revealed that ''70 percent of
Hispanics do not want Latin Americans to be given preferential treatment in
immigration.'' Also, not surprisingly, 57 percent of African-Americans and 61
percent of Asians voted in favor of Proposition 187.

The passage of 187 means that no longer can the pleas of those who, like Booker
T. Washington, seek simple economic and social justice, be ignored by the rich
and powerful. A tight labor market is a friend of the poor. It increases wages
and forces employers to train our own poor. Public policy should try to stop
illegal immigration - not encourage it.

Richard D. Lamm, governor of Colorado from 1975 to 1987, is director of the
Center for Public Policy and Contemporary Issues. Robert Hardaway is professor
of law at the University of Denver College of Law, where he teaches
constitutional law. They wrote this article for the Los Angeles Daily News.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Booker T. Washington (mug)

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              247 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 6, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

GUANTANAMO EXPRESS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 448 words


When he learned President Clinton was making it easier for Cuban children and
their families to leave detention at Guantanamo Naval Base and come to South
Florida, Miami City Manager Cesar Odio said happily, 'This government has always
shown it has a big heart.''

Too bad that on immigration matters this country has not always shown that it
has a functioning brain.

Mr. Odio speaks for a coalition of Cuban-American groups that has pressured the
Clinton administration to release 23,000 Cubans held at Guantanamo and 9,000
held in Panama. Those groups promised to pay resettlement costs, and their
motives are humanitarian. But they are wrong to press for entry for those
refugees, and the Clinton administration is wrong to give in.

The Cubans at Guantanamo and in Panama are there as part of an agreement reached
in August to stop yet another chaotic exodus from Cuba. To protect U.S. borders
and to stop people from attempting the dangerous trip across the Florida
Straits, U.S. officials vowed that the rafters would not be allowed to come
directly to America. Instead, the number of visas for Cubans would be greatly
expanded. That orderly system makes sense. The new policy, announced Friday,
sabotages it.

Children found to be suffering ''extraordinary hardship'' at the camps can come
here, along with their immediate families. The definition of ''extraordinary
hardship'' was left vague. The administration claims to have no idea how many
people will be admitted, though most guesses are about 10,000.

The announcement was designed to blunt planned protests at the Summit of the
Americas, which will be Friday through Sunday in Miami. It is a sign of
Cuban-American political clout and the lack of Clinton-administration backbone.
Does anyone now doubt that, eventually, the remaining Cubans will be allowed to
come to America?

Fidel Castro may now retaliate for the breached agreement by again letting
Cubans pour toward Florida. If that happens, there will be nothing the Clinton
administration can say that will deter them. A trip to Guantanamo will be seen
as a minor delay. Those who want to expedite their processing will be sure to
load as many small children as possible onto their rickety rafts.

Those who claim the detention policy ''rewarded'' Castro are missing a larger
point. By again giving Castro the ability to use emigration as a weapon, the
Cuban president has been enormously rewarded. And if the orderly system of
emigration breaks down, thousands of Cubans who want to leave that country
without risking their lives at sea have been punished.

We are lucky that America has a soft heart. But the condition is spreading to
the head.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              248 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 8, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 315 words


PALM BEACH

Fourteen Haitians came ashore early Wednesday at the Palm Beach Country Club on
North Ocean Boulevard, police said. U.S. Border Patrol agents, who said the
group arrived in Florida via the Bahamas, took four of the illegal immigrants,
including a suspected smuggler, to the Krome Detention Center in Miami. The
other 10 included some children who were to be collected by charity workers from
Church World Services in Miami Wednesday afternoon.

DELRAY BEACH

The city will host an auction beginning at 9 a.m. Saturday at 1700 Lake Ida
Road. Auction items include cars, bicycles, computers, office furniture,
jewelry, kitchen appliances, tools, stereos, televisions and sporting goods.
Call 622-0017 for more information.

STUART

The Florida Arts, Dance and Fitness Co. of Palm City will present The Nutcracker
at the Lyric Theatre at 8 p.m. Dec. 17 and at 3 p.m. Dec. 18. More than 60
Martin County residents will perform, including Russian actor Sergei Chvedkov.
Tickets are $ 3-$ 10. For information, call 288-4150.

STUART

Martin County's two incumbent county court judges spent about half as much money
as their unsuccessful opponents, according to final campaign treasurer's reports
filed Wednesday. Judge Stewart Hershey spent $ 26,912 in his campaign while his
challenger, Stuart attorney Ron Smith, spent $ 53,238. Judge David Harper spent
$ 16,709 to defeat his opponent, Stuart attorney Doris Raskin, who spent $
31,083, the reports show.

FORT PIERCE

The St. Lucie County Department of Leisure Services will sponsor the Inner City
Christmas Classic Basketball Tournament at 9 a.m. Dec. 18 at the Lincoln Park
Academy gymnasium. The tournament is a single elimination with a guarantee of
two games. The $ 100 fee is payable to the St. Lucie County Department of
Leisure Services. Entry deadline is 5 p.m. Wednesday. For information, call
462-1788.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              249 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 9, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CLINTON SEEKS FRUITS OF COMMON MARKET

BYLINE: ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1198 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


President Clinton, trying to build on his free-trade momentum, expects 34
hemispheric presidents to emerge from the Summit of the Americas Sunday with a
shared goal: the creation of a vast common market from the Yukon to Tierra del
Fuego.

When the unprecedented meeting opens today with Clinton's address, Latin
American and Caribbean presidents will bring many pressing issues to the table,
from human rights and democratization to drug-money laundering and corruption to
the environment.

Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro, one of two women leaders in the
hemisphere, wants to ensure that democracy and broader trade opportunities
include women, who lag far behind men in education and prosperity in most Latin
countries.

And immigration, bolstered by Mexico's new president Ernesto Zedillo, has
emerged as a last-minute issue in the wake of passage of a California measure to
ban undocumented immigrants' access to education and social services.

But for the Clinton administration and many Latin countries, a consensus on free
trade is the paramount prize they hope to bring away.

''You're going to have numerous heads of state committing themselves to a goal
which is not only important to the individual countries, but for free trade in
the entire hemisphere,'' said Florida Sen. Bob Graham, co-chairman of the
congressional delegation to the summit. ''It's been a long time coming.''

A tentative plan of action drawn up by summit leaders late last month calls for
concluding the negotiations for a so-called Free Trade Area of the Americas by
2005.

The proposal is likely to receive a warm reception from many Latin American and
Caribbean nations eager to share the competitive access to U.S. markets or
investment enjoyed by Mexico and Canada under the North American Free Trade
Agreement shepherded through Congress by Clinton a year ago, Graham said.

''You will have a tremendous political will, from Buenos Aires to Washington, to
see that those commitments are carried out,'' said Graham, a Democrat. ''Now we
are all recognizing that our economic destinies, North and South, are very much
integrated.''

Clinton, who arrived in Miami late Thursday, also may declare the beginning of
negotiations with Chile for its inclusion in NAFTA, something diplomats
characterize as a largely symbolic announcement, since the South American nation
always has been considered the favorite next candidate, Graham said.

For U.S. producers, free trade means opening the doors to a lucrative growing
market of hundreds of millions of people. To Latins, it also means U.S.
investment capital to finance growth.

U.S. LABOR FEARS PROBLEMS

Labor advocates fear free trade will mean an exodus of American factories to
Third World countries where wages are low, exacerbating U.S. unemployment and
perpetuating dismal living standards in Latin America, where the 80 million
desperately poor are left with a paltry 2 percent share of the wealth.

Some fear agricultural produce from Latin America could enjoy a competitive edge
in the U.S. marketplace, since it would be bound by none of the restrictions on
dangerous pesticides yet be able to compete on par in the U.S. marketplace.

Clinton said Thursday that steps to create a global marketplace will give a
vital boost to the American economy and help reverse low growth, high
unemployment and declining living standards.

''The greatest, largest, most powerful country in the world cannot escape the
global economy,'' Clinton said at Thursday's signing for another global
free-trade accord passed by Congress, the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade. ''We must go into the 21st century convinced that the only way to
preserve the American dream is to be involved with the rest of the world, to be
willing to compete, to be determined to win.''

The summit will be the first such meeting between hemispheric democratic
presidents.

The last hemispheric meeting, held in 1967 in Punta del Este, Uruguay, during
the administration of Lyndon Johnson, ignored Caribbean statesmen and included
10 Latin leaders not voted into office.

Cuban leader Fidel Castro is the only non-elected leader in the hemisphere
today, and he was not invited. Castro said he was proud to be excluded from a
gathering of leaders who had bowed and scraped to the United States.

''We are rebels,'' Castro said Tuesday in Havana. ''And this is not a meeting
for rebels.''

No concrete, binding trade accords are expected. The U.S. Congress adjourned
without giving Clinton the authority to negotiate specific issues, such as the
reduction of duties on South American exports.

Graham said Congress stalled a Clinton effort to grant tariff reductions on
Caribbean Basin textiles before the conference, disappointing Central America,
Jamaica and the Dominican Republic, which have been at a competitive
disadvantage since Mexico got under the NAFTA umbrella.

''We don't want to be left in the cold by the privileges Mexico is enjoying
under NAFTA,'' said Salvadoran president Armando Calderon Sol. ''We are now at a
disadvantage with the U.S. market. We don't need gifts. We need commercial
exchange.''

Calderon Sol said Caribbean Basin countries would seek tariff reductions that
would put their export to the United States on par with those of Mexico.

Other participants are simply dubious that the conference will generate anything
other than a round of backslapping, noncommittal pledges of support and
goodwill.

''Regarding the summit in Miami, I think high and false expectations are being
created,'' said Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori, at a business executives
conference in Peru last week. ''I don't think we are going to come out of the
meeting with a stronger America.''

'THEME IS SKEPTICISM'

How countries are to jump on the free trade bandwagon is one thing not likely to
be clarified at the summit.

Graham said Clinton trade architects envision some countries winning U.S. free
trade privileges through NAFTA. Central America might negotiate free trade as a
block, while other countries could adhere through the growing Latin regional
trade organizations, like Mercosur.

''One or a series of arrangements would be agreed on that in their totality
would comprise a Western free trade zone,'' Graham said. ''The important thing
is to set a date and a goal for its accomplishment.''

Analysts in Miami lamented that most delegates to the conference seemed
interested in trade issues alone and unlikely to seriously address other
pressing issues, such as birth control, money laundering, human rights or the
environment.

They also were pessimistic that delegates would spend much time on the Pandora's
box of labor and environmental issues related to free trade.

''The theme is skepticism,'' said Steve Stein, senior research associate at the
University of Miami North-South Center.

ELUSIVE FREE TRADE

FREE TRADE is a catchall term for measures that open access to markets around
the globe by striking down charges usually levied on goods from other countries
and eliminating import quotas and other barriers designed to protect domestic
markets from foreign competition.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              250 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 11, 1994, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

PROTESTERS TORCH MEXICAN FLAG NEAR SUMMIT

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Anti-immigration protesters put some distance between themselves Saturday as one
faction staged the burning of a Mexican flag.

''We are giving them some of their own medicine,'' said Tony Ostrowski, who set
fire to the flag drenched in lighter fluid.

Ostrowski of Pompano Beach and William Lipton of Boca Raton were ordered to move
away from other anti-immigration demonstrators who said flag-burning was
improper.

''They are not associated with us and we don't condone flag burning,'' said
Richard Long of Coral Springs. ''We want to show people that we are
mainstream.''

Ostrowski said he's angry because Mexicans ransacked a McDonald's restaurant in
Tijuana, Mexico, after Californians passed Proposition 187 in November, denying
social services to undocumented immigrants.

Ostrowski scoffed at Long's concern with image.

''That's why the country is going down the drain,'' he said. ''No guts.''

The small flag was a big problem. Lipton and Ostrowski lit the flag three times
and used a quart of fluid.

About 70 people - many from Palm Beach County - representing several
organizations stood outside the Hyatt Regency hotel in downtown Miami to send a
message to the 34 leaders attending the Summit of the Americas. The summit
session was 2 miles away, but that didn't bother most.

Nancy Jacobs of Boca Raton said her concern is directed at President Clinton for
allowing Cuban refugees to enter without visas.

One sign said ''Pete Wilson for Prez.'' Wilson is the California governor who
supported Proposition 187.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), SCOTT WISEMAN/Staff Photographer, Anti-immigration
demonstrators stand outside the James L. Knight Center during Saturday morning
session of the Summit of the Americas.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              251 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 17, 1994, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

GUANTANAMO A 'HALL OF SHAME' EXHIBIT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 124 words


Your editorial line continues to focus on the Guantanamo ''detainees'' situation
as an immigration issue rather than a foreign-policy matter (''Guantanamo
Express''). If you are correct, why not treat these Cuban refugees as we do all
the other immigrants and grant them individual hearings?

You perceive the rafters as ''a threat to the U.S. in general and to Florida in
particular.'' You are right. History will place Guantanamo in the same
''American Hall of Shame'' as our internment of Japanese in World War II, the
rejection of the ship Hamburg and the Jim Crow laws. Our own liberty is
threatened when the people allow our government to take freedom away from any
group for political reasons.

Jose R. Uzal

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              252 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 19, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION NOT WHAT'S BUGGING US

BYLINE: TOM BLACKBURN

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 628 words


Three of every four Americans want fewer immigrants admitted ''until the economy
improves.'' Mortimer Zuck-er-man, editor in chief of U.S. News & World Report,
which took the poll in question, calls that figure ''stunning.'' I'd call it
something else.

Like a bunch of guys, a campfire in the woods and Old Milwaukee beer, the
economy doesn't get any better than this. You've got 4 percent annual growth
with inflation so small only the Federal Reserve Board can see it. You've got
5.6 percent unemployment with no pressure to raise wages.

''This economic cycle is different from previous ones,'' enthuses a Business
Week editorial. ''Big gains in productivity, a monetary policy acting ahead of
inflation, and a sharp reduction in the federal budget deficit are creating a
new paradigm for the U.S.''

On the whole, you have ''the virtuous cycle that was behind Germany's and
Japan's successes of the 1980s.'' One by one, you've got a three-fourths of the
people saying: ''Paradigm? Brother, can you spare a dime?''

Does this make sense? As a matter of fact, yes.

Baby boomers started their checking accounts in the inflationary 1970s, and they
expect inflation the way their parents prepared for the next depression.

Real wages, adjusted for inflation, have sat still since 1978. In 1980, even
with some college education, a worker had a 39 percent chance of taking home
less pay by 1989. Factory wages fell by about $ 1.20 an hour (in 1992 dollars)
between 1979 and 1989.

If pay did hold up, fringe benefits such as insurance and pensions were reduced
or lost.

Big, solid companies are not as big as they used to be - and still announce
layoffs - and not as solid. Who can tell if any company that's hiring today will
thrive as long as People Express, much less IBM?

You know the global market of NAFTA and GATT that's going to make the United
States richer on the whole? It will move jobs overseas. Yours or mine?

As parents age, they may need help. Children cost more as they grow. Health care
and college tuition are increasing faster than the gross domestic product and,
therefore, faster than real wages.

Over everything else hangs the national debt of $ 4.8 trillion, which could
start an avalanche that sweeps away savings, social insurance and investments.

That's a mix of real losses and bullets that may be dodged. Add to it the noise
of windbags, demagogues, losers, baseball owners and official spokesmen who make
a living out of being outraged. It has become impolite, and maybe impolitic, to
admit it if you're moderately prosperous and not particularly angry.

Their present may be swell, but even big winners fear the future. Business Week
felt a need to end its upbeat editorial fretting that the new Congress may
abandon budget discipline. ''Let's hope Washington doesn't screw it up,'' the
editorial concludes.

Ordinary people worry about Washington, too. But whatever else happens, good
blue-collar jobs won't return. Companies won't dish out higher pay because they
don't have to. Medical costs will increase because we have the best health-care
system in the world. College costs will rise because faculties can claim the
credentials they hand out are all that stands between students and grinding,
abject poverty.

Those trends describe an economy that can get a lot worse for many folks. The
rising tide measured by macro-economics is simply not lifting all boats.

''Until the economy improves'' was a pollster's term, but it could mean ''in
your lifetime.'' May I suggest that popular distractions such as stopping
immigration (assuming we'd ever pay what that would cost) would have little to
no effect on what's really bugging people?

Tom Blackburn is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              253 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  December 21, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SUIT ON IMMIGRANT COSTS IS DISMISSED

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 963 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Although finding Florida in ''desperate need of relief,'' a federal judge
Tuesday dismissed a lawsuit brought by Gov. Lawton Chiles seeking reimbursement
for the costs of immigration.

U.S. District Court Judge Edward B. Davis said the economic burden of immigrants
is a political rather than legal question. Davis acknowledged that the state had
sought relief through the political process without success.

''But recognizing these facts does not create a legal theory under which this
court may grant relief,'' Davis wrote. ''Without such a legal theory, this court
must dismiss this action.''

In the first in a series of lawsuits various states brought against the federal
government, Florida sued in April to recover $ 1.5 billion spent on education,
health care, prison beds and other services used by thousands of immigrants,
particularly undocumented ones.

Tom Herndon, Chiles' chief of staff, said he was ''almost certain'' the state
would appeal the decision to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta.
Meanwhile, he said Chiles will continue trying to get aid from the federal
government.

''I am committed to making sure that Floridians will not pay for the federal
government's failure to enforce its own immigration laws,'' Chiles said in a
statement Tuesday.

The failure of the lawsuit is expected to unleash a wide range of political
initiatives at the federal, state and local levels to address the immigration
burden.

Unless the government moves to curb immigration, a Palm Beach County-based
organization plans to initiate a campaign for a statewide referendum to deny
education and most health-care services for undocumented immigrants.

''We would prefer not to go that route,'' said Nancy Jacobs of Boca Raton,
co-founder of Floridians for Immigration Control. ''But it's apparent that the
federal government is not going to take responsibility. The state legislature is
going to blame the federal government, and nothing is going to change.''

Analysts expect immigration-related bills to be introduced in the Florida
Legislature next year. The legislature's Advisory Council on Intergovernmental
Relations already has bills prepared to track the costs of immigrants using
state services and has researched California's Proposition 187.

State Senate President Jim Scott, R-Fort Lauderdale, said he was contacting the
governors of Texas and California to coordinate an effort with the Florida
congressional delegation to get money for the states.

Arizona, California, Texas and New Jersey also are suing to recover money. At a
hearing last week in Texas, a federal judge said he's likely to dismiss the
lawsuit there.

U.S. Rep. Harry Johnston, a Democrat from West Palm Beach, said Tuesday that he
was disappointed by the judge's decision and urged the state to appeal.

''I think there should be, once and for all, a judicial opinion about the
responsibility of the federal government since they control immigration and
allow X number of people into this country, legally or illegally, and they
should absorb the financial responsibility,'' Johnston said.

Some relief could come from the Republican majority in Congress, which is
expected to move against federal programs that shift costs to states.

''One of the top three agenda items on the Republican agenda is unfunded
mandates,'' said Judy Marden, public affairs director for the American
Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington. ''They are going to be looking at
how they are reimbursing states.''

Marden and others said there was no surprise in the judge's ruling.

''The suit had no solid legal basis,'' Marden said. ''What Chiles was trying to
do is make a political statement.''

Miami immigration attorney Robert Boyer agreed that Chiles' election-year
lawsuit was a symbolic gesture.

''It made the governor look like a hero,'' Boyer said.

But Parker Thompson, the Miami attorney who represented the state in the
lawsuit, said the ruling should help the state win an appeal because the judge
left the state with no remedy.

Steve Forester, an attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, said he was
glad to see the lawsuit fail.

''The issue of immigrants has been demagogued to death,'' Forester said. ''The
vast majority of immigration to this county is legal, and the vast majority of
the problems of this country has nothing to do with immigrants.''

THE STATE'S CASE

Count I: Federal government won't release $ 20 million in immigration emergency
funds.

Court Decision: U.S. attorney general has recently developed rules for release
of the money and is expected to disburse the money soon.

Count II: Federal government has failed to enforce immigration laws.

Court Decision: U.S. attorney general must consider many factors, including
whether deportation best fits overall policies or whether the political climate
of an alien's native country makes deportation suitable.

Count III: Federal government won't reimburse Florida for welfare and Medicaid
payments to immigrants without permanent residence.

Court Decision: The state must abide by the conditions of the programs,
including a lack of money for undocumented immigrants. This issue presents a
political question and, therefore, must be dismissed.

Count IV: Federal government should pay restitution to Florida until immigration
laws are properly enforced because immigration is an invasion of the state's
sovereignty.

Court Decision: The state fails to suggest and the court is unable to identify,
a manageable standard for determining when the migration, as well as costs
associated with such migration, reaches the point at which it invades Florida's
state sovereignty.

Staff writers Larry Kaplow and John Fernandez contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  info. box at end of text

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              254 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 13, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

POSSIBLE GOP SPLIT EMERGES ON WELFARE FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 518 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On the eve of hearings to change welfare, two House chairmen appeared to
disagree Thursday with Speaker Newt Gingrich over whether to cut off benefits
for legal immigrants.

Gingrich said Monday that Republicans might ''revisit the question of
eliminating legal aliens from ever getting access to government services.'' But
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Bill Archer, R-Texas, and Human Resources
Subcommittee Chairman E. Clay Shaw Jr., R-Fla., said Thursday that their bill
would bar most legal immigrants from receiving welfare benefits.

''I'm not going to take an offhand comment at a press conference as an
instruction,'' Shaw said, referring to Gingrich's remark.

Shaw, whose subcommittee begins a two-week series of welfare reform hearings
today, said Gingrich had not instructed him to alter the GOP position banning
immigrant benefits, which is outlined in the House Republicans' ''Contract With
America.''

''It's a little uncertain precisely what he meant,'' Archer said, but ''we're
going to proceed with what we think is right.

''If you came to this country and you are able to work . . .  then you will be
expected to take care of yourself,'' Archer said.

Archer and Shaw spoke with reporters at a breakfast at the Capitol.

Shaw warned that continuing to allow legal immigrants to receive welfare
benefits would jeopardize the GOP reform plan, which envisions a $ 21 billion
savings over five years by eliminating immigrant aid.

''This provision is important because of the revenues,'' Shaw said of the ban on
immigrant benefits. ''If we start dismantling the bill, we'll have to scramble
to pay for it.''

Under the contract, disabled legal residents who had previously worked would
continue to qualify for Social Security Disability Income, and legal residents
over 75 who had been here for at least five years would continue to receive
benefits.

In a news conference Monday, Gingrich said he thought ''there is a legitimate
case (for helping) someone who has participated in American society and paid
taxes by making them eligible,'' for benefits.

But Shaw noted that even tax-paying immigrants ''don't have the right to vote or
other rights of citizens. We're simply adding to that list.''

Gingrich's spokesman, Tony Blankley, said Thursday that the speaker was giving
his personal views and had not intended his comments to direct the committee's
actions.

PROJECTED SAVINGS

Savings over 5 years if legal immigrants are denied welfare benefits:

    Food Stamps                                    $ 2.8 billion
   Aid to Families
   with Dependent
   Children                                       $ 1.0 billion
   Supplemental Security
   Income                                         $ 9.4 billion
   Medicaid                                       $ 8.1 billion
   TOTAL                                          $ 21.3 billion

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  info. box at end of text

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              255 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    January 17, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

LIMIT IMMIGRATION TO PRESERVE AMERICA

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 136 words


Many Americans are outraged by the huge number of illegal aliens flooding into
the country each year. They are incensed by the government's failure to punish
those it catches. And they are dismayed that taxpayers provide free health care
and other benefits to people who are in violation of the law.

Americans still favor legal immigration. Welcoming eager new Americans of
diverse cultural backgrounds and languages invigorates our quality of life, but
admitting more newcomers of one culture and language than the United States can
assimilate is another matter. There is common agreement that all nations have
the right to preserve their own cultural identity and traditions.

Are Americans going to be denied this fundamental right because of a misguided
immigration policy?

Harry Wolf

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              256 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

             January 18, 1995, Wednesday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

22 HAITIANS DETAINED ABOARD SHIPS IN INLET

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Crew members of the disabled ships have fraudulent documents and may be trying
to enter the country illegally, officers say.

Crew members aboard three Haitian ships towed to port after issuing distress
calls have fraudulent documents and may have been trying to enter the country
illegally, immigration officers said Tuesday.

The 22 Haitians are being detained aboard the ships in the Fort Pierce Inlet
while authorities investigate the suspicious circumstances of their voyage.

One of the vessels, the 35-foot wooden boat Madeleine, was towed to port by the
U.S. Coast Guard Friday night with seven people on board. Saturday, two other
vessels, the Nelli and Merni II, also were brought in by the Coast Guard.

Of the 22 crew members aboard the three ships, five were women.

The Haitians are being treated as crew members while the investigation is under
way, said Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for the U.S. Department of Immigration and
Naturalization in Miami.

''We found that they had fraudulent documents,'' Wooley said. ''That raises the
suspicion right there. But they are claiming to be crewmen, and we are treating
them as such.''

If the Haitians are confirmed to be legitimate crew, they'll be allowed to
remain on board the vessels until repairs are made and the vessels sail.

Wooley said he didn't know the destination of the ships or whether they carried
any cargo.

A Border Patrol official in Miami said undocumented immigrants have used
disabled ships before to gain entry into the United States.

''People want to get here, and they will try everything,'' said Mike Sheehy, a
Border Patrol supervisor.

He said crewmen with fake or altered documents sometimes enter on foreign
freighters into the Miami River, a major shipping port for small vessels.

''What we find in many of these cases is that they have too many crew for the
size vessel, and they have altered documents,'' Sheehy said. ''There is a
possibility of that in this particular case.''

The three vessels probably left Haiti for Miami but became disabled off the
coast and drifted north, he said.

The captains of the ships are allowed to come ashore to buy food and supplies,
but crew members must remain aboard. However, if they're able to leave the ship
and reach U.S. soil, the crew members would be eligible to apply for political
asylum, he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              257 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 21, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SHAW HAS ALIEN NOTION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 431 words


Here is a $ 21 billion problem:

Foreigners come to America legally. They have jobs and/or sponsors who promise
to take care of them for five years. But something happens. Jobs fall through.
Sponsors renege. The legal immigrants fall back on the same welfare system used
by U.S. citizens. Over five years, says U.S. Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale,
the cost to taxpayers is more than $ 21 billion. His $ 21 billion solution? Stop
letting legal immigrants get welfare.

In an interview with National Public Radio, Rep. Shaw said legal immigrants
''haven't pledged allegiance to the United States, they have no obligation to
the people of the United States, or to the Constitution, and we, therefore, feel
that we, as most other countries, do not have to care for them because they're
not our own citizens.''

Rep. Shaw has been a leading - and often thoughtful - advocate of welfare
reform. And what he thinks counts for much more, now that he chairs an important
welfare subcommittee. But his cut-them-off solution is simplistic. Even House
Speaker Newt Gingrich has backed off the proposal. ''I am very pro-legal
immigration,'' Rep. Gingrich said. ''I think legal immigration has given America
many of its most dynamic and creative citizens, and I think that we would be a
very, very self-destructive country if we sent negative signals on legal
immigration.''

Among the programs Rep. Shaw would end for legal immigrants are free childhood
immunizations, Medicaid and subsidized school lunches. As was pointed out (and
ignored) when California voters passed a measure designed to cut all services
for illegal aliens, an end to assistance can actually increase costs, for
example when sick children who failed to get immunizations end up in emergency
rooms.

There also is a philosophical problem with Rep. Shaw's plan. Many legal
immigrants pay taxes. And many of them are working toward citizenship. How does
it help to deny immunization to children who will become citizens?

Rep. Shaw's proposal is not as draconian as it sounds. He would allow some
benefits to older immigrants and would allow states to make a certain number of
exceptions in other cases. Still, Rep. Gingrich's plan might be better. He would
try to tighten requirements for sponsors. And he'd give states more authority to
find savings. That approach is untried and needs a lot more detail - more,
probably, than can be offered in the 100-day legislative stampede on which the
GOP is embarked. But Rep. Gingrich's goal of preserving assistance for legal
aliens who deserve it is the right one.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              258 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

UNCLE SAM CAN'T TURN BACK ON LEGAL U.S. IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 132 words


It appears that legal immigrants, under the new Republican leadership, could
become an endangered species. I am an American citizen and years ago was a legal
immigrant, first in England and then in Canada. As such, I was eligible for all
the social and health benefits that citizens of those countries enjoy. And why
not? When a person lives and works in a foreign country, that person should
receive the same benefits as citizens.

Taking away benefits that legal immigrants have earned amounts to a Contract on
America and must not be allowed. If this country doesn't want to extend benefits
to legal immigrants in the future, applicants should be so informed, and
Americans should expect the same treatment when they go to live in foreign
countries.

Arthur Piergrossi

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              259 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 11, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FOLEY'S FIRST HOUSE BILL SAILS THROUGH

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


For his first legislative attempt before the House of Representatives, Rep. Mark
Foley had his staff work two days preparing statistics and arguments to support
his amendment.

But when he took the floor Friday, Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., handling the
Democratic side, said none of his members would object if Foley, a West Palm
Beach Republican, agreed to speak for only 30 seconds.

Seconds later, Foley's amendment to allow governors and state attorneys general
to ask the Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport illegal immigrants
convicted of a non-violent crime was unanimously approved.

''All I know is from now on, whenever I'm offering an amendment it's going to be
on a Friday at 3 p.m.,'' an exhuberant Foley said after the vote.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Mark Foley (mug)

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              260 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   February 11, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

TRIO CHARGED WITH KIDNAPPING CHILEAN WOMAN

BYLINE: ELIOT KLEINBERG

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


 A Boca Raton woman and a Miami woman and teen have been charged with posing as
immigration officers to kidnap a Boca Raton woman, police said Friday.
   Maria Angelica Mena, 44, of Northwest 13th Street told police Dayanara
Castillo, 20, of Miami and a teenager identified as Castillo's brother came to
her home the evening of Jan. 30, flashed badges, said they were with U.S.
Immigration and told her to come with them.
 Mena told police she is experiencing immigration problems, so she went with
them, even though she said her attorney is resolving her immigration problems.
   Mena said she and the other two got into the back of a car driven by Rocio
San Juan, 42, of Boca Raton, the sister of Mena's boyfriend. While they drove
around Palm Beach and Broward counties for several hours, the three threatened
Mena with deportation, Mena told police. Mena said she was also briefly
handcuffed.
   The group drove to a West Palm Beach motel and tried to check in, but no one
had enough money. The car then headed toward Miami International Airport, and
San Juan told Mena she was going to put her on a plane back to Chile, police
said.
   About halfway to the airport, they turned around. They then offered to
overlook Mena's immigration problems for $ 1,000. They gave Mena a telephone
number to call when she could obtain money, then dropped her off at home.
   The next day, Mena called the number from Boca Raton police headquarters;
Castillo then called back twice to Mena's number, which was at Boca Raton
police, and made arrangements for Mena to deliver the money in the parking lot
of a SunBank on West Palmetto Park Road near Interstate 95. Police said they
secretly watched as Mena gave $ 500 to the 17-year-old, then arrested him and
Castillo.
   Castillo and the 17-year-old, who police did not name, were charged with
extortion, false imprisonment, battery and unlawful use of a police badge,
police said. Castillo confessed to the crimes, police reports say.
   San Juan surrendered to police Wednesday and was charged with extortion,
false imprisonment and battery.
   All were being held Friday at the Palm Beach County Jail.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              261 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  February 15, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

PANEL SLASHES WELFARE

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With only minor opposition from Democrats, members of a House panel agreed
Tuesday to eliminate most welfare benefits for immigrants who are not U.S.
citizens.

Action came in the House Ways and Means subcommittee on human resources, which
is rewriting most of the nation's welfare laws. The panel's work could be
completed today, setting the stage for action before the full committee in about
two weeks.

The Republican-sponsored bill would prohibit states from providing 35 federally
financed benefits such as Medicaid, rental or public housing, food assistance
and Aid to Families with Dependent Children to most noncitizens. States would be
allowed to use their own money for such benefits.

Noncitizens still would be allowed to receive 15 types of federal benefits,
including emergency medical services, immunizations, various educational loans
and grants and the earned income tax credit.

Refugees - including Cubans admitted under the Cuban Adjustment Act - would be
allowed to receive benefits for five years and noncitizens over 75 who had lived
in the United States at least five years would be eligible indefinitely.

Democrats, citing comments last month by Speaker Newt Gingrich that the GOP
should reconsider its position on excluding benefits for taxpaying immigrants,
sought to soften the restrictions with amendments allowing benefits for
noncitizens who had paid taxes for five years and for non-citizen veterans or
their families.

Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Republican from Fort Lauderdale who chairs the
subcommittee, said Gingrich's comments highlighted disagreements within both
parties over how noncitizens should be treated.

Acknowledging there were ''pretty strong arguments'' in favor of the amendments,
Shaw said: ''I think, if the money makes sense, it's something we should
consider.''

But without available estimates of how much the amendments would cost, Shaw led
subcommittee Republicans in rejecting the proposals. Rep. John Ensign, R-Nev.,
abstained from the vote on allowing veterans' benefits.

Shaw said he hoped to obtain more information before the full committee takes up
the bill and predicted the amendments might be adopted at that level.

Democrats put up only token opposition to the exclusion of non-citizens from the
welfare rolls.

Rep. Fortney ''Pete'' Stark,

D-Calif., said different rules should apply to immigrants who had worked, paid
taxes and then found themselves needing assistance.

''These are people who are here legally and have obeyed the law,'' Stark said.
''We're working at cross-purposes of having them be law-abiding citizens if we
would take advantage of the status of their birth.''

Shaw argued that noncitizens are denied certain rights enjoyed by citizens, such
as voting.

''I look at it as a question of who are we primarily responsible to, and I see
that we're primarily responsible to the citizens of this country,'' Shaw said.

Many immigrants are admitted to the United States with the sponsorship of a
citizen, but courts have held that the sponsors are not legally bound to provide
for the immigrants' welfare.

The Republican bill would tighten that commitment to make sponsors legally
responsible for the incoming residents.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Chairman E. Clay Shaw Jr. (left)
talks to Rep. Harold Ford, D-Tenn., during a hearing on welfare reform before
the House Ways and Means subcommittee on human resources Tuesday.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              262 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 20, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

TRADING OLD GREEN CARD FOR NEW MEANS LONG WAIT

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH GARDENS


Noncitizens who were granted residency status in the United States before 1979
have until March 20 to replace their green cards with a new pink-tone
counterfeit-resistant card.

Getting the new card at the busy immigration office in Palm Beach County is no
easy task. Typical waits are two hours, said Lisa Boatwright, district
adjudication officer at the U.S. Department of Immigration and Naturalization
Service office in Palm Beach Gardens.

The office west of Interstate 95 serves seven counties as far north as Indian
River County and west to Hendry County.

Boatwright said from 20 to 50 people a day have visited the office to file for
the new identification card. Applicants must wait in line at the INS office at
Northlake Boulevard to pick up an application - and return again for another
wait when they are ready to file the completed form.

The cost of filing an application is $ 75.

The so-called green cards, issued to noncitizens who are granted permanent
residency in the United States, are used to qualify for employment, benefits and
reentry from abroad.

INS rules require that anyone holding a pre-1979 card, known as an I-151 card,
must apply for the new card, known as an I-551, before March 20.

Boatwright said the new card is coded to prevent duplication and alteration.

''There are 20 different ways built into the card to identify it as valid,'' she
said.

Applicants who cannot afford the $ 75 fee may request a waiver. Elderly and
disabled people unable to travel to an INS office may ask for special
assistance. For information, call 844-4341.

HOW TO GET THE NEW CARD

CALL (800) 755-0777 and order Form I-90 by mail. Takes seven to 10 days.

FILL OUT the form, bring a money order for $ 75 to the INS office at 4360
Northlake Blvd., Palm Beach Gardens. The office opens between 6-7 a.m. Monday
through Thursday and attends to the first 200 customers. A typical wait if you
are among the first 200 people in line is two hours.

AN OPTION: Forms can be picked up at the Broward County main library, 100 S.
Andrews Ave., Fort Lauderdale. INS officers will accept completed forms at the
library on Wednesdays between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.  info. box at end of text

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              263 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 20, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

EXILES OFFERING SPONSORSHIP TO CUBAN DETAINEES

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 739 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Roofer Jose Aragon believes he has a way to abate anti-immigrant sentiment and
help bring his brother and sister-in-law to South Florida from the Guantanamo
refugee camp.

Aragon and his wife have pledged that they will pay for the couple's housing and
all other expenses in the United States, relieving taxpayers of the burden.
''With God's help, I know I can take care of them,'' said Aragon, who earns
about $ 30,000 a year when business is good. ''If I have to work longer hours, I
will do it.''

Aragon of Hialeah is one of an estimated 15,000 sponsors throughout South
Florida, but mainly in Dade County, who have signed up with the Cuban American
National Foundation to provide financial support for relatives and others who
have been detained since last summer at the U.S. Naval base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba. There are about 24,000 there. The last of the detainees in Panama were
moved this weekend to Guantanamo.

Sponsors supported by private sector donations may end up spending more than $
30 million on immigrant expenses until the new arrivals are able to support
themselves.

Such expressed commitment has done little to allay state officials who fear that
sponsorship could trigger another rafter exodus from Cuba. Or the program could
backfire, they say, and Florida may have to pick up the tabs of delinquent
sponsors.

''If Guantanamo is seen as a temporary inconvenience or a halfway point to
Miami, then this program could open the floodgates,'' said Joe Pena, Gov. Lawton
Chiles' special assistant in South Florida. ''Obviously, we in Florida are very
sensitive to the number of immigrants who come here and their financial needs.''

Potential sponsors are interviewed to determine whether they can meet the
financial requirements. Each must submit a current tax return showing a family
income of at least $ 30,000 and put up a ''down payment'' of $ 500. The program
is so elaborate that exile groups are recruiting private schools to educate
children from Guantanamo. And each refugee may receive free health insurance for
a year, paid by private benefactors.

''These people will not get welfare or apply for food stamps,'' said Francisco
''Pepe'' Hernandez, foundation president and one of the sponsorship program's
architects. ''We will see to their every need.''

The effort by exiles comes as a Republican-sponsored bill that would eliminate
most welfare benefits for noncitizen immigrants is making its way through
Congress. The bill also could make legally binding a sponsor's pledge to provide
for an incoming resident's expenses. Until now, courts have held that sponsors
are not legally required to pay for an immigrant's welfare.

''It doesn't matter whether I have to legally pay or not,'' said Graciela Perez,
who hopes to sponsor a cousin. ''This is a matter of families and I'm not going
to abandon a relative.''

The foundation projects that 16,000 to 20,000 Cubans could be paroled into South
Florida this year under the ambitious sponsorship program, but there are many
snags to be worked out.

The biggest is the U.S. government's insistence that a sponsor does not
guarantee parole for a Guantanamo detainee. Moreover, only an estimated 6,000 of
the refugees have received the preliminary go-ahead for parole because they are
elderly or unaccompanied minors. The rest remain held under the strict U.S.
policy of indefinite detention.

The administration has not agreed to review the asylum cases of the detainees -
a process which could take more than a year.

''It's commendable that these people are willing to assist the federal
government and the state in reducing taxpayer liability,'' said Justice
Department spokeswoman Ana Cobian. ''But a relative's willingness to pay is not
a factor taken into consideration as to what number or who gets paroled out of
Guantanamo.''

Nonetheless, the foundation and other Cuban exile groups who are working
together as the Ad Hoc Committee Family Reunification Program, are not
dissuaded.

They are convinced that the Clinton Administration will slowly come around to
granting every Guantanamo detainee a review of his or her political asylum
claim. The sponsorship program will deflect any public uproar over the cost of
refugee resettlement, they predict.

''There are many people working hard to make this happen and, most importantly,
they are putting up money,'' said Aragon. ''There is no way this is going to
fail.''

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              264 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

LET WELL-OFF FOREIGN RETIREES LIVE IN U.S.

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 96 words


Until 1987, the U.S. had a law allowing foreigners and alien retirees with
sufficient financial resources to reside here as non-resident aliens. Why this
law was rescinded I don't know, but I hope it will be reenacted, and soon.

These ''guests'' in our country spend lots of money (on housing, furnishings,
dining, and for arts and entertainment, etc.) thus creating jobs that in turn
help offset the national debt and reduce the deficit.

Illegal aliens need help, and are a drain on our resources. Let's reverse this
situation.

Erika Faller

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              265 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 9, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CHILES WANTS 638 CUBANS IN FEDERAL PRISON

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The governor's office is negotiating to transfer 638 Mariel boatlift Cubans from
state prisons to federal penitentiaries.

The talks with the U.S. Department of Justice are part of Gov. Lawton Chiles'
push to get the federal government to accept more responsibility for the burden
of immigration on Florida.

''We don't have an agreement in place yet, but we are engaged in negotiations,''
Mark Schlakman, Chiles' attorney on immigration, said Wednesday.

Schlakman said the state wants the Cuban inmates to serve the rest of their
state-imposed sentences in federal prisons.

''We are looking at ways to maximize our prison space,'' Schlakman said.

In the past year, the state has turned over 254 inmates to federal immigration
officials for deportation to free up prison beds. Those inmates can qualify for
conditional clemency if they are non-violent and agree to deportation.

Most of the Mariel Cubans could not qualify for release because they were
convicted of violent crimes, Schlakman said. Also, the U.S. has no deportation
agreement with Cuba.

The transfer of Mariel Cubans would ease crowding at the Glades Correctional
Institution in Belle Glade, where 56 of the 1,150 inmates are classified as
Mariel Cubans.

''It would mean we would have 56 empty beds that we could fill with other
inmates,'' said John Townsend, assistant superintendent at GCI.

Since all Mariel Cubans are close-custody inmates, the cost of providing prison
capacity for them is higher than for light-custody inmates, Townsend said.

The Mariel Cubans refer to the 1980 exodus of 125,000 Cubans from the port of
Mariel west of Havana. Thousands who joined the refugee wave had been released
from Cuban prisons and mental hospitals.

Three of the five inmates who escaped from GCI in January were Mariel Cubans
including the last remaining fugitive, Juan Jesus Fleitas. The search for the
inmates cost the state more than $ 550,000 in manpower costs for the Department
of Law Enforcement and Department of Corrections.

Keeping the Mariel inmates in state prisons costs the state about $ 10 million a
year, according to Chiles' report last year on the impact of immigration on the
state.  The federal government reimbursed Florida only $ 672,000 in fiscal year
1993 for the incarceration of Mariel Cubans, the report said.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              266 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 16, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

WHY ARE CERTAIN FACTS RELEVANT?

BYLINE: CHARLES BOND

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A, LISTENING POST

LENGTH: 672 words


 L ast week, The Post profiled the women who formed Floridians for Immigration
Control. The group is one of two in the state that ''may promote a 1996
referendum to deny social services to undocumented immigrants,'' the article
said.
   The report, ''Activists defend immigration curbs: 'We are not haters,' ''
gave good insight on the issues, along with comments from founders Nancy Jacobs
of Boca Raton and JoAnn Peart of Delray Beach. Here is one example:
 '' 'Our major concern is that people understand we are not a racist
organization,' said Ms. Jacobs, a former flight attendant who is of Irish
descent and married to a Jewish man. 'We are not haters. We are just concerned
because we have lost control of our borders.' ''
   That paragraph brought a call from Nat Glasser of Lake Worth. He questioned
the ''relevancy'' of reporting that Ms. Jacobs is ''married to a Jew.''
   ''I don't know whether it lent anything to the story,'' Mr. Glasser said.
''And how come we're not given the religious or racial background of the second
woman?''
   Mr. Glasser recognized that the religious reference was given in the context
of racism allegations. But it still didn't work for him. While it didn't bother
me, I acknowledged that it might if I were Jewish. And I agreed to ask about it.

   ''I included it because Nancy Jacobs apparently felt it was relevant to the
story,'' said staff writer Bill Douthat. ''She brought up her husband's
background to make the point that she is not intolerant of other cultures.
   ''Peart took the same position,'' he added, ''but explained it in different
ways, such as hosting a number of foreign students in her home and traveling
abroad. I simply let them explain in their own way how they would answer critics
who claim their organization is prejudiced against immigrants.''
   Election oddity: As the paper has reported, Roy H. Wubker Jr. was a
challenger for the Juno Beach Town Council Group 1 seat. He earned the paper's
endorsement. Reporters learned Mr. Wubker was no longer on the ballot when they
picked up campaign disclosure forms on Monday. But word didn't get to Opinion
editors, who included Mr. Wubker in Tuesday's endorsement recap. You can be
certain editors are working to prevent a recurrence of that snafu.
   Jack Folmer of Lake Worth clipped the Feb. 28 article ''Muslims break ground
for mosque'' and mailed it back with a simple question: ''Where?''
   The answer, found neither in the article nor photo caption, is in West Palm
Beach on Purdy Lane near Haverhill Road.
   ''Do I get a prize for being the 1,000th caller?'' quipped Sol Hofkins. The
answer was no, and not just because Mr. Hofkins was the first and only caller to
note the gaffe in the review of Andrew Lloyd Webber's Joseph and the Amazing
Technicolor Dreamcoat, which played recently at the Kravis Center in West Palm
Beach.
   The article said the show ''tells the biblical story of Jacob's youngest son,
who gains wealth and his brothers' envy when he interprets the Egyptian
pharaoh's dreams.'' But as Mr. Hofkins noted, ''Benjamin, not Joseph, was the
youngest son of Jacob.''
   Just in the mail from Robert A. Clabault of Stuart is the paper's photo of
the twin-engine Tico Belle at last weekend's St. Lucie County International
Airport Delight of Flight air show. ''Built in 1942,'' said the caption, ''the
C-47A aircraft dropped bombs over Normandy, the Battle of the Bulge and other
battles.''
   That prompted Mr. Clabault's response. ''You guys really need at least one
editor who knows something about World War II. The C-47 was a cargo plane. It
carried cargo, frequently dropped by parachute. It might have dropped
paratroopers. It did not drop bombs; neither does a 747 nor the Concorde.''
   A simple formula, says one editor who knows, is ''C'' for cargo and ''B'' for
bomber. Since fighters were first designated pursuit planes, they got a ''P.''
   Charles Bond is an editorial writer for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              267 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 20, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

HARD-WORKING IMMIGRANTS DIDN'T CAUSE OUR NATION'S ILLS

BYLINE: SISTER REGINA TUTZO

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A, LOCAL FORUM

LENGTH: 668 words


Some people who worry about the economy of our country, about increasing
violence and corruption, blame these ills on ''the foreigners'': people from
other countries, of different cultures, languages and races. I agree that there
are many threats to our society, but I do not believe that ''the foreigners''
should bear all the blame.

I want to talk about the people who make it possible for us to have flowers for
our weddings, funerals, banquets, birthdays, etc. The people who give us an
abundance of vegetables, fruit, sugar, wine, etc. People who contribute to the
beauty of Florida by taking care of our gardens and yards, our golf courses and
our homes and offices.

Desperate workers reap few benefits

Do we know that the people who are illegally in this country and who live in the
labor camps receive minimum wage, and do not have any kind of health insurance?
When they are sick, they have to leave the camp, and do not have a place to
live. But they have been working in the fields for us. Do we know that those who
have suffered serious injuries while working are returned to their countries as
though they were pieces of broken machinery?

Do we know that some people working in the sugar cane fields have lost a foot,
leg or arm. Do we know that the pesticides used in the grape fields in
California cause kidney cancer in the children of workers? The people who fight
for human rights have worked for years and years to have a law passed to protect
those workers and their families. Do we know that the law has been passed, but
now there are powerful people doing whatever they can to keep this law from
going into effect. Perhaps we should think of that when we eat grapes or drink
wine.

Do we know that people who are interested in human rights have worked for a long
time so that the Jamaican sugar cane workers could have better working
conditions and housing? The result has been that the companies have replaced (in
most cases) the workers with machines, thereby denying the workers the
possibility of earning a minimum salary.

Do we know that those ''foreigners'' who are permanent residents of our country
pay their taxes? Do we know that when they apply for their family to come, they
have to pay a large amount of money for each one of them? When they file Form
I-130, they have to submit a money order for $ 80 for each person. When they
come to the final step, they have to pay $ 780 for their wives, or go back to
their own countries and stay for 90 days before they can be interviewed by
immigration officers. A fee of $ 130 is charged for each child. These people
must be very desperate to be willing to come here to suffer discrimination,
exploitation and pay so much money to be able to be reunited with their
families.

'Remember that you were a slave in Egypt'

Those of us who are from Jewish or Christian traditions know that God has
created all of us equal. This is also stated in our Declaration of Independence.
In the Bible, the Lord says to the people of Israel, ''Do not violate the right
of the foreigner, remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and Yahweh, your God,
rescued you. There, I command you to do this. When you harvest the wheat in your
fields, if you drop a sheaf, do not return to pick it up, but let it be there
for the foreigner. So Yahweh will bless you in all your work.'' And for us
Christians, we have the words of Jesus ''I was a stranger and you welcomed me.''

Do you think that in 1995, God is repeating those same things to us, the
citizens of the United States? Would He say to us ''remember that you or your
parents or your ancestors came to this beautiful country, these United States of
America, in search of the American dream.'' Let us listen to the cry of the
poor, of those who do not have any voice in our society to respond to what we
are saying about them.

Regina Tutzo is director of Hispanic ministry of the Diocese of Palm Beach, in
Delray Beach. She wrote this article for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Regina Tutzo (mug)

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              268 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 4, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

WE MUSTN'T LET REFUGEES OVERRUN U.S.

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 171 words


In response to your article ''General warns of Guantanamo riots'':

With a debt of $ 4.8 trillion, the United States can ill afford to maintain the
refugee camp at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba, which costs taxpayers $ 1
million a day, nor can we afford to admit the rafters, who need services that
Florida cannot provide adequately to its residents now. A reversal in policy to
admit Cubans would also encourage an exodus from Cuba. The solution is to stand
firm and re-patriate rafters.

The U.S. must end special treatment for people from any country. It is high time
we adopted a five-year moratorium on immigration to care for American citizens
of all racial backgrounds. We need to develop a responsible immigration policy
that would take into consideration our limited resources.

JoAnn Peart

Delray Beach

Editor's note: JoAnn Peart is co-founder of Floridians for Immigration Control,
which may try to get an amendment on Florida's 1996 ballot to deny social
services to undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), 1994 FILE PHOTO, Cubans paddle away from Havana at sunset
Sept. 2, during last year's refugee crisis.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              269 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 15, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

LAWYER HELPED DEFRAUD IMMIGRANTS, CLIENTS SAY

BYLINE: VAL ELLICOTT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


The U.S. government is hoping witnesses' testimony will defuse Michael Blank's $
20 million suit. Blank says an immigration agent destroyed his practice by
trying to prove the attorney bribed inspectors to approve his clients'
applications.

Immigration lawyer Michael Blank played a supporting role in a deception that
bilked would-be British immigrants out of hundreds of thousands of dollars in
the 1980s, according to testimony before a federal judge this week.

U.S. government attorneys hope the testimony will help defuse Blank's claims,
detailed in his $ 20 million damages suit against the government, that a rogue
immigration agent destroyed his law practice eight years ago in a reckless bid
to prove allegations of fraud and bribery.

U.S. District Judge Daniel T.K. Hurley will rule on the suit Tuesday.

Larry Rosen, representing the government, spent the week trying to show
immigration agent Darrell Brewer had acted in good faith on complaints that
Blank indirectly aided a scheme to dupe British immigrants into making
disastrous investments in the United States. The immigrants were told the
investments would improve their chances of obtaining permanent residency.

''He (Blank) totally ruined my life and many other people's lives,'' said Liesel
Appel of Jupiter, who recalled losing more than $ 150,000 in a failing Palm
Beach restaurant.

Most of the business deals were engineered by Peter Miller, an immigration
consultant. Witnesses said Blank didn't push them to close deals with Miller,
but endorsed Miller's business advice and provided advice himself that
facilitated Miller's plans.

''I can't believe Michael Blank didn't know anything about it,'' said Terri
Widdowson, who lost $ 130,000 in a carpet-business purchase brokered by Miller.
''He was helping Mr. Miller for years.''

Blank's attorney, Robert Romani, said Blank had no idea what Miller was doing.
''What happened to these people obviously is a sad thing, but it's nothing that
Michael Blank did,'' Romani said.

He said the witnesses are a handful of dissatisfied clients as opposed to more
than 1,000 who are grateful to Blank for his assistance in helping them obtain
residency in the U.S.

According to testimony, British citizens contacted Miller after seeing a
newspaper advertisement for his company, British American Consultants.

Miller, whose brochures used Blank's name as a reference, told clients they
needed to sell all their assets in England and invest at least $ 75,000 in one
of his companies to qualify for permanent residency in the U.S.

Blank backed up that advice, according to testimony. And the ex-clients who
testified in court said he told them they could live and work in the U.S. on a
tourist visa, which is illegal. Blank also provided false information to
immigration officials while seeking long-term visas for his British clients,
they said.

''My husband signed many documents that were blank,'' June Malynn of West Palm
Beach told Hurley. ''We were told they were purely for the internal workings of
the law firm.''

Malynn and others said they trusted Blank unconditionally because in Britain
attorneys are considered entirely above reproach.

Romani denies Blank lied to clients or falsified visa documents. If clients
remained in the United States illegally, he said, it was usually because they
hadn't given Blank documents he needed to process their applications.

The witnesses who testified first told their stories to Brewer, an immigration
agent who obtained an indictment in 1988 accusing Miller, Blank and attorney
Kerry Schwencke of earning more than $ 2 million defrauding dozens of British
citizens they persuaded to immigrate illegally to the United States.

That indictment was dismissed after a federal magistrate accused the government
of ''gross misconduct'' by ''presenting false and misleading statements'' to
grand jurors who indicted the three men.

Brewer told grand jurors Blank had lied to prospective clients about having a
100 percent success rate obtaining visas, but it was Brewer himself who made the
claim untrue by ordering indefinite holds on Blank's applications, Magistrate
Ann Vitunac said.

Brewer has since retired.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              270 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 18, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CHIEF PREDICTS NO HAITIAN, CUBAN EXODUS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The nation's immigration chief said Monday she does not expect a repeat of last
year's refugee waves into Florida from Haiti and Cuba.

''The situation this year is entirely different,'' Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said in a news conference
with Gov. Lawton Chiles to announce an agreement to speed deportation of
undocumented immigrants in Florida's prisons.

Meissner said the threat of new refugee waves has been lessened by the
restoration of democracy in Haiti and a promise from Cuban President Fidel
Castro to deter Cubans leaving the islands for the United States.

On Sunday, 115 Haitians were found hidden in a freighter off Miami attempting to
enter the country.

''We don't view these arrivals as any kind of a beginning of a large
migration,'' Meissner said.

The agreement signed by Meissner and Chiles allows deportation hearings to be
held in prisons before inmates finish their sentences. The INS is hiring 17
agents and hearing officers for the program.

About 300 nonviolent criminal immigrants once held in Florida prisons have been
deported since the state began giving commutations of sentences for those who
agreed to leave the country. Holding hearings at the prisons could lead to the
deportation of up to 2,200 a year.

''These criminals came to our country illegally, they broke our laws and now we
want them to go home,'' said Chiles.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STATE NEWS / Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Gov. Lawton Chiles and U.S.
immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner announce an agreement to speed
deportation on Monday in Tallahassee.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              271 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 22, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

'MOST WANTED' FUGITIVE KILLER ARRESTED AT WORK NEAR BOCA

BYLINE: ELIOT KLEINBERG

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 259 words


A man on the ''Ten Most Wanted List'' of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service was arrested this week west of Boca Raton, officials said Friday.

Elfrey Reyes-Contreras, 38, was arrested Monday at Thomas Produce, 9800 Clint
Moore Road, where he worked as a picker. He was returned to a federal detention
center in Louisiana that he had escaped from in 1992, INS officials said.

Reyes-Contreras was one of thousands of criminals released from Cuban jails and
brought to Florida in the 1980 Mariel boatlift.

He served seven years of a 15-year sentence at a state prison in Massachusetts
for beating a man to death in Boston in 1983. During his stay Reyes-Contreras,
diagnosed by doctors as a paranoid-schizophrenic, stabbed and injured another
prisoner with a pick.

After his release from the Massachusetts jail in 1992, INS moved him to the
federal center in Oakdale, La. But he wasn't there long. In December 1992, he
and three other inmates were taken to a nearby local jail for medical treatment.
They tied bed sheets together and climbed down the wall from an eighth-floor
window.

Federal officials had been pursuing Reyes-Contreras around the country and had
spotted him in North Carolina, but he then came to the Boca Raton area, said
Bruce Chadbourne, assistant director for the INS in Boston.

Officials from INS and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office contacted the
produce company, which cooperated in Reyes-Contreras' arrest, Chadbourne said.
He declined to say how INS was tipped about Reyes-Contreras' location.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Elfrey Reyes-Contreras (mug)

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              272 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 3, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO TAKE IN 21,000 CUBANS;
FUTURE RAFTERS TO BE RETURNED DIRECTLY TO ISLAND

BYLINE: JULIA MALONE

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1245 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a dramatic about-face, the Clinton administration said Tuesday that thousands
of Cubans stranded for months in refugee camps at Guantanamo Bay will be
eligible to move to the United States but that rafters who flee the island will
be returned home.

Attorney General Janet Reno said the nearly 21,000 refugees now at the U.S.
naval base will be able to apply to immigrate on a case-by-case basis.

Reno unveiled the policy shift as part of a new U.S.-Cuban agreement to
''regularize'' immigration between the two countries.

The new policy of repatriating Cubans completes a change, begun last summer,
that ends 35 years of official U.S. treatment of Cubans as heroic
freedom-seekers. The decision drew some strong opposition from the Cuban
American exile community and prompted a ''rebellion'' at the State Department's
Cuban desk, where officials said Director Dennis Hays and his deputy, Nancy
Mason, asked for transfers.

Cuba agreed to take back the refugees after secret talks between Undersecretary
of State Peter Tarnoff and Cuban representative Ricardo Alarcon in New York
April 19 and in Toronto last weekend. Some senior officials said the decision
could open the way for a softening of Washington's relations with the government
of Fidel Castro.

''Effective immediately, Cuban migrants intercepted at sea attempting to enter
the United States or who enter Guantanamo illegally, will be taken to Cuba''
where they will be allowed to apply for legal refugee status, the attorney
general said at a White House news conference.

The announcement came amid concerns that thousands more Cubans were preparing to
flee Castro's increasingly hard-pressed economy.

Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles, whose state will almost certainly bear the brunt of
resettling most of the newcomers, hailed the pact and predicted it would save
his state from a massive new landing of Cubans.

In Havana there were doubts about whether the new policy would work.

''I believe that if the American government allows those people to return, it
will provoke another exodus,'' said Carla Bolivar, 30, an unemployed fine arts
restorer in the Cuban capital. ''Every day brings more difficulties and higher
prices.''

Cuba's chief negotiator Ricardo Alarcon, president of the island's national
assembly, told the Reuter news agency: ''I think that it is a fair accord that
is in the interest of both the United States and Cuba.''

In the U.S. Congress, conservatives angrily denounced the policy of handing
refugees over to Cuban authorities.

Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Jesse Helms, R-N.C., blasted the agreement,
which he pointed out had been reached in secret negotiations.

''How sad that the United States is now viewed as an accomplice in Castro's
repression of the Cuban people,'' Helms said.

Violence feared

U.S. officials, in announcing the decision to allow the Cubans to leave
Guantanamo, said they were acting partly out of expectation of the outbreak of
violence. About 6,000 U.S. troops are overseeing an estimated 20,916 Cubans
picked up during last year's flotilla.

Rioting has forced the United States to close down a similar holding camp in
Panama.

Reno said that most of the Haitians detained at Guantanamo have been repatriated
and that U.S. officials are working on resettling about 400 who remain in the
camps.

But until now, there were no exit plans for the majority of the Cuban detainees,
who tend to be males, 15 to 32 years old. Gen. John Sheehan, commander-in-chief
of the U.S. Atlantic Command, said the detainees were growing frustrated.

The U.S. military has also been anxious to stop the budget drain. The camp at
Guantanamo costs $ 1 million a day to operate, said Sheehan. He added that the
military can now drop plans to spend $ 100 million to construct permanent
housing for the Cubans.

In September, Reno stated flatly that Cubans ''will not be eligible for
processing into the United States from Guantanamo.''

However, in the ensuing months the policy shifted to allow children and their
families to find U.S. sponsors and begin immigrating, as they are now doing at a
rate of 500 a month.

With Tuesday's shift, most of the remaining refugees will be brought to the
mainland during the next several months. A few hundred are expected to be
returned to Cuba because of a criminal record, medical, physical or mental
condition, or commission of acts of violence while at Guantanamo.

U.S. officials plan to allow 20,000 Cubans into the country this year, a number
that Reno said was not an increase, since a U.S.-Cuba pact last fall set that
level as a minimum. In recent years, there have been only a few thousand Cubans
immigrating to the United States annually.

Chiles defends policy

Reno acknowledged that Florida will bear the heaviest burden for resettling the
newcomers.

''Florida will certainly be a place that many of them seek to reside, and the
community has pulled together in an extraordinary way in trying to develop
sponsorships,'' said Reno, herself a Floridian.

Gov. Chiles, who has been working closely with the White House on Cuban
immigration problems, defended the new policy, saying that the resettling
process will be ''difficult but a necessary step.''

The pact ''forces Castro's government to control Cuba's borders, preventing
hundreds of thousands of potential rafters from making landfall in Florida,''
Chiles said.

U.S. officials, sensitive to charges that the United States was inching toward
diplomatic relations with Cuba, denied any movement in that direction.

''I want to make clear that the United States policy towards Cuba remains the
same,'' insisted Undersecretary of State Tarnoff. ''We will continue to enforce
the economic embargo to pressure the Cuban regime to reform.''

Addressing the fear that new boat people returned to Cuba will be mistreated by
the Castro government, Reno said the Cubans had ''provided a commitment to the
United States government'' that they will impose ''no adverse consequences or
reprisals'' on those picked up and returned.

VOICES

'It's a very sad day. We are punishing people who are not at fault. The rafters
are going to become targets in the sea.'

- Jorge Avellana, Lake Worth

'Why are we so lucky? Why do we keep getting stuck with these problems and
paying the bill when we are not sending out any invitations?'

- Rep. Suzanne Jacobs, D-Delray Beach

'We are just tapped out financially. Look what we are doing with the school
budget. We can't afford it and it's obvious.'

- Rep. William Andrews, R-Delray Beach

'It's a bad deal for the United States government. Once again, Fidel Castro is
dictating foreign policy to the United States. Instead, the United States should
establish an international embargo so that Fidel Castro is removed from power.'

- Sen. Al Gutman, R-Miami

'How can you trust them when a few months ago they said no one from Guantanamo
would step foot on our soil? The American people have been lied to. South
Florida will suffer immeasurably in the meantime.'

- JoAnn Peart, Floridians for Immigration Control, Delray Beach

'We consider the promise of the Castro government, which has been repeatedly
condemned for violating human rights, as totally worthless.'

- Francisco Hernandez, president of the Cuban American National Foundation

Cox Caribbean correspondent Anne-Marie O'Connor and Palm Beach Post wire
services contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), GREG LOVETT/STAFF FILE PHOTO, Cuban rafters are picked up
by the Coast Guard in September 1994. President Clinton feared another exodus of
rafters like the one that brought thousands to Guantanamo.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              273 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 4, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SHOWDOWN LOOMS OVER CUBA POLICY

BYLINE: BOB DEANS

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton and Congress are on an apparent collision course over Cuba
policy, with a showdown likely in the coming weeks over how best to urge
political and economic reforms in Havana.

After the secret, high-level talks with Fidel Castro's government that resulted
in Tuesday's U.S. policy reversal on Cuban immigrants, administration officials
declined Wednesday to rule out future negotiations.

''We obviously negotiated this with the Cuban government, and those negotiations
were conducted during the last several weeks,'' said State Department spokesman
Nicholas Burns. ''I just have no way of knowing at this point whether there will
be further contacts at a high level.''

Administration officials insisted that Tuesday's immigration accord was not a
first step toward normalized relations with Cuba.

But they left the door open for additional measures aimed at promoting reform in
Cuba, such as increased travel and academic exchanges and opening news bureaus.

Under the new immigrants policy, the United States will forcibly repatriate
fleeing Cubans for the first time in three decades. The administration also
announced its intention to allow most of the 21,000 Cubans at the U.S. Naval
Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to resettle in the United States.

Details of the agreement were worked out in two rounds of secret talks between
Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff and Cuban National Assembly President
Ricardo Alarcon.

The program to resettle the approximately 6,000 refugees at Guantanamo
identified as humanitarian cases - mostly children, the elderly and infirm -
will continue until July, when the process of resettling the remaining 15,000
Cubans at the naval base will begin, the Pentagon said.

They will be brought to Homestead Air Reserve Base south of Miami in three
charter flights each week. The process should take about nine months.

The agreement was bitterly denounced by Republicans on Capitol Hill and many
Cuban-American leaders in south Florida.

''The very notion that the United States, the world's beacon of freedom, has
worked out such a deal, in secret, with one of the world's most notorious
violators of human rights, is nothing short of blood-curdling,'' said Rep. Dan
Burton, R-Ind., chairman of the House International Relations Western Hemisphere
subcommittee.

Republicans charged the administration was opening the door for broader
U.S.-Cuban negotiations and perhaps a graduated easing of the 33-year-old trade
embargo against the communist nation.

Despite administration denials, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman
Jesse Helms, R-N.C., and others want to nip in the bud any prospect of continued
negotiations with Castro.

Helms has proposed legislation aimed at toughening existing economic sanctions
against Cuba, which the White House opposes. Hearings are expected this month on
the Helms bill. A full Senate vote is likely this spring.

Burton has proposed similar legislation in the House.

Clinton, the ninth U.S. president who has worked to undermine Castro since he
set up his communist regime in 1959, has a two-track approach to promoting
reform in Cuba.

It applies pressure on Castro by enforcing the trade embargo, holding out the
promise of gradual easing in response to change in Havana.

At the same time, the administration is promoting increased cultural ties
between Americans and Cubans, through improved telecommunications links, for
example, and cultural exchanges, medical and humanitarian aid.

The White House opposes the Helms and Burton legislation - called the Cuban
Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act - because it would limit those options.

''There's a general problem that we have with any attempt to, in effect, tie the
president's hands on how he can respond to moves toward transition in Cuba,''
said a National Security Council official. ''This bill clearly would do that.''

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Cuban refugee Juan Batista Sosa,
dressed as Cuban President Fidel Castro, entertains other refugees at the U.S.
Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay on Wednesday.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              274 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                       May 5, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

DEAL-BROKER FACES DEPORTATION AFTER LYING FOR VISA

BYLINE: GARY KANE

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A South African deal-broker, whose transactions left a trail of angry investors,
agreed Thursday to accept deportation as an alternative to standing trial on
charges that he lied to obtain a visa.

Leslie Greyling pleaded guilty in federal court to a felony charge accusing him
of lying on a June 14, 1994, visa application that has allowed him to operate
his stock business from a Palm Beach mansion.

Greyling failed to say on the application that he had been arrested in 1988 in
Boca Raton on an Ohio warrant charging him with writing bad checks, according to
court records.

The 42-year-old businessman agreed not to oppose deportation as part of a plea
deal completed moments before attorneys were to begin selecting jurors for his
trial.

Greyling faces a maximum of five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine when he is
sentenced on Aug. 4. However, prosecutors agreed to recommend no prison time in
exchange for the guilty plea.

''The matter of imprisonment will be up to the court,'' said Assistant U.S.
Attorney Michael Mcauliffe. ''But it's my understanding the INS (Immigration and
Naturalization Service) has already instituted deportation administrative
proceedings.''

Greyling, who is free on $ 75,000 bond until his sentencing, could not be
reached for comment at his oceanfront home.

The only other Palm Beach resident attending the court hearing is less than
satisfied with the outcome.

''If he's deported, what happens to the civil suits,'' wondered Adele Kahn of
the House of Kahn jewelers.

Kahn is one of several people suing Greyling. Her lawsuit argues that Greyling
owes roughly $ 80,000 for jewelry he purchased on Christmas Eve in 1993.

As a Florida resident, Greyling created about 40 companies, though most lived
the life span of a single deal. His primary company, Members Service Corp.,
deals in complicated stock and investment transactions.

A lawsuit filed last year in New York alleges Greyling and his associates
manipulated Members Service stock for their personal gain. The company
repeatedly issued press releases reporting that lucrative deals were near
completion only to later report that they fell apart in a flurry of stock
trading, the lawsuit argues. Greyling denies the allegations.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              275 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                 May 7, 1995, Sunday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

KIRKPATRICK: CLINTON'S CUBAN POLICY 'APPALLING'

BYLINE: BARBARA FEDER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Always-outspoken Jeane Kirkpatrick had just one word for the Clinton
administration's historic decision to admit 21,000 Cuban refugees now at
Guantanamo but to return future rafters to Cuba:

''It's appalling,'' the former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations said
Saturday before giving the commencement address at Lynn University's graduation.

Kirkpatrick, who teaches at Georgetown University and is a senior fellow at the
American Enterprise Institute, condemned last week's policy reversal as a
''shocking departure'' from U.S. immigration policy, which traditionally has
allowed asylum for political refugees.

The controversial decision, which for the first time allows U.S. ships to return
refugees to the communist Cuban government, isn't sustainable, Kirkpatrick said.
She also criticized the secret negotiations between U.S. and Cuban officials
that led to the decision.

''This is a kind of rehabilitation for Fidel Castro,'' she said. ''As long as
there is political oppression in Cuba, we need to leave a door open'' for
refugees. But Kirkpatrick would not say how she would improve the U.S. position
on Cuban immigration.

Kirkpatrick, a former Democrat who switched parties shortly after leaving the
U.N. in 1985, also said she supports U.S. Sen. Bob Dole's presidential bid. She
described the Kansas Republican as ''marvelously equipped'' for the office.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), GREG LOVETT/Staff Photographer, Lynn University President
Donald Ross and Jeane Kirkpatrick participate in commencement exercises Saturday
morning.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              276 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 10, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SAVING OUR STATE FOR TUBERCULOSIS

BYLINE: GEORGE MCEVOY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 640 words


What we need today are more people like my old pal, Sidney the Skeptic.

We always call him that because he never takes anything at face value. His
life's credo, in fact, is a quote from Wilson Mizner: ''Faith is a wonderful
thing, but doubt gets you an education.''

When I ran into him the other day, he was reading the paper and chuckling to
himself.

What is the cause of your jollity, I inquired.

''It's this new group,'' he said, ''the one calling itself the Save Our State
Committee. They have to be the funniest thing to come along since George Carlin
was a pup.''

I've heard of them, I replied. They're the ones pushing a Prop 187, like the one
in California, cracking down on illegal immigrants, aren't they?

''Yes, indeed,'' Sidney cackled, ''and along the way, they've come out
foursquare in favor of illiteracy and tuberculosis, among other things. For
instance, their proposition would bar illegal immigrants from receiving free
public education. They claim that Florida spends $ 425 million a year on
teaching undocumented immigrants, and all that money could be saved if we just
bolted the school door on them.''

It is a lot of money, I mused.

''Sure it is,'' Sid nodded. ''And how much do they think it will cost us to
support all those people if they are denied the chance to educate and better
themselves? Do these Save Our State fanatics really believe it will be cheaper
to create a permanent underclass of illiterates?

''At the same time,'' Sidney continued, ''there's another bunch, calling
themselves the FLA-187 Committee, who not only would deny most state services to
undocumented immigrants but demands that English be made the official language
of Florida. And anyone who could not write and speak what they call
'comprehensible English' would be barred from public employment.''

Good Lord, I gasped. Lawton Chiles and Buddy McKay would have to leave office.

''Half the state legislature would have to quit,'' Sid sighed, ''especially all
those pork choppers from the Panhandle, with their chitlins-and-ham-gravy
accents.''

But what's puzzling, Sidney said, is how these immigrants are going to learn
English if they are denied public education.

The anti-immigrant forces also would forbid free health care except for
emergency services, and that really appeared to tickle Sidney's skeptical
sensibilities.

''By the time a condition becomes an emergency, it obviously has progressed to
the serious state,'' he observed. ''By then, it's expensive to treat. If they
had caught it early, with routine medical care, maybe it could have been cured
with a couple of those $ 50 aspirins the hospitals sell you.

''And then there's tuberculosis,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, a lot of the
undocumented immigrants from poor countries have TB or another infectious
disease. These Prop 187 characters would deny those people treatment. In other
words, they would turn hundreds, maybe thousands, of folks with TB and worse
loose on the state. And where do such people most often find work? In
restaurants, my friend, as dishwashers and food handlers.''

How about the little kids, I asked.

''The children of undocumented immigrants would not be eligible to receive
vaccinations,'' Sidney said. ''So there's another source of future disease. I'm
not sure the Prop 187 supporters want to save our state or unleash an epidemic
on it.''

Well, I said, like it or not, they're going to be out in the shopping malls
pretty soon with their petitions, collecting signatures to put this on the
ballot. And after all, I added, these people mean well.

Sidney the Skeptic laughed out loud.

''Mean well?'' he roared. ''Of course, they mean well. Airheads like that always
mean well. Hell, when you think about it, Typhoid Mary meant well!''

George McEvoy is a columnist for The Palm Beach Post.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              277 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 11, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IGNORE THE EXTREMISTS IN DEALING WITH CASTRO

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 542 words


President Clinton's Cuba policy has drifted. For the moment, it's drifted in the
right direction. The administration should continue to insist on orderly
immigration and should acknowledge that talks with Fidel Castro can be useful.

Talking with Castro is anathema to far-right Cuban exiles, who were further
angered by a policy change that had its first impact Tuesday, when 13 Cuban
rafters were returned to Havana. But the current situation proves that talks can
benefit America. Negotiations with Castro produced an agreement to prevent
uncontrolled waves of refugees from arriving in South Florida. Talks also
reinforced the promise that 20,000 Cubans a year can come to America without
risking their lives at sea.

Those aligned with Jorge Mas Canosa's Cuban American National Foundation say
talks with Castro are a betrayal. That characterization displays ingratitude
toward a country that has accepted hundreds of thousands of Cuban refugees and
will take in 60,000 more during the next three years.

That number includes at least 15,000 who had been held at Guantanamo with the
understanding they never would be admitted directly to America. Though Cuban
exiles pressed relentlessly for admission of that group, Mr. Mas Canosa now says
his organization will withhold promised financial support for those refugees
because the administration dared to speak with Castro.

Given the extent to which presidents and other politicians have bowed to him,
Mr. Mas Canosa might think he runs U.S. foreign policy. Even now, lawmakers,
including Sens. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., and, regrettably, Bob Graham, D-Fla., are
pushing a measure that would expand our economic embargo against Cuba in ways
that will worsen our trading relations with important partners such as Canada,
Great Britain and the European Union.

There is no reason to subordinate U.S. economic and immigration interests to the
interests of Mr. Mas Canosa, who makes no secret of his desire to be Cuba's
president. And to the extent that kowtowing to extreme views persuades Cubans
still in Cuba that America intends to let a free Cuba be run by Miami's exiles,
that policy may actually increase support for Castro.

A poll by Florida International University of Cuban exiles in Dade County and in
Union City, N.J., found that a majority favor negotiations with Castro that
could lead to democratic changes. Negotiations might not work. But nothing else
has, either.

Mr. Mas Canosa has intimidated such moderates into silence. Mr. Clinton's new
policy seems to show that moderation is gaining favor. But it's too early to be
sure. President Clinton flip-flopped on the Guantanamo refugees, and he still
could go back on his promise to return all Cubans intercepted at sea. The return
policy has its own problems, since shipboard hearings aren't adequate to ensure
that true political refugees aren't handed back to Castro.

Sen. Graham guided President Clinton to this point. The senator still won't back
broader talks with Castro. And he has been able to win only vague promises of
federal financial support for the Cubans who will come to South Florida. But the
overall policy change could help Florida - if Sen. Graham can persuade Mr.
Clinton not to drift backward.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              278 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 17, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

AUTHOR WAVES ANTI-IMMIGRATION FLAG IN S. FLORIDA

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ACCENT, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Anti-immigration movements are gaining attention from a controversial book
titled Alien Nation that asserts that foreign newcomers are altering the bedrock
culture of America.

Author Peter Brimelow's just-published book is becoming the manifesto of
anti-immigrant campaigns because of its plainly written arguments and its call
for a moratorium on new immigration and mass deportation of those in the country
illegally.

The British-born Brimelow was spreading his message Monday in Miami on a book
tour that brought him to West Palm Beach Tuesday for radio and television
interviews.

''It's the bible of the debate,'' said JoAnn Peart, co-founder of a Delray Beach
group calling for an immigration moratorium. ''The value is his British
perception. As Americans, we can't see the forest for the trees.''

Brimelow uses powerful and sometimes inflammatory language to argue that
America's decline began when Congress in 1965 made family reunification the
basis for immigration admission rather than what skills immigrants bring.

''That was the most destructive piece of legislation in America's history,''
Brimelow said. He said millions of immigrants flowed in from Third World
countries and settled in ''ethnic enclaves'' where they continue to speak their
own language and practice their own cultures.

Critics have branded Brimelow as a racist bomb-thrower because of the tone of
his writing. Miami immigration attorney Steve Forester confronted the author
during one television appearance and compared Alien Nation to Mein Kampf, Adolf
Hitler's book about Aryan superiority.

''It's ammunition for people who want to bash and scapegoat immigrants,''
Forrester said.  A recent Miami Herald editorial column said the raging rhetoric
of the book incites the kind of hatred that led to the bombing of the Oklahoma
City federal building.

Brimelow, a naturalized American citizen who writes for Forbes business magazine
and the conservative National Review, is ambiguous in his denial of racist
motivations.

''Who the hell cares if I'm a racist if the facts in the book are right,'' he
said after a speech Monday to the conservative American Forum.  America's racial
composition is a central theme throughout the book, which includes a chart
showing that non-Latin whites will make up only 53 percent of the population by
2050. Brimelow also observes that people found in immigration offices and New
York subways are ''almost entirely colored.''

The author makes a footnoted reference to The Bell Curve, the controversial book
on race and intelligence, and points out that book's claim that new immigrants
have IQs five points below the national average.

To buttress his claim that foreign enclaves are developing around the country,
Brimelow says the U.S. Census Bureau is counting a new category of Americans who
make up 2 percent of the population: native-born non-English speaking.

As for Miami's Cubans, Brimelow says they are more of a foreign policy problem
than an immigration problem. The U.S. should invade Cuba and depose Fidel Castro
because of his impact on American domestic politics, he said.

''The solution is to get rid of Castro,'' he told a radio audience Monday.
''Maybe the Cubans can have Cuba back and Americans may even be able to have
Miami back.''

Brimelow got a warm reception from the 100 people who attended the American
Forum at Coral Gables' Biltmore Hotel, where 80 percent of the employees are
Hispanic and city streets are lined with flags of foreign nations.

American Forum president Mike Thompson set the tone by condemning last week's
blockage of highways by Cuban-Americans protesting President Clinton's policy of
repatriating Cubans fleeing Cuba. Thompson said the protesting Cubans waved the
Cuban banner, ''the flag of a Communist country and not Old Glory.''

The author joined in the sentiment.

''I suppose you have to ask yourself to what extent this is part of America
anymore,'' he said.

Thompson compared Brimelow to Paul Revere, for raising the alarm over an
impending invasion. Brimelow compares himself to Thomas Paine, whose 1976
pamphlet Common Sense called for American independence from Britain.

He said immigration is causing ethnic population shifts with non-Latin whites
moving to America's heartland as Hispanics fill in the Southwest.

''The country is polarizing under this enormous wave of immigration,'' he said.
''It's coming apart, ethnically.''

California's referendum last year calling for a cutoff of public assistance and
free education to undocumented workers may have been the first step to ''save
the Republic,'' he said.

Calling his book ''a sort of a tool kit of arguments for ordinary Americans,''
Brimelow said he hopes the book will inspire citizen movements and political
reform, a job that he said few journalists or political figures want to do.

''You are constantly told that immigrants take the dirty jobs that American
won't touch,'' he said. ''And here I am.''

Conservative Pat Buchanan, a possible presidential candidate in 1996, was
photographed earlier this week holding a copy of Brimelow's book. Buchanan has
called for an immigration moratorium.

George Schulte, who came to hear Brimelow, said public opinion is at the boiling
point over uncontrolled immigration.

''It takes a cataclysmic event for the public to do something, and right now it
looks like it's an 8 on the Richter scale.''

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Author Peter Brimelow, a naturalized American citizen,
with his son, Alexander.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              279 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 27, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION GOOD; CUBAN ATTITUDE WRONG

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 129 words


As a descendant of immigrants from England, Scotland and Holland (most of whom
arrived 200-350 years ago), I fervently believe that immigration enhances our
nation and culture regardless of language, race, religion or national origin. To
me it would make a great deal of sense, both economic and social, to widen the
openings at our border.

But I find the actions of some in the Cuban-American community hypocritical and
disturbing. They seem to care only about increasing the flow of Cubans to our
nation, with complete indifference to Haitians, Asians and other Latin
Americans, who feel as strong a desire to join us in building a greater nation.

Shame on those responsible for this narrow-minded display of arrogance.

Morton A. Potter Jr.

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              280 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 3, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CUBANS ARE JUST TRYING TO HELP FAMILIES

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 176 words


My family immigrated from Cuba in the early 1960s. As an American citizen, I am
aware of the difficulties this great nation is facing. I can even understand the
reasoning behind the new immigration law. As a Cuban, I am offended by recent
letters in The Palm Beach Post written by people who have let their racism and
hatred cloud their judgment.

The issue has nothing to do with Cubans' being grateful to the United States. I
am sure all Cubans are grateful for everything we have accomplished through our
hard work. The real issue is that many Cubans still have family living under
oppressive conditions in Cuba. I ask that before anyone passes judgment, please
contemplate what actions you would take if family members cried out to you for
help. Would you ignore their cries of hunger and pain due to lack of food and
medicine?

We should all be grateful for what we have, but we need to show compassion
toward those who yearn for the freedom and opportunity that we as Americans so
often take for granted.

Hilda M. Santana

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              281 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 21, 1995, Wednesday, WEST EDITION

PRISON BUILDER CRITICIZED

BYLINE: MONIKA GONZALEZ

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: PAHOKEE


Esmor Correctional Services Inc., the company set to open a youthful offender
prison in the city next year, was denounced as ''privatization at its worst''
Tuesday after a detainee uprising Sunday in Elizabeth, N.J., left its newest
facility in shambles.

A group of immigrants took over the building early Sunday morning and barricaded
themselves in for five hours before law enforcement officers stormed in and
regained control. The Elizabeth center had been under investigation by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service after a first year filled with
allegations that guards mistreated immigrants.

Andrew Ruotolo Jr., a Union County, N.J., prosecutor, called Esmor
''privatization at its worst'' after local officials vowed to keep the INS
detention center from re-opening, according to The New York Times.

But officials in Florida said they don't think the company's problems in
Elizabeth will be repeated in Polk County and Pahokee, where Esmor is building
two high security, 350-bed, youthful offender prisons.

''We look at a lot of things other than cost,'' said Mark Hodges, executive
director of Florida's Correctional Privatization Commission. ''If the
Correctional Privatization Commission had focused just on price, you're going to
get the cheapest prison with the biggest problems. We have made a major effort
in getting a quality facility.''

Esmor's bid for a five-year contract to operate the New Jersey center was $ 20
million less than the next lowest bidder, Wackenhut Corrections of Coral Gables.

Esmor declined to comment Tuesday.

Pahokee City Manager Ken Schenck also said he still believes the prison - and
its $ 16 million in construction costs - is good for the community.

''Judging from the people we've met, I have no concerns,'' Schenck said. ''I
hope this is an isolated incident.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Also ran in SOUTH.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              282 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 7, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

'DOORS ARE SLAMMING SHUT' FOR ASYLUM SEEKERS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1716 words

DATELINE: INDIANTOWN


More Central American immigrants are working without documents or are using fake
work permits because of a federal policy reversal that denies work authorization
for political asylum applicants.

The change is making farmworker communities such as Indiantown less of a
sanctuary for Guatemalans and other immigrants. It also could shrink the
agricultural labor force if deportation sweeps are the next step.

Before the policy change took effect Jan. 4, immigrants who filled out an asylum
claim could qualify for a work permit. They also could rely on permit renewals
year after year because their cases were among a backlog of 70,000 at the Miami
Asylum Office.

''The people were using the system to get work permits,'' said Erich Cauller,
director of the Miami office, which covers Florida. ''It was a very generous
policy.''

Now, however, immigrants must wait until they're granted political asylum before
they can be issued work permits. If they've waited five months without a ruling
on their cases, they can apply for temporary work permits.

The asylum office also has accelerated political asylum hearings for new
applicants.

One result of the new policy is a 75 percent decline in political asylum
applications, Cauller said.

The changes have left hundreds of newly arrived Guatemalans and others without
work permits. Others who have lost their work authorization because their asylum
claims were rejected haven't left the area and are working illegally.

''Many, many people lose their political asylum cases, but they stay here, using
another name or getting other papers,'' said Andres Cruz, who operates a service
that helps Guatemalans with translations and filling out immigration documents.

Indiantown attorney Peter Upton said most Guatemalans who have immigrated the
past six months are working without permits.

''How they are surviving is a good question,'' he said. ''Either they are helped
by friends or family, or they're working illegally.''

Forged work authorization cards are sold for $ 150 each by vendors who make
regular stops at Indiantown, said Francisco Solis, 20, of Indiantown.

Solis, who has lived in the United States for three years and has a temporary
work permit, said newcomers who can't get work permits often work for less than
the $ 4.25-an-hour minimum wage.

''Some companies pay them $ 31 for an eight-hour day,'' he said.

One of the undocumented workers is Julio, who left Guatemala eight months ago.
He said finding work is a struggle.

''Sometimes you only earn enough money to pay for your lunch,'' said Julio, who
asked that his last name not be used. He said he left Guatemala because his
father was killed by rebels, and he felt his own life was in danger. Julio has
not filed for political asylum, saying he doubts his claim would be successful.

He may be right. Less than 8 percent of Guatemalans who apply for asylum receive
it.

''The doors are slamming shut,'' said Amada Orendain, managing attorney with the
American Friends Service Committee in Miami. ''I don't even think about
accepting an asylum application unless it's a really good case. It's just a
waste of time.''

Few return home

Although discouraged, few immigrants go back to their home country.

''They are now more underground than before,'' Orendain said. ''They are just
taking their chances basically.''

One immigrant driven underground is Hector, 22, who works as a housekeeper in a
Palm Beach mansion. He left his mountain village in Guatemala three years ago,
saying he was harassed by rebels and army soldiers to become a collaborator. He
said he feared for his life and moved to Guatemala City.

The asylum office rejected his claim earlier this year. Asylum claims are not
considered valid if the applicant can find a safe haven within his own country.
Hector's work permit has expired, but he says leaving is not an option.

''I'm going to continue fighting to stay,'' he said. ''What I'm worried about is
that my employers will find out I don't have a work permit, and I'll lose my
job.''

What Hector doesn't have to worry about is deportation - at least, not yet.

Only 16 Guatemalans were deported the past eight months by the Miami district
office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Of El Salvadorans,
only 11 were deported.

That could change.

Deportation stepped up

Border Patrol agents using a helicopter raided job sites in Georgia in June,
detaining 881 undocumented immigrants working at construction sites and
manufacturing plants.

The same month, immigration agents detained 51 undocumented immigrants at
aviation businesses near Miami International Airport. Violations included
illegal entry into the United States, visa expirations, unlawful employment and
possession of fraudulent documents.

Both raids were part of Operation SouthPAW, which the INS calls its
''Southeastern interior enforcement initiative.'' PAW stands for Protecting
American Workers.

INS spokesman Lemar Wooley declined to comment on plans for raids but said
deportations are projected to increase next year. The Miami Asylum Office is
denying or closing asylum claims at the rate of about 550 a month. Those
rejected can appeal their denials, and if that fails, request a suspension of
deportation.

The threat of deportations is bad news for farmers and nursery owners who rely
on immigrants as laborers.

''The idea of losing your labor force is certainly uncomfortable,'' said
nurseryman Steve Homrich, who says he can't find anyone else willing to work at
his nursery in suburban Boynton Beach.

''I've had only one United States citizen apply for this work in the past 10
years,'' Homrich said. ''After three days he said he didn't like it.''

The 10 immigrants working at Homrich's Nursery are ''frugal, honest and hard
working,'' he said. The crackdown by immigration authorities, he added, is an
outgrowth of the nation's anti-immigrant sentiments.

''That's the real gist of it,'' Homrich said. ''The general public doesn't want
immigrants coming here.''

ASYLUM ODDS

The rate of asylum approvals has not changed substantially in recent years, but
the number of cases filed has plummeted since immigration officials stopped
granting work permits to new applicants. The policy took effect Jan. 4 as a way
to control illegal entry and discourage unfounded asylum claims.

ASYLUM APPLICATIONS, MIAMI

Oct. 1993 to June 1994: 19,802

Oct. 1994 to June 1995: 13,242

ASYLUM APPLICANTS

(national activity October 1994-March 1995)

    Nationality     Cases        Asylum             Rate
                   Heard       Granted         of Approval
   Guatemalans     4,688          355               8%
   Salvadorans     2,666          103               4%
   Mexicans        1,816           31               2%
   Haitians        1,115          276              25%
   Nicaraguans       987          149              15%
   Peruvians         740          180              24%
   Cubans            233          129              55%
   Chinese           754          175              23%
   All
   nationalities  22,572        4,435              20% Source: Asylum Division,
INS

AFFECTED NATIONALITIES

How changes in political asylum are affecting South Florida immigrants:

GUATEMALANS:

The biggest change for Guatemalans is the Jan. 4 rule that affects new political
asylum applicants. Those who applied for asylum before Jan. 4 were given
temporary work permits, renewable each year. Those who apply after Jan. 4 cannot
get work permits unless immigration officials approve their asylum claims or
take five months or longer to decide their cases.

SALVADORANS:

An estimated 250,000 refugees from El Salvador (including some from Guatemala)
were given temporary amnesty because of a lawsuit settlement over the handling
of their asylum cases. The protection expired Jan. 1, and work permits will
expire Sept. 30. The estimated 200,000 who never filed an asylum claim must do
so by Jan. 31. Those who have filed for asylum must apply for new work permits
by Sept. 30. For instructions, call 1-800-755-0777.

NICARAGUANS:

The 11,000 Nicaraguans - most in South Florida - who have final orders of
deportation are being asked to leave the country. While officials say no mass
round-ups will occur, those Nicaraguans will no longer be eligible for automatic
extensions of their work permits. They can, however, file for suspension of
deportation if they've been in the country seven years, show good moral
character and cite hardship to leave the United States. Those who file for
suspension of deportation can secure a work permit valid through June.  For
information, call 1-800-898-7180.

HAITIANS:

Since the United States restored Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to
power last fall, the number of refugees fleeing Haiti has dropped. However,
asylum officers still consider Haiti a dangerous place. The rate of asylum
approvals for Haitians is likely to remain the same as long as United Nations
peacekeepers remain in Haiti. Haitians may find asylum harder to win if
stability continues through the inauguration early next year of an Aristide
successor.

CUBANS:

Cubans are subject to the same political asylum rules as other nationalities. If
caught on the high seas, they are repatriated. If detected within the United
States, they must win political asylum before getting a work permit. Cubans have
a huge advantage denied other nationalities. The Cuban Adjustment Act passed by
Congress in 1966 allows Cubans to apply for residency after one year in the
United States. If denied asylum and placed in deportation proceedings, Cubans
simply stay and apply for residency under the Adjustment Act.

WHERE TO CALL FOR HELP:

Guatemalan-Mayan Center, Lake Worth (407) 547-1007

Florida Rural Legal Services:

Lake Worth (407) 968-4427

Belle Glade (407) 996-5266

Fort Pierce (407) 466-4766

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Info box at end of text.  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2 C & B&W), LANNIS WATERS/Staff Photographer, 1. Guatemalan
farmworkers Julio (left) and Francisco rest outside their White Camp home in
Indiantown.  Francisco has a work permit but Julio does not., 2. Immigrants
seeking refuge in the U.S. are being forced underground to find work. The
effects will be felt locally., 3. (B&W) Andres Cruz, owner of Immigration &
Translation Services, helps clients fill out immigration documents and permit
applications.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              283 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 12, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION-LAW OFFENDER GETS TEACHING PERMIT IN SETTLEMENT

BYLINE: DON HORINE

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 199 words


Peter Tilton Zumwalt, who pleaded guilty to transporting illegal immigrants from
the Bahamas six years ago, will receive a Florida teaching certificate under
terms approved this week by the state's Education Practices Commission.

Under the settlement, Zumwalt, 47, a long-term substitute at Suncoast High
School, must accept a letter of reprimand, serve two years' probation and not
contest the Education Department's reasons for denying his application
initially.

Zumwalt who was placed on probation after his guilty plea, was hired by the
school district provided he earned the state teaching certificate.

A district spokeswoman said Assistant Superintendent Walter Pierce would review
the commission's action before any decision is made about whether Zumwalt will
teach this year.

The commission continued the cases of two other Palm Beach County teachers to
Sept. 21-22: Stella June Mortensen, 42, the head of the special education
department at Lantana Middle School who pleaded guilty to sending LSD to her
brother in 1993; and James T. Smith, 27, a former J.C. Mitchell Elementary
School teacher who was suspended in 1994 for taking $ 1,400 for home visits he
never made.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              284 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 17, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT GROUP CAN EASE LANGUAGE BARRIER

BYLINE: LINDA STURGILL

SECTION: LIVING, Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 298 words


Question: A Spanish speaking couple with four children just moved in next door
to me. They are having a difficult time getting orientated and I am not able to
help them too much as my Spanish is limited. Is there an agency that might help
them?

Answer: The Latin American Immigrant and Refugee Organization, Inc. provides
general information, orientation, advocacy, and referrals on matters such as
education, housing, immigration, employment, legal matters, finances, etc.

Translation and translators are available. Call 966-4515 Monday through Friday
for information.

Q: I really believe that I finally need some help. I think I have a problem with
my eating habits. And certain things that I eat make me crazy. I never really
noticed how foods affect my moods but my family has pointed out to me how I
behave sort of ''weird'' at times. Is there a group that can help me understand
what might be happening to me?

A: Food Addicts Anonymous is a 12-step recovery program made up of men and women
who are willing to recover from the disease of food addiction.

Sharing their experiences, strengths and hope with others allows for the
recovery from the disease one day at a time.

They are not affiliated with any diet or weight-loss program, treatment facility
or religious organization. Contact them at 967-3871 for information on meeting
days, times, and locations.

Where to Turn is provided by Center for Information and Crisis Services. It is
not intended to be an all-inclusive directory of community resources, and it is
recognized that in some given instances more than one agency provides assistance
for a given problem.

If you want to know more about where to turn for help with a particular need, or
know someone else who does, call CenterLine at 930-1234.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WHERE TO TURN

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              285 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    August 17, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT GROUP CAN EASE LANGUAGE BARRIER

BYLINE: LINDA STURGILL

SECTION: LIVING, Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 299 words


QUESTION: A Spanish speaking couple with four children just moved in next door
to me. They are having a difficult time getting orientated and I am not able to
help them too much as my Spanish is limited. Is there an agency that might help
them?

ANSWER: The Latin American Immigrant and Refugee Organization, Inc. provides
general information, orientation, advocacy, and referrals on matters such as
education, housing, immigration, employment, legal matters, finances, etc.

Translation and translators are available. Call 966-4515 Monday through Friday
for information.

Q: I really believe that I finally need some help. I think I have a problem with
my eating habits. And certain things that I eat make me crazy. I never really
noticed how foods affect my moods but my family has pointed out to me how I
behave sort of ''weird'' at times. Is there a group that can help me understand
what might be happening to me?

Q: Food Addicts Anonymous is a 12-step recovery program made up of men and women
who are willing to recover from the disease of food addiction.

Sharing their experiences, strengths and hope with others allows for the
recovery from the disease one day at a time.

They are not affiliated with any diet or weight-loss program, treatment facility
or religious organization. Contact them at 967-3871 for information on meeting
days, times, and locations.

Where to Turn is provided by Center for Information and Crisis Services. It is
not intended to be an all-inclusive directory of community resources, and it is
recognized that in some given instances more than one agency provides assistance
for a given problem.

If you want to know more about where to turn for help with a particular need, or
know someone else who does, call CenterLine at 930-1234.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WHERE TO TURN

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              286 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 7, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CIVIL RIGHTS PANEL SUBPOENAS ANTI-IMMIGRATION LEADERS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 541 words


Leaders of citizens groups opposing immigration have been subpoenaed to appear
before a U.S. Civil Rights Commission hearing in Miami next week and ordered to
bring documents relating to their organizations' activities.

Two of the leaders, JoAnn Peart of Delray Beach and Rob Ross of Boca Raton, are
protesting the subpoenas as an intrusion by the federal government into
political activities.

''They are targeting grass-roots, volunteer organizations to come before the
commission and justify our political views,'' said Ross.

''That's the definition of McCarthyism,'' he said, referring to the hearings led
by Sen. Joseph McCarthy in the early 1950s to root out Communist sympathizers in
government and the entertainment industry.

Peart, a housewife who co-founded Floridians for Immigration Control a year ago,
said an attorney for the commission threatened to have an investigator track her
down if she didn't volunteer her home address.

Peart, Ross and Enos Schera, an anti-immigration activist from Miami, were
subpoenaed by U.S. marshals who visited their homes Saturday. Peart said a
marshal on Friday copied license plate numbers of cars parked in her driveway.

''I've felt like I've been living in the land of the Gestapo,'' she said.

Mary Frances Berry, chairwoman of the commission, said she's puzzled by the
allegations of intimidation.

''Boy, if we came down and heard only from immigration advocates, I could see
them saying that,'' Berry said. ''We want to hear their side of it.''

The commission has subpoena powers and, as a practice, subpoenas all witnesses
to its hearings, Berry said. About 45 witnesses will appear Sept 14-15.

The hearings are part of a series around the country to look at rising racial
tensions, Berry said. Immigration is ''one of the most hotly contested issues in
the country'' and falls within the civil rights interests of the commission, she
said.

The commission has no enforcement powers but collects and studies information
relating to discrimination. It reports to the White House and Congress.

Peart and Ross said some commissioners may be looking for ways to blunt a
referendum movement in Florida that gained popularity this year after
California's successful Proposition 187 referendum. Proposition 187 would deny
public benefits to undocumented immigrants in California.

Ross' organization, FLA-187, is seeking signatures to put a similar proposition
on Florida's ballot in 1996.

''I think they are trying to squelch the immigration movement in Florida through
intimidation,'' Peart said. ''It's an attempt to scare people away.''

Peart said she has complained to U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, and
the American Civil Liberties Union. Ross said he's considering filing a lawsuit
against the commission but may not have enough time before the hearings next
week.

Foley said he received a response Wednesday from the commission apologizing for
any ''inconvenience'' it has caused Peart. He said the commission assured him
the procedures used were routine.

''It's a serious abuse of power, from the first read of it,'' said Foley, who
said he plans to inquire further. ''We may be investigating them before they
investigate other groups.''

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), JoAnn Peart (mug)

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              287 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 9, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

CUBAN HOLIDAY

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 592 words


 GETTING THERE
TELEPHONE TRAVEL AGENCIES in Nassau, Cancun or Canada to make reservation with
Havantur, the Cuban tourism agency. Typical cost for a two-night vacation is $
316, which includes round-trip airfare to Havana, two nights motel, visa fee and
a three-hour city tour. Does not include airfare to and from Nassau. Passport
required.

UPON ARRIVAL at Nassau International Airport, approach Cubana Airlines counter
and pay the $ 316 fee in cash. Flights are Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. The
60-minute flight is on a Russian-made jetliner.

CLEAR CUBAN immigration and customs at Jose Marti International Airport in
Havana. Luggage usually is not inspected unless passengers declare they're
bringing non-personal items into Cuba, such as gifts or packages for friends or
family members. Luggage limit: 44 pounds.

AIR-CONDITIONED buses with English-speaking guides drop tourists at hotels in
downtown Havana, a 30-minute ride from the airport. Guides warn tourists not to
exchange their dollars for Cuban pesos (which are not accepted by hotels, taxis
or restaurants) and that U.S.-issued credit cards can't be used in Cuba because
of the embargo.

   GETTING BACK
CLEAR CUBAN CUSTOMS and immigration at Jose Marti Airport and board Cubana
Airlines for the flight to Nassau. Clear Bahamas customs and immigration at
Nassau and walk to an adjacent terminal for boarding pass to the flight to
Florida. U.S. Immigration inspectors check passports but seldom inquire about
Cuba because Cuban officials don't stamp U.S. visitors' passports.

CUBA TRAVELERS can avoid the $ 16 Bahamas departure fee because they're
in-transit. But the in-transit stamp in the passport may prompt questions from
U.S. immigration and customs officials.

THE U.S. CUSTOMS inspection station at Nassau International Airport easily spots
the Cubana passengers from the United States and often asks if they had U.S.
permission to visit Cuba. Those without permission may have rum, cigars and
other Cuba souvenirs confiscated or have their passports copied, but none is
detained. Usually trasvelers are not challenged unless an inspection of their
luggage turns up souvenirs purchased in Cuba. The United States Treasuery
Department, which enforces the ban prohibiting Americans from spending money in
Cuba, has never prosecuted an American for traveling to Cuba as a tourist.

   THE POLICY
  No law prevents Americans from going to Cuba. But spending money in Cuba
without permission from the U.S. Treasury Department is a violation of the 1963
Trading with the Enemy Act.
   Enforcement, though sporadic, can be severe. Last month, U.S. Customs agents
arrested  a Key West charter boat captain and confiscated his 38-foot boat when
he returned from Havana with 2,700 high-quality Cuban cigars.
   Authorities say Richard Sperandio bought the cigars for $ 3,600 and hoped to
sell them for $ 28.000. Sperandio, 58, will be charged with smuggling,
conspiracy and possibly a violation of the trade embargo, which could mean $
250,000 in fines and 10 years in prison, said U.S. customs spokesman Mike
Sheehan.
   "The law is the law," a Treaury Department spokesman in Washington said. "If
Castro is getting the money, it's illegal."
   The only Americans who can spend money in Cuba without getting permits from
the Treasury )Department are U.S. officials on government business and
journalists.
   For information on permits, call the U.S. Treasury Department's Office at
(202) 622-2480.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: MAP (2 C), 1. Route to follow from West Palm Beach to Nassau to
Havana., 2. Location of Mariel and Marina Hemingway.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              288 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 13, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

CIVIL RIGHTS PANEL DROPS SUBPOENAS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 352 words


A federal commission has backed down from demanding records and forcing
testimony from citizens groups advocating tougher policies on undocumented
immigrants.

The U.S. Civil Rights Commission said it will not enforce subpoenas for the
leaders of three groups to appear before commission hearings in Miami.

''I'm very relieved,'' said JoAnn Peart of Delray Beach, a housewife and
co-founder of Floridians for Immigration Control. ''I told them from the very
beginning I didn't want to do it.''

Mary Frances Berry, chair of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, said in a
letter sent to Peart late Monday that her testimony was ''not crucial'' to the
commission's goal of examining racial and ethnic tensions in South Florida.

Similar letters were sent to Rob Ross of Boca Raton and Enos Schera of Miami.
Ross and Schera also head anti-immigration groups.

The hearings still will be Thursday and Friday. The commission expects to hear
from 40 to 45 people who were also subpoenaed.

Peart, Ross and U.S. Rep. Mark Foley had complained that the commission was
using subpoenas to intimidate unwilling citizens to appear before it. The
subpoenas asked the citizens to present computer printouts, writings, memos and
other records of their activities.

Berry said last week the commission always subpoenas those it wishes to testify
at hearings.

''It was a stupid idea, and I think they saw the error of their ways,'' said
Foley, R-West Palm Beach. He said the House judiciary subcommittee on
constitutional rights will hold a hearing Sept. 27 to investigate the
commission's subpoena power.

Subcommittee Chairman U.S. Rep. Charles Canady, R-Fla., informed the commission
Friday that the subpoenas appeared to threaten the right of free speech.

Ross, who heads FLA-187, a group seeking an amendment to the state constitution
to limit public assistance to undocumented immigrants, said the subpoena
demanding internal records was ''outrageous and un-American.''

On Friday, three of the eight commissioners raised questions about the subpoenas
at the commission's monthly meeting in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Did not run MSL.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), JoAnn Peart (mug)

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              289 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  September 20, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

PALM BEACH COUNTY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 148 words


The Palm Beach County Commission took the following action Tuesday:

ALCOHOL SALES: In unincorporated areas, commissioners agreed to let licensees
sell alcohol beginning at noon on Sundays instead of 2 p.m.

JAILED IMMIGRANTS: Commissioners will ask Gov. Lawton Chiles to seek help from
federal officials to pay for housing undocumented immigrants who have served
time at the county jail on misdemeanor charges.

ROADWAY LANDSCAPING: A $ 517,076 list of 15 landscape beautification projects
was endorsed for roads around the county, including parts of Australian Avenue
in West Palm Beach and Mangonia Park.

PALM TRAN MARKETING: The Palm Tran bus system's $ 1 million marketing plan for
1995-96 was endorsed. It calls for TV, radio and newspaper ads as well as
billboards and signs promoting the system's new routes and buses that will come
on line beginning in December.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              290 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   November 28, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

ENGLISH UNIFIES US

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 92 words


 The United States is a land of immigrants with different cultures, beliefs,
backgrounds and, of course, languages. If English were the official language,
communication would be easier. This does not mean that foreign residents should
have to relinquish their unique languages. Immigrants should be able to
communicate with other citizens with ease. For example, if you try a new
restaurant but no one at the restaurant speaks English, ordering food would be a
hassle. You probably would not be satisfied with your order.
   Danny Chow, 15

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STUDENTS SPEAK OUT

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              291 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 3, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

GLAD YOU ASKED

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. 1I

LENGTH: 270 words


Question: Can you use an expired passport to prove you are a citizen when
returning home from a Caribbean cruise?

M. Aldrich,

Lake Worth

Answer: Officials at the U.S. Immigration Department say you need proof of U.S.
citizenship, which can be a birth certificate with raised seal and photo
identification such as a driver license, or a current passport, or a
naturalization certificate.

You can't use an expired passport.

You'll probably need the same documents for Caribbean stops on your cruise. Ask
the cruise company what they require.  Most Caribbean countries accept a birth
certificate and driver license instead of a passport.

You'll need these documents even if you are returning from Puerto Rico or the
U.S. Virgin Islands. (You don't need them to enter those islands but you'll need
them on your return.)

You can renew your old passport by mail. Pick up a DSP-82 form at the nearest
post office that has a passport window. Ask your local post office for the one
nearest you. The post office at 3200 Summit Blvd. in West Palm Beach is the main
passport office for Palm Beach County. That office is open 9 a.m. 4 p.m., but
you can pick up the forms until 9 p.m. Call 697-2028.

Mail your old passport, which must have been issued within the past 12 years and
after your 18th birthday, the DSP-82 renewal form, two identical 2-by-2 inch
photographs, and a check or money order for $ 55 to:

Passport Lockbox, P.O. Box 371971, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15250-7971.

- CHERYL BLACKERBY

Send questions to Glad You Asked, Travel, The Palm Beach Post, P.O. Box 24700,
West Palm Beach, Fla. 33416-4700.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WAY TO GO

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              292 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    December 22, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

TREAT MIGRANTS FAIRLY, BISHOPS SAY

SECTION: RELIGION, Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 80 words


Catholic Bishops in Florida recently warned against making undocumented migrants
scapegoats in political and economic debate. A statement issued recently by the
seven bishops calls for moral and ethical norms to be used in developing
immigration policies. The statement calls California's Proposition 187 and the
proposed Save Our State initiative in Florida ''punitive mechanisms . . . that
play upon the fears and frustrations of our citizens.''

- Compiled by CARL E. HARDY

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
CHURCH AND SYNAGOGUE NEWS

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              293 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

             December 30, 1995, Saturday, MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

AGENTS STOP TRUCK OF ILLEGAL MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JILL TAYLOR and MARY O'NEILL

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A rental truck carrying 33 Mexican nationals hoping for jobs and a new life in
Palm Beach County was stopped Friday morning by U.S. Border Patrol agents on
Interstate 95.

The Mexicans, who were from the state of Chiapas, were stopped near the
Martin/St. Lucie County line as they headed south about 11 a.m.

Border Patrol Capt. Arthur Bullock said the driver of the Hertz Penske truck,
Mauro Santizo, told the Mexicans he could help them find jobs working in
agriculture in Palm Beach County.

Santizo, 23, has lived in West Palm Beach since 1992, officials said.

The agents kept the Mexicans in the truck and drove them to West Palm Beach for
processing.

They were scheduled to leave for Laredo, Texas, on a bus Friday evening. They
eventually will be deported to Mexico, Bullock said.

The 29 men, three women and one 4-year-old child in the truck were all in good
health, he said.

Bullock said the practice of transporting undocumented immigrants in rental
trucks is not new.

It is designed to avoid heavily patrolled border states.

''It's worse some times of the year than others,'' Bullock said. ''It depends on
the availability of jobs.''

Bullock said this group entered the country in Arizona on Christmas and headed
toward Florida the following day. Officials declined to specify how they knew
the group was being transported in the truck, saying only they had received
''intelligence'' about the move.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              294 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   January 25, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

POLICE BLOTTER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 319 words


LAKE WORTH

Palm Beach County sheriff's deputies searched an area near Boutwell Road on
Wednesday morning for a burglar who may have inhaled Vicane, a deadly gas used
to exterminate termites. Deputies responded to a mobile home at 421 Date Palm
Drive when notified by employees of Terminix that a break-in had taken place
overnight.


U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested nine undocumented immigrants at a middle
school construction site Tuesday. Based on a tip, the Border Patrol investigated
the site one block south of Pinehurst Drive and Forest Hill Boulevard next to
Okeeheelee Park, said Kevin Douglas, a senior Border Patrol agent. The
immigrants, seven of whom were employed by Walker Design and Construction of
Boca Raton, were working on the steel roof of the school, said the firm's owner,
Lee Walker. None of the nine natives of Central America and the Caribbean had
work authorization from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Douglas
said. Walker said his employees had presented work papers to the company.

LAKE WORTH

Paulette Cone called police and fire-rescue officers to her home at 927 N. O St.
at 5:05 a.m. Wednesday. Dispatchers called it a ''police service'' call, meaning
no criminal activity took place, said Lt. Mel Mosier, public information officer
for the police department. Cone had some sort of medical complaint, he said, and
ended up going to JFK Medical Center. JFK's communication manager, Kristen
Rennich, said Cone came to the hospital and two hours later transferred to the
South County Mental Health Center. Cone and her husband, Timothy, were cleared
in May of murder charges in the death of their 2-year-old adopted daughter. Last
week, a neighbor called the police to report fighting inside the home, which
police had visited numerous times before for domestic disturbances. Police then
charged Timothy Cone with simple assault on his wife.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              295 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 4, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

ANOTHER INCENTIVE TO SNEAK INTO U.S.

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 85 words


The Siamese twins who were separated (''Surviving Siamese twin recovering'')
sounded like a great humanitarian project until I learned that the twins'
parents are illegal Mexican immigrants who had come across our border for help.

The fees these doctors would charge U.S. citizens would be outrageous, and I
wonder whether a set of American parents would get help if they couldn't pay.
Charity such as this will only invite more foreign citizens to try to get here.

Arline Pollack

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              296 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 6, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

YOUR HEALTH

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 283 words


A $ 662,678 federal grant will help pay for medical care for refugees and people
who have fled Cuba or Haiti, according to the Palm Beach County Health Care
District. The district already provides coverage for immigrants who are county
residents and meet income requirements. But as of Feb. 1, the district can draw
on grant money to pay for such care if the immigrants are refugees or immigrants
from Cuba or Haiti who arrived in the last five years, have the required
immigration papers, fall within federal poverty guidelines and don't qualify for
other health insurance. District officials expect the one-year grant will pay
for medical services for at least 25 people - most of them Cuban or Haitian -
each month. For more information, call the district at 659-1270 or (800)
273-9977.

A North Palm Beach orthopedic surgeon will be on probation for two years, pay a
$ 3,000 fine and take 25 hours of classes under an agreement approved Saturday
by the Florida Board of Medicine. Dr. William Gogan was disciplined after state
investigators concluded he made four mistakes with a 73-year-old patient,
identified in state records only as W.K. whose left knee Gogan replaced in 1992.
A state complaint said W.K. had extreme pain and difficulty moving after surgery
and that Gogan had improperly placed the knee prosthesis components. Gogan
operated twice more, but W.K.'s knee got worse and W.K. went to another doctor
who replaced the knee again, the complaint said. Roy Watson, Gogan's attorney,
said Gogan acknowledged the size of the kneecap component wasn't right but
otherwise denied the allegations. A civil lawsuit on the matter has been settled
out of court, Watson said.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              297 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 18, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

BAHAMAS SAYS THERE'S NO ROOM FOR HAITIANS

BYLINE: BILL DOUTHAT

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1555 words

DATELINE: MARSH HARBOUR, BAHAMAS


The Bahamian government forced out more than 10,000 Haitians from refugee
settlements the past year, using armed soldiers to round them up and chartered
airliners to send them home.

The operation signaled an abrupt shift in Bahamian immigration policy, which for
years welcomed the refugees as a supply of low-wage citrus pickers and domestic
workers.

But the growing refugee stream also stirred panic. Some Bahamians saw Haitians
becoming the dominant population on some islands, filling public health clinics
and schools and living as squatters on public land.

''It was unbearable,'' said Abacos Island Commissioner Everett Hart, the chief
government officer in Marsh Harbour.

Haitians had climbed to more than 40 percent of the population in that town
before the government initiated its repatriation policy, Hart said.

''When your back is against the wall, brother, you have to do something about
it,'' he said.

In the past year, the Bahamas escorted 5,200 Haitians to chartered airliners and
ships, said Joseph Etienne, Haiti's ambassador to the Bahamas. An equal number
targeted for roundups left voluntarily.

In the United States, home to an estimated 98,000 Haitians without legal status,
191 were deported during 1995, according to the the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The Bahamas no longer grants political asylum to Haitians. Nor is it constrained
by the kind of appeals process that allows Haitians in the United States to stay
for years.

''Unlike your situation, they don't present their case to an immigration
judge,'' said Carlton Wright, deputy permanent secretary of the Bahamas Ministry
of Public Safety and Immigration. ''If you come into our country illegally,
you've broken the law, and you are removed.''

The United States can afford to be lenient because it is large enough to absorb
great numbers of immigrants, said Robert Sweeting, a Marsh Harbour marina owner
and member of the Bahamian Parliament.

Haitian refugees peaked at 30,000 to 40,000 in 1994, Sweeting said, a large
presence in the 250,000-population nation of islands.

''That was far, far too many immigrants,'' he said.

Half of town's refugees left

About half of the 4,000 Haitians living in Marsh Harbour a year ago have gone,
Sweeting said.

The departures are evident in the town's churches, schools and neighborhoods. At
Pigeon Peas and the Mud, adjoining squatter settlements at the edge of town, the
shed where men used to play dominoes has been torn down, and many of the plywood
shanties are unoccupied.

A preacher leads hymns in Creole in a low-ceilinged chapel in the Mud, waving
his arms before nine people who barely make a choir in the seats arranged for 75
worshipers.

Only a dozen or so of the 126 children in the St. Francis de Sales Catholic
primary school are Haitian, compared with more than 100 a year ago, a school
official said.

The Rev. Stan Kolaska, the Catholic priest in Marsh Harbour, said 200 of his
parishioners have gone back to Haiti.

Kolaska was caught in the middle of the repatriation raids. While he encouraged
the refugees to return to Haiti, he gave them sanctuary in the woods behind the
church rectory if they asked.

To help the refugees avoid capture, the American-born priest said he took them
food and peppered the perimeter of the woods with chopped onions to confuse the
tracking dogs brought in by the police.

Kolaska said the repatriation was done in a humane, dignified fashion by keeping
families together and trying to separate those eligible to apply for Bahamian
residency.

The Bahamian government contributed $ 100 to the Haitian Red Cross for each
adult returned to Haiti. The money was used to help the refugees resettle,
Wright said.

The Bahamas spent $ 750,000 to finance the repatriation operation, which was
conducted by Defense Force soldiers, police and immigration officers. With
manpower costs included, the operation probably cost $ 2 million to $ 3 million,
Wright said.

Refugees a source of resentment

In 1993, 10 percent to 15 percent of the Bahamas' national budget was spent on
public services to the refugees, officials say.

''Bahamians went to hospitals to have their babies and found out there weren't
any beds,'' said Wright. ''They were all filled by Haitian women. There was
resentment.''

Just days after American troops took control in Haiti on Sept. 19, 1994,
Bahamian Foreign Affairs Minister Orville Turnquest said Haitians who were
illegally in the Bahamas must leave.

To prepare undocumented Haitians for the mass roundups, the government held town
hall meetings to explain the repatriation program. In some cases it announced
the scheduled departure times of repatriation flights.

No-shows were tracked down by police and escorted to the airport by force.

''Some of that needed to be done, but it was as a last resort,'' Wright said.

The sweeter side of the repatriation treaty with Haiti was amnesty for Haitians
who had lived in the Bahamas for at least 10 years. They were eligible to apply
for work permits. Those with 20 years could apply for citizenship.

Today, those remaining, who call themselves Haitian-Bahamians, are finding some
resentment among Bahamians who accepted them as farm workers but don't like the
idea of the former refugees competing for better-paying jobs such as
construction workers and skilled tradesmen.

'They were too accustomed to Pepsi'

A preacher, the Rev. Robin Weatherford of the Creole Gospel Church, has a
harsher view of repatriation.

''They pulled the plug too much,'' said Weatherford, a white Bahamian who speaks
Creole.

Weatherford said he has received letters telling about some Bahamian-born
Haitian children who died in Haiti from malnutrition after repatriation.

''We just threw them right into the river,'' he said. ''They couldn't adjust to
that type of living. They were too accustomed to Pepsi and sodas.''

Life was never easy for the Haitians in the Bahamas, Weatherford said. Over the
years, Bahamians treated them as slaves and the lowest class. A few years ago,
he said, Marsh Harbour had segregated graveyards for Bahamian whites, Bahamian
blacks and for Haitians.

''I feel very Haitian,'' said Savilia Laurent, a Pigeon Peas resident who was
born in the Bahamas 28 years ago. ''Just look around. You see the way I'm
living?''

Laurent lives in a powder blue plywood shack in the squatter settlement with her
two children and her Haitian-born parents. She works as a $ 250-a-week filing
clerk in a clinic and says the rent-free settlement is the only place she can
afford.

The cost of living in Marsh Harbour, a yachtsman's paradise situated in the
center of the Abacos islands, is steep. Bread at Sawyer's Market at the entrance
road to Pigeon Peas costs $ 2.40 a loaf. Gasoline is $ 2.80 a gallon. A
quarter-chicken dinner in a downtown restaurant costs $ 12.

Most Haitians earn about $ 3 an hour, or $ 2.80 if they live on the citrus farms
north of Marsh Harbour, Laurent said. Bahamians are reluctant to hire
Haitian-Bahamians for jobs in banks, hotels or offices because white-collar jobs
are reserved for Bahamians, she added.

Leaving the Bahamas for Haiti is not the answer, she said.

''I've never been there, and I don't want to go there.''

Some Bahamians say the Haitian-Bahamians are not doing enough to blend into the
conservative, English-speaking islands.

''They are complicating the society,'' said Kathleen Ralph, publisher of a
monthly newspaper in Marsh Harbour. ''In America, they just blend in.''

At public schools, assimilation is not only encouraged, it's the law. Children
aren't allowed to enroll unless they speak English. They also must prove their
parents are in the country legally.

Hart, the island commissioner, said most island residents are pleased with
repatriation and happy the flow of immigrations from the south has stopped.

Most of all, the government is happy that most of the remaining Haitians are
working, paying taxes and using less of the free public services.

''A number of them have integrated into the Bahamian society and have become
self-supporting,'' he said. ''They see themselves as Bahamians now. They have
nowhere else to go.''

RESPONSES TO HAITIAN REFUGEES

THE BAHAMAS

The Bahamian government signed a treaty with Haiti last year to repatriate 800
refugees a month. The agreement expired Dec. 31, but small groups were still
being sent back as recently as a week ago.

Under the agreement, an estimated 5,200 Haitians were forcibly returned in 1995,
and an equal number left voluntarily. Some of the children returned to Haiti
were born in the Bahamas.

Children born to foreigners are not eligible for Bahamian citizenship until
they're 18 years old. The Bahamian government no longer grants political asylum
to Haitians.

THE UNITED STATES

The United States deported 191 Haitians during 1995. Haitians who fled their
country after the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1991 still can
qualify for political asylum in the United States. Asylum will continue to be
granted on a case-by-case basis until Haiti regains political stability, said an
official of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization service.

Children born to foreigners in the United States are granted immediate
citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1 C & 2 B&W) & MAP (B&W), 1. (C) RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff
Photographer, Savilia Laurent was born in the Bahamas but 'feels Haitian.' She
lives in a plywood shack in the Pigeon Peas squatter area with her two children
and her Haitian-born parents., 2.(B&W) RICHARD GRAULICH/Staff Photographer,
Haitian repatriation has hurt attendance at New Mission Baptist Church in the
Pigeon Peas community in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas., 3. (B&W) RICHARD
GRAULICH/Staff Photographer, With minimal running water, many Haitian women do
their laundry in large bowls outside their homes in the Haitian community known
as Pigeon Peas., 4. (B&W) STAFF GRAPHIC, Marsh Harbour

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              298 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  February 21, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA LEADS U.S. IN LURING IMMIGRANTS FROM OTHER STATES

BYLINE: LARRY LIPMAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Highly educated immigrants tend to follow jobs wherever they are available,
while immigrants with less education and language skills tend to move to states
that already have large numbers of similar immigrants, according to a report
released Tuesday.

From 1985 to 1990, Florida and California had the highest net increase of
immigrants resettling from one state to another, while New York and Texas had
the largest net loss of immigrants because of internal migration, the study
showed.

During that period, Florida had a net gain of 127,180 foreign-born migrants from
other states, followed by California with about 61,000. New York had a net loss
of nearly 130,000 while Texas had a net loss of 42,490.

The study by June Marie Nogle, a research demographer at the University of
Florida's Bureau of Economic and Business Research, was released by the Center
for Immigration Studies, an independent, nonprofit research organization that
does not endorse or oppose legislation before Congress.

The study found that the concentration of immigrants in the top four states has
shifted and increased over the past quarter-century and that trend is likely to
accelerate.

In 1970, California, New York, New Jersey and Illinois had 53 percent of the
nation's foreign-born residents. In 1994, California, New York, Florida and
Texas had 64 percent of the immigrants.

Nogle's conclusion that skilled workers are less likely to pick a state with a
large concentration of immigrants could give a boost to several immigration
bills in Congress, each of which would allot a higher percentage of slots to
well-educated immigrants than the current law, which allocates 36 percent to
employment-based categories, said Mark Krikorian, the center's executive
director.

Using data from the 1990 Census, Nogle found that 3.5 million foreign-born
people immigrated to the United States during that period while another 1.4
million foreign-born residents moved from one state to another.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              299 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    March 23, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

FARM WORKERS WIN ONE

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 478 words


If a U.S. worker is displaced by an immigrant, it doesn't matter very much
whether that immigrant is in the country legally.

U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, in Greenacres last week for a meeting
with constituents, reiterated his concern that illegal immigrants are taking
jobs from legal residents. Among his ideas is a toll-free number so employers
can check the validity of a worker's Social Security number.

Then why, asked farm workers' lawyer Greg Schell, was Rep. Foley supporting
legislation to allow farmers to hire foreign workers without establishing need,
as required under the H-2A labor program? Won't that allow legal immigrants to
drive down wages and take jobs away from U.S. residents, just as illegals
supposedly are doing?

Rep. Foley said he was responding to complaints from farmers that the H-2A
program is unwieldy. Under that system, farmers must first get Labor Department
certification that domestic workers are not available. The Labor Department
supposedly monitors prevailing wages to be sure the immigrants are not driving
down the pay of U.S. residents. The farmer must provide housing and
transportation.

Sugar growers have stopped using H-2A cane-cutters. Vegetable growers claim that
the program is unworkable. ''It's never worked,'' says Walter Kates of the
Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association. ''It's a bureaucratic nightmare, and the
costs are too high.''

But the alleged ''reforms'' would have allowed farmers to import workers merely
by saying they can't find domestic workers. Rep. Foley says farmers have told
him it is hard to get domestic workers, but Mr. Schell insists, ''There are two
to three . . . for every job.'' It's hard to believe that, with 1 million
immigrants, most of them farm workers, legalized under a 1986 amnesty program,
there still would be a labor shortage. The Labor Department estimates that at
any moment, 190,000 do-mestic farm workers are unemployed.

Another ''reform'' would have made the prevailing farm wage whatever the farmer
says it is, rather than what the Labor Department says it is under H-2A. As many
as 250,000 workers a year could have been brought in, more than 10 times the
19,000 workers admitted during the past year under H-2A.

Rep. Foley this week said 250,000 was too high a limit and that he preferred a
limit nearer 19,000. On Thursday, he voted against an amendment to the
immigration-reform bill that would have set up the 250,000-worker program. That
amendment failed, as did another one to make changes in H-2A, which means there
will be no changes unless the Senate makes them and the House goes along in
conference.

If H-2A can be simplified without compromising standards, fine. If not, farmers
ought to be told to live with it. Maybe if the farmers tried paying workers a
little more, they wouldn't have to look so far for workers.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              300 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 26, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

THE HOUSE PLAYS HOOKY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 504 words


T he U.S. House stifled itself during the Republican presidential primaries,
lest members remind everyone of why Speaker Newt Gingrich's poll rating is lower
than the soles of a lobbyist's Guccis. But with the nomination set, the House
went right back to turning barroom chatter into law.

Specifically, the House produced an immigration bill, one of the worst ideas
enacted in a week that also saw a payoff to the National Rifle Association: the
repeal of the ban on assault weapons. A man in Scotland - where all guns must be
licensed - was able to get four guns, or enough to kill 16 kindergarten students
and their teacher. We don't have licensing, but the House still feels it's too
hard for Americans to get guns.

Emotional, angry Americans demand easy guns. The House aims to please emotional,
angry people. That is why the immigration bill would allow states to lock
illegal immigrant children out of school. Punishing kids to get at their parents
was one idea California voters approved in 1994. The California law is tied up
in courts, and its school-ban section looks dead because the Supreme Court
ruled, in a 1982 case from Texas, that children of illegals are entitled to
public education.

A moment's thought - more than the House gave - shows why the ban is a bad idea.
Kids not in school will be someplace else, probably with no adults to keep them
out of trouble. The government will be telling legal immigrants their children
must be in school, and illegals that their children can't be. The kids to be
hurt by that are here only because of their parents' actions.

The parents shouldn't be here. The power and the duty to keep them out belong to
the federal government, not the states. That's why, if the federal government
fails to do its job - as it consistently has of late - Washington should repay
states for their costs, such as for educating the illegals' children.

But telling the states to try, ineffectively, to keep out illegal parents by
punishing their children is ducking the feds' responsibility. Reps Mark Foley,
R-West Palm Beach, and Clay Shaw, R-Fort Lauderdale, voted for the ban; Rep.
Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, voted against. Rep. Harry Johnston, D-West Palm
Beach, didn't vote.

House members put some beef for enforcement in their final bill - more Border
Patrol agents and tougher penalties for violations. But there's no money in the
bill for any of that. The money will have to come in budget laws, where the
House is striving to spend less, not more. Anything that will make it harder for
employers to hire illegals (national identity cards) was left out of the law or
made voluntary (a system to let employers check an employee with immigration
authorities).

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which supports cuts in both
legal and illegal immigration, opposes the bill for what it sees as flaws in the
less-debated sections. ''Congress is willing,'' FAIR complained, ''to do
everything but what will work.'' Even keep children out of school.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              301 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 29, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

INS: HOLD SUSPECTED GEM THIEF

BYLINE: TIM PALLESEN

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 217 words


Immigration agents caught up with Fernando Alfaro Thursday, 10 years after the
suspected jewel thief should have been arrested for violating his parole as a
Mariel refugee.

Alfaro, already in the Palm Beach County Jail on misdemeanor prowling charges,
now faces six additional months in a federal detention center. Immigration
agents filed an order that keeps Alfaro in custody if a local judge releases him
on the misdemeanor charge, a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
spokesman said.

Alfaro is being held without bail on the prowling charges until a hearing next
week.

The federal order filed Thursday claims Alfaro, 39, violated his parole when he
was convicted in 1986 of drug and theft charges in Broward County. Bill West,
head INS investigator in Miami for organized crime, said agents learned of the
1986 conviction after reading news accounts of Alfaro's prowling arrest.

Prosecutors suspect Alfaro in a series of jewel and cash heists that netted
about $ 10 million last year. Because of the INS action, Alfaro now will be
transferred to a detention facility in Oakdale, La., if he's released, West
said.

Gary Carmichael, of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, said the INS
order will let prosecutors continue their investigation into the jewel thefts.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Fernando Alfaro (mug)

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              302 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     March 29, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

PANEL OKS CHANGES TO LEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: CHRISTI HARLAN

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate Judiciary Committee Thursday approved a package of changes to rules
for legally immigrating to the United States, including a slight reduction in
the numbers of family members who can join immigrants already here.

The package is scheduled to be considered by the full Senate in mid-April, and
depending on what happens then, could become the only vehicle for Congress to
make changes in legal immigration this year.

Legal immigration has proved resistant to most strains of congressional reform,
stymied by pro-immigration groups that oppose any limits on the reunion of
immigrants' families and blocked by business groups whose members want to ensure
their access to the pool of foreign workers.

The difficulties were summed up Thursday by the lead immigration reformer in the
Senate, Alan Simpson: ''It is complex, confounding and emotional, filled with
guilt, fear and racism.''

Just a week ago, reformers in the House, led by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
failed in their effort to rewrite the rules for legal immigration. The rewrite,
included in a broad bill that also tightened sanctions for illegal immigration,
was stripped out by House members who asked for more time to study the more
volatile issue of legal immigration.

In the Senate, Simpson, R-Wyo., had also combined legaland illegal-immigration
proposals in one bill but saw them split two weeks ago in the Senate Judiciary
Committee. The committee approved a bill addressing illegal immigration last
week, and it will be sent to the full Senate next month with the separate
legal-immigration measure.

Smith said he will not make another attempt to tackle legal immigration this
year, meaning the Senate version of reform could be the next one the House sees
- if the full Senate passes anything at all next month.

''When you go to the floor in the Senate, who knows,'' said Smith's spokesman,
Allen Kay. ''Smith is following it, but he's not making any predictions.''

Among other things, the Senate's legal-immigration bill would:

Cut the number of visas for family members of already-admitted legal immigrants
and naturalized citizens from the current level of 480,000 to 425,000 per year.
The fewest visas would be available for brothers and sisters of naturalized
citizens.

Accelerate the admission process for spouses and minor children of permanent
legal residents to eliminate a backlog of 1.1 million people. The bill would
allow at least 75,000 of those immediate family members to attain legal status
in the United States over the next five years.

Apply slightly tougher standards for employers who hire temporary foreign
workers for specialty jobs in the high-tech industry and elsewhere. Employers
could not hire foreign workers to replace U.S. workers who had been laid off
within the last six months unless the foreign workers received the full salary
of the workers they replaced. Employers who violate the law could be subject to
fines of $ 5,000 per incident.

Require the U.S. Justice Department to study mail-order brides to determine how
many are abused and how many are prostitutes. The sponsor of the provision, Sen.
Herbert Kohl, D-Wis., estimated that 2,000 to 3,500 U.S. men find wives in
mail-order bride catalogs each year. Kohl distributed a photocopy of a catalog
to reporters.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              303 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     April 14, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

CALIF. BEATINGS PROVOKE OUTCRY FROM MEXICO

BYLINE: NANCY NUSSER

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


The beating of two Mexican immigrants by California police has provoked an
outcry over what Mexican officials and U.S. human rights groups describe as
frequent physical, sexual and verbal abuse of migrants.

Since the incident this month on a California highway, Mexican media, supplied
by recently released figures from the Mexican government, have been documenting
scores of alleged human rights violations by U.S. border security forces.

U.S. human rights monitors have dug out reports to support similar claims.

U.S. officials reply, with barely concealed irritation, that cases like the
California beating are rare and decreasing.

''I get angry (at the allegations), because abuse is isolated,'' said Virginia
Kice, a California-based spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service. ''We've really made tremendous strides. I'd like to see some
recognition that we've made progress.''

Even so, the controversy has sparked heated emotions among Mexicans, who sense
that weariness with illegal immigration has produced anti-Mexican sentiment in
the United States.

''They (U.S. politicians) have created a xenophobia,'' said a top official in
the Mexican human rights commission, a government body. The official spoke on
condition of anonymity. ''They (U.S. border forces) are beating people because
they're angry, and they're angry because of the campaign against immigration.''

The INS says that in 1995 only 65 complaints of abuse were referred to its civil
rights division, down from 196 in 1994. But human rights officials say that
number almost certainly doesn't reflect the real total since illegal immigrants
are reluctant to report cases of abuse to U.S. authorities.

In a recent report, Mexico's human rights commission said that in three months
in 1994 on the California border, 863 Mexican illegal immigrants complained of
abuse, including 67 cases of beatings or rough handling and two cases of rape or
sexual abuse. Most of the complaints involved ''abuse of authority,'' which can
be incidents as minor as yelling at immigrants or putting on handcuffs too
tightly.

In the April 1 incident, an immigrant couple, among 19 Mexicans being smuggled
into California in a pickup truck, was clubbed by two deputies from the
Riverside County Sheriff's Department. The beating was captured on videotape and
broadcast across Mexico and the United States.

Mexico fired off a harshly worded protest calling for action to ''eradicate
discriminatory attitudes.''

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              304 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  April 26, 1996, Friday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

ENVY MAY HAVE LED TO POLISH IMMIGRANT SLAYING IN BOCA

BYLINE: MARY LOU PICKEL

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 678 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


 Envy over a roommate's success in adapting to life in the United States might
have fueled a fatal fight between two Polish immigrants last week, police said
Thursday.
   "It appears there was a lot of tension between the two of them," Boca Raton
police spokeswoman Lori Croy said of Pawel Matlewski, 28, and Andrzej Iwanow,
27, who came to the U.S. from the same small town in Poland.
 Iwanow "was more successful at making a life for himself here," Croy said.
Matlewski is being held in the county jail with no bail.
   Police charged him with first-degree murder after they found Iwanow's body
stuffed in the utility closet of the apartment the two shared with an older man.
Iwanow had been shot twice. Matlewski says it was self-defense.
   The two men worked as housekeepers at the Boca Raton Resort & Club but
Matlewski was fired a few months ago, said the owner of the cleaning service
that contracts with the resort.
   Neither man was working legally, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said Thursday.
   Iwanow and Matlewski were part of a network of Eastern European immigrants
who live in the Boca Manor Apartments and other locations. Most find jobs at
hotels and restaurants or work as self-employed housekeepers and baby sitters.
   In the past 10 years about 15,000 Poles have immigrated to the greater Miami
and Tampa Bay areas, Consul General of Poland Greg Dlugi  said Thursday from
Washington.
   Some are fleeing the 14.5 percent unemployment rate in their homeland. Others
are simply satisfying their desire to see the world after the fall of the
Communist regime in 1989 and the loosening of travel restrictions, Dlugi said.
   In the past few years about 13 Polish and Slovakian immigrants have settled
into the modest three-story Boca Manor building at 2500 N. Federal Highway.
   While Matlewski and Iwanow worked at the resort, they and 15 other Eastern
Europeans were technically employed by Pompano-based Boca's Best Cleaning
Service Inc. The hotel uses contractors to fill positions such as housekeeping
and window washing, a Boca Raton Resort & Club spokesman said.
   The contractor is responsible for being sure that working papers are in
order, the spokesman said.
   Before hiring foreign workers, businesses are required to get permission from
the Florida Department of Labor, which must verify that hiring immigrants will
not adversely affect American workers, Florida Department of Labor employment
training specialist Gwendolyn Harris said.
   The state has no record that Boca's Best ever applied for such permission,
Harris said.
   "You'd have to prove that there's a need for people with this type of skill
and Americans could not do it," a Florida Department of Labor consultant said.
   Many resort areas, such as Disney World, have successfully shown they need
foreign laborers to do menial jobs, Harris said.
   Halina Sosnowka, owner of Boca's Best Cleaning Service, said her workers are
independent sub-contractors and are responsible for verifying their own working
papers.
   Iwanow's death has focused an uncomfortable spotlight on the Polish
immigrants at the Boca Manor apartment building.
   "It just so happens that this pair ruined it for everyone," apartment owner
Al Di Gioia said. "(The immigrants) feel like they're outcasts, like it's
reflecting poorly on them."
   Some immigrants are concerned about their immigration status and are looking
to move out of Boca Manor, a Polish resident said. Others don't wear their hotel
uniforms to work for fear they'll be spotted on the street, she said.
   Meanwhile, Iwanow's elderly parents are having a hard time coming up with the
money to bring their son's body back to his home town of Elblag in northern
Poland. The Polish Consulate is verifying whether Iwanow left money in a bank
account that could be used to defray the cost of cremation or transport home,
Dlugi said.
   "They are rather depressed," Dlugi said. "He was their only son."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              305 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    April 27, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

ADVOCATES: ADD IMMIGRANTS TO MAGNETS

BYLINE: MARY WAREJCKA

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 326 words


Too few immigrant students who are still learning English are making it into the
Palm Beach County School District's magnet programs, according to a letter from
Florida Rural Legal Services released Friday.

This school year, about 2 percent of the students in magnet programs speak
limited English, though such students make up about 14 percent of the district's
overall enrollment, according to the state Department of Education.

The county school district must provide limited-English-speaking students with
instruction that is ''equal and comparable'' to other students, according to an
agreement that the state signed in 1990 to avoid a lawsuit by the League of
United Latin American Citizens.

Anna Meehan, coordinator of the school district's international studies and
multicultural awareness office, wouldn't comment on the letter.

She said that Superintendent Joan Kowal, to whom the letter was addressed, has
approved a June meeting with Rural Legal Services to work out any concerns.

The letter, signed by Legal Services staff lawyer Lisa Carmona and a lawyer for
Public Advocates Inc., also listed four other areas in which the group said the
district isn't providing adequate services for limited-English students:

Not enough Guatemalanand Mayan-speaking aides and interpreters are available for
a growing number of students.

Some schools are using their interpreters as instructional aides, which may keep
them from helping the students who have limited English skills.

The Parent Leadership Council, which consists of parents of limited-English
students and helps monitor the program, has not been well established.

Communication is poor between the schools and parents, leaving parents with the
impression that their students' chances in college will be hurt by participation
in the school's programs to teach English to students.

Neither Carmona nor the other lawyer, Stefan Rosenzweig, could be reached
Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              306 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 2, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

TIGHTENING IMMIGRATION ISN'T BIGOTRY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 151 words


I must respond to the letter ''Foley shows only bigotry in ideas on
immigration.'' As I've said before, there is a right way and a wrong way to come
into this country. I have no quarrel with those who wish to move to this nation
legally - provided they do so with the intention of working hard, learning our
language and becoming a productive member of our society.

Unfortunately, too many immigrants arrive illegally, don't secure a job, expect
to be provided with government benefits and become a burden on hard-pressed
taxpayers.

It is not too much to ask those who come here to obey our laws and take
responsibility for their actions. Those who characterize these basic
expectations as ''bigoted'' clearly have a different sense of what this country
stands for than the vast majority of people I represent.

U.S. Rep. Mark Foley

Republican, 16th Congressional District

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), Mark Foley (mug)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              307 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 7, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

FOLEY FAR FROM A BIGOT ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 173 words


In the letter ''Foley shows only bigotry in ideas on immigration,'' the writer
unfairly accuses U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, of being a bigot.

The writer's accusation is based on Rep. Foley's opposition to illegal
immigrants entering this country. If this is what makes you a bigot, then
President Clinton, Sen. Bob Dole and 80 to 90 percent of the American people
would be bigots. Most people do not oppose legal immigration as long as its
administrated fairly and in accordance with our laws.

The writer further states that her grandmother, who emigrated from Poland, never
learned to read or write. Whose fault is that? My parents came to this country
legally, also from Poland, and became citizens. I assume the writer's
grandmother also came to this country legally, since it is not that easy to
sneak into this country from Europe.

Legal immigration is fair; illegal immigration is not. The American people have
a right to decide who should be allowed to enter our country.

Seymour Habel

Boca Raton

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              308 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 7, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

MEXICO, U.S. TRADE CRITICISM

BYLINE: NANCY NUSSER

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher arrived in Mexico Monday with a
power-team of eight U.S. Cabinet secretaries and he cut to the chase - tension
between the nations over illegal Mexican immigration.

In his opening statement at Mexico's Foreign Ministry, Christopher addressed the
April beating of two illegal Mexican immigrants by California police, which
sparked continuing outrage here.

The United States works to respect the rights of Mexican migrants, he said, "But
we also have a responsibility to our citizens of every heritage to enforce our
laws and protect our borders."

His Mexican counterpart, Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria, didn't mince words
either. He said the illegal status of Mexicans smuggled into the United States
"doesn't alter their inalienable rights as human beings."

The two days of sessions are the 13th meeting of the Binational Commission, a
body of U.S. and Mexican officials that comes together annually to discuss
concerns shared by both nations.

But this year's session comes as Mexico turns into a trouble spot for President
Bill Clinton. Under pressure from an irritated American public, Clinton has
moved to tighten the U.S.-Mexico border against illegal immigrants. But since
the California beating, Mexico has protested what it views as a Draconian
crackdown.

In what appears to be a move aimed at smoothing ruffled feathers, the U.S. team
is filled with heavy-hitters, Attorney General Janet Reno, drug czar Barry
McCaffrey, Environmental Protection Agency administrator Carol Browner, chief of
the Drug Enforcement Administration Thomas Constantine and the secretaries of
interior, education, transportation and health and human services.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              309 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                  May 16, 1996, Thursday, SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

BRIEFLY

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 189 words


BOCA RATON

A group seeking to ban welfare benefits for undocumented immigrants announced
Wednesday it has collected the 43,000 signatures needed to submit ballot wording
to the Florida Supreme Court for approval. The Florida 187 Committee will need
to collect 450,000 signatures by Aug. 1 to place the question on the November
general election ballot. The county elections office must verify the people who
signed are registered voters.

WEST PALM BEACH

Dr. Alina Maria Alonso has been named clinical services director of the Palm
Beach County Public Health Unit. Alonso, who will be paid an annual salary of $
104,988, replaces Dr. Deanna Odom, who resigned in March. Alonso, 40, has worked
for the health unit since November 1989, most recently as medical director of
the clinic serving Lantana and Lake Worth.

WEST PALM BEACH

Northwood University will award degrees to 200 students in commencement
exercises starting at 9 a.m. today on the campus at 2600 N. Military Trail.
Florida Commissioner of Education Frank Brogan and Thomas Pledger, chairman and
CEO of Dycom Industries, will receive honorary doctorates.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
METRO REPORT

TYPE: Brief

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              310 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     May 16, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS DON'T HELP PAY OUR DEBT

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 129 words


The letter ''Foley far from a bigot on immigration'' was excellent. I believe,
however, that it would be wise to stop all immigration, at least until we get
some serious problems straightened out.

In case anyone has forgotten, we have a $ 5 trillion national debt to pay off.
In the ''Ask Marilyn'' column, which appears in Parade every Sunday, Marilyn Vos
Savant has explained this mind-boggling amount of money for those of us less
adept in mathematics. If we paid $ 1 million a day, not even counting interest,
it would take 12,000 years to pay off this debt.

If that doesn't clarify the problems this nation faces, I don't know what it
will take. We are no longer in a position to act as the hospitality capital of
the world.

Barbara Lamb

Delray Beach

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              311 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 31, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

30 CRIMINAL IMMIGRANTS BEING DEPORTED FROM U.S.

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


With U.S. Sen. Bob Graham and other officials watching Thursday, 30 shackled
criminal immigrants scheduled for deportation boarded a corrections bus out of a
west Dade County prison.

The inmates - 20 men and 10 women - were to be flown back to their home
countries Thursday and today. On average, they were within two years of
finishing criminal sentences for drug trafficking, theft, robbery and other
serious crimes. Most of them are from Haiti, Mexico, Colombia and Jamaica.

This brings the number of deported criminal immigrants to 358 under a special
state-federal program. Graham emphasized that the state will save $ 15 million
by deporting the inmates.

"Now is time to get them out of our system and out of our pockets," Graham said.
"Now we can open up 30 cells for violent criminals."

If any of the deported criminal immigrants attempt to reenter the United States,
they will rejoin the state prison population. Walter Cadman, South Florida's
Immigration and Naturalization Service director, said that prospect will serve
as a strong incentive for these immigrants to stay away from Florida.

"It is important that we show a zero tolerance policy toward immigrant
criminals," Cadman said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (B&W), THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, Thirty criminal immigrants to be
deported from the U.S. are loaded onto a bus Thursday at the South Florida
Reception Center.

                   Copyright 1996 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              312 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 19, 1994, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

NEW POLICY TO HEAD OFF FLOTILLA, RENO SAYS

BYLINE: LARRY KAPLOW, LARRY LIPMAN,; and CANDY HATCHER

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1412 words


The federal government will begin detaining Cuban refugees who come to Florida
by boat, federal officials said late Thursday, announcing a vague but monumental
change in U.S. policy toward Cuban immigration.

Attorney General Janet Reno did not specify where or how long refugees would be
detained, saying only that the trip from Cuba to Florida is unsafe ''and we are
trying to discourage people from coming.''

The change came after Gov. Lawton Chiles pressured, threatened and pleaded with
Reno and President Clinton to take control of the massive migration from Cuba.

By late evening, 527 refugees had been plucked from the waters off Key West
Thursday.

The governor declared a state of emergency in Dade and Monroe counties. He said
he would consider ordering all Cuban immigrants quarantined until medical
workers determined that the refugees posed no health threat to Floridians.

''There are hundreds of people, perhaps thousands, massing on the shores of
Cuba,'' and the Cuban government no longer is preventing them from leaving,
Chiles said. ''A true emergency exists for the state of Florida.''

Thirteen Coast Guard ships are patrolling the Florida Straits. The National
Guard is on standby. Cubans are arriving by the hundreds in homemade boats and
rafts - more than 1,500 this week. And South Florida, which absorbed 125,000
refugees from Cuba during the 1980 Mariel boatlifts, is bracing for more.

Since 1966, Cubans arriving in Florida have been released to relatives or other
sponsors in the United States upon their arrival, after being interviewed by
immigration officials.

Chiles said he was delighted by the federal government's agreement to hold the
refugees for screening. The new policy sends a strong signal to Cubans not to
come to Florida, he said. ''I'm feeling much better about it now.''

Chiles had written Clinton and Reno, imploring them to put the federal emergency
plan in effect and send more money for housing, health care and other services.

Nineteen members of Florida's 25-member congressional delegation also had
written the president. The state, their letter said, ''is neither able nor
obligated'' to assume the burdens of processing, transporting and taking care of
the refugees.

Sen. Bob Graham, a Democrat from Miami Lakes who was governor during the 1980
crisis, applauded the new policy, saying it showed that the U.S. would not
tolerate manipulation by Fidel Castro. The detention order also means there will
be a way to determine whether ''any of the arrivals are inappropriate for
release into the population of the United States.''

Federal officials have not put the federal emergency immigration plan into
effect, and Florida officials still say that is critical.

The plan would release up to $ 35 million for state and local governments. It
would establish a second immigration detention center to relieve the crowded
Krome Avenue facility - possibly at Homestead Air Force Base - and deploy U.S.
Public Health Service doctors and others to screen the new arrivals before
allowing them into the general public.

As many as 7,000 law enforcement officers from Indian River to Monroe counties
could be sworn in as deputy federal marshals to enforce immigration laws under a
federal emergency order.

FLORIDA SNUBBED AT FIRST

Until late Thursday night, federal officials ignored Florida's pleas, saying
intervention is unnecessary. The Cuban migration to South Florida has not proved
to be a burden yet, they said.

Reno, who was Dade County's chief prosecutor during the Mariel boatlifts, noted
that Florida is scheduled to receive $ 44 million this year under a federal
program to provide targeted assistance to communities with a large proportion of
refugees.

Chiles, angered by the federal snub, began working on other ways to curb the
influx into Florida. He asked his lawyers to draft an order that would require
all refugees to be quarantined and screened for health and safety.

Chiles also put the state's emergency immigration plan in effect. That plan is
supposed to help the seven counties most affected handle an immigration wave for
10 to 14 days until federal emergency management and immigration agencies can
take over the operation.

The plan covers Monroe, Dade, Broward, Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie and Indian
River counties, though Chiles' emergency declaration covered only Monroe and
Dade counties.

Since Aug. 5, when Cuban leader Fidel Castro threatened another Mariel after the
worst rioting of his 35-year rule, homemade boats and rafts have been traveling
the treacherous 90 miles between Cuba and Key West by the dozens.

Key West officials said they normally receive about 500 immigrants a month, and
that strains their services. Now, with that many coming a day, they need help.

Although Key West officials were consumed by the crisis, the city seemed not to
notice. The activities are unfolding at the Coast Guard's secluded base and at
the Transit Center for Cuban Refugees, away from bustling downtown.

Local hospitals have treated many of the Cubans rescued by the Coast Guard, and
police officers have helped transport some of them, said Billy Wagner, director
of Monroe County Emergency Management.

The privately run Transit Center for Cuban Refugees, however, continues to feel
the brunt of the refugee crisis. All Cubans are transported to the small
compound after processing at the base to be fed, clothed and advised on getting
settled. Buses from Miami relief agencies pick up the refugees at the center and
take them to Dade County daily.

If the center can't handle the growing numbers of arrivals, local officials are
ready to house 2,000 refugees temporarily at the Monroe County Detention Center,
the area's newly built jail.

The Coast Guard believes the number of refugees will peak at 1,500 a day because
of the limited number of boats available to make the trip from Cuba, said a U.S.
government source.

COUNTY ON STANDBY

Palm Beach and Broward counties are on standby to take in refugees if Homestead
Air Force Base reaches capacity, said Assistant Palm Beach County Administrator
Vince Bonvento. An unused storage building at the Port of Palm Beach will
accommodate 2,000 people, he said.

''We got the communication lines open,'' said Bonvento, who is coordinating the
county's response to an immigration emergency. He said county officials,
including the sheriff's office and health agencies, met last week to update the
plan and consult with state officials.

Bonvento said the county received about 3,000 Cuban refugees during the 1980
Mariel exodus and kept them for 10 days at the West Palm Beach armory on Lake
Avenue and at the South Florida Fairgrounds.

The federal government reimbursed the county $ 150,000 for the cost of housing
and feeding the Mariel refugees, he said. For any new refugee influx, the county
will bill the state, he said.

The county should consider the fairgrounds as a refugee site if the numbers get
out of hand, said Luciano Martinez, executive director of the Hispanic Human
Resources Council.

''I'm sure we are going to see a significant influx up this way,'' Martinez
said. He said the 1980 refugee flow has left the county better prepared.

''Social service agencies are in a better position to deal with a crisis of this
nature,'' he said.

The council is collecting food, clothing, toys and other items to send to the
Cubans coming ashore in the Florida Keys.

Herb Ugalde of Palm Beach Gardens said his four cousins and their families
arrived in Miami Tuesday after making the crossing in a 25-foot boat. ''Fidel
wants to get rid of as many people as possible who are hungry and dissatisfied
with conditions on the island,'' Ugalde said.

The boat left from Havana with the approval of Cuban authorities, said Ugalde.

Castro's hands-off attitude toward people ready to take enormous risks to escape
his rule contributed to the sudden surge in the number of refugees reaching the
United States.

So too, for many years, has U.S. law, which gives Cubans unique status among
refugees. Cubans who reach U.S. shores cannot be sent back. Even criminals are
kept in U.S. prisons rather than returned to the Castro government.

The Cubans are welcomed, while Haitians who make an equally perilous journey are
turned away.

Staff writers John Fernandez, Bill Douthat, Monika Gonzalez, Brian Crowley, Bob
Deans and Julia Malone contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), CANADIAN PRESS PHOTO, Cubans in Cojimar parade down the
street Thursday with boats and rafts heading for the water, apparently without
police interference. Cojimar is 10 miles from Havana.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              313 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 6, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. TURN-BACK POLICY APPEARS TO HAVE SLOWED HAITIAN EXODUS

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Fewer Haitians appear to be fleeing their island by boat as a result of the Bush
administration's May 24 decision to force back virtually anyone found

trying to leave there by sea.

The number of people intercepted by the Coast Guard showed little change

for the first few days after Bush announced the policy; more than 1,000

Haitians were picked up on May 29.

But none has been picked up in the last two days, administration officials said,
and only four boats were intercepted in the prior three days. If the

exodus continues to slow, they will shut down a tent city on the U.S. naval

base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where Haitian refugees had been taken until

immigration officials could examine their asylum requests.

A New York federal judge Friday decided not to stop the forced

repatriations, an action one official said would reinforce the

administration's message that it was not worth it to try to leave Haiti.

In handing down the ruling, U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. said that
laws cited by attorneys seeking to overturn the Bush policy did not apply in
international waters.

The judge, however, had harsh criticism for the Haitian policy. "This

court is astonished that the United States would return Haitian refugees to

the jaws of political persecution, terror, death and uncertainly when it has

contracted not to do so," Johnson wrote.

Michael Ratner, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said the ruling would be

appealed.

Since a Sept. 30 military coup ousted Haiti's first elected president,

Jean-Bertrand Aristide, "the numbers (of boat people) have gone up and

down," a State Department official said, "so no one is going to make a

definitive prediction" that the numbers won't go up again. "But people are

not setting off as much as before," he said, and "it appears the policy is

having that effect."

"One thing that's for certain," a U.S. official said in Port-au-Prince,

"the word is out. People do know" about the change in policy. "It's out

there in the provinces" with constant radio broadcasts. "We've blanketed the

airwaves with the announcement," he said.

Several Haitians interviewed Friday near Petit Goave, a departure center

about 50 miles southwest of Port-au-Prince, said they were aware of the

policy.

Mackino Virgil, a 26-year-old man who said he had been sent back from

Guantanamo twice, said "fewer people are taking boats now because they know

they are just going to lose their money. They are not keeping Haitians in

Guantanamo; they are closing the base down."

Joblessness and poverty have increased as a result of a U.S.-backed

embargo designed to force the return of democracy to Haiti. Critics have said
the embargo is only causing needless suffering and is not tight enough to have
any effect on the military-backed government or its wealthy supporters.

Some Haitians said they would try to flee again despite the new policy.

"I'm just not staying here," said Jose Luis Oreste, a 21-year-old

mechanic who had been returned in April from Guantanamo. "I'm living in a

country that does not offer you any opportunities."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Did not run MSL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C/AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 12, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS HOPE, WAIT AS LAWYERS FIGHT FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: By MARY JANE FINE, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1348 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Early evening still held the heat of late afternoon as the waiting room

filled with people. They stood, shoulder to shoulder, patiently. They shared

seats, perching on the edges of them. The cramped room, without air

conditioning, grew close. Late arrivals spilled out onto the balcony.

Silent and uncomplaining, faces damp with sweat, they waited at the

Haitian-American Community Center on Belvedere Road one recent weeknight: more
than two dozen men and women, hoping for help.

It is a scene likely to become increasingly familiar in the coming weeks

and months as volunteer attorneys and paralegals from the West Palm Beach area
join their Miami counterparts in a massive effort to win asylum for Haitian

refugees before time runs out.

"The caseload is overwhelming," says Merrill Smith, coordinator of the

Haitian Asylum Project of Church World Service, one of several resettlement

agencies working with the refugees.

Since the Sept. 30, 1991, coup that deposed President Jean-Bertrand

Aristide, thousands of Haitians have sought asylum in the United States. So

far, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has granted only a

handful of requests. Some 27,000 refugees were summarily returned to Haiti

after being intercepted at sea or housed in tent camps in Guantanamo Bay,

Cuba. An estimated 11,000 have been given temporary work permits and parole

status while immigration authorities investigate their claims of political

persecution.

"These 11,000 have been paroled into the country, and we have to now

fight for their asylum," says Smith, an attorney in Church World Service's

Miami office. "A lot of them don't understand that. They think they're home

free."

Not so. Every request faces a challenge. The Bush administration maintains that
most Haitians are fleeing poverty rather than political persecution. By

some estimates, 99 percent of Haitian asylum applicants lose. Winning involves
convincing skeptical authorities that an applicant has a legitimate fear of

being beaten, tortured or even killed if he or she returns home.

But refugee advocates like Smith assert that countless Haitians don't even get a
fair chance to make their case.

He described hasty INS interviews-- some lasting no longer than three to

five minutes-- conducted aboard Coast Guard cutters. The inadequacy of such

interviews, he said, was compounded in many cases by poor translation and

inexperienced interviewers unable to appreciate the subtleties of an

applicant's story.

Two of the examples he cited involved fine points of the creole language, spoken
by most Haitians.

In one, INS interviewers overlooked the connotation of the Haitian word

politikay, a pejorative term that conjures up the rampant corruption in

Haiti's political-military government. The interviewers, trying to identify

ineligible refugees, would straightforwardly ask applicants if they had been

"political" in Haiti. A "no" answer was taken to mean that the

applicant was not a political refugee but an economic one-- and therefore

ineligible for asylum.

Another common misunderstanding, Smith said, involved use of the

affectionate nickname Titid for ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Individuals affiliated with the Aristide regime or the movement that elected

him are known to be at risk of persecution, but inexperienced interviewers

often failed to catch the colloquial reference-- loosely, "little

Aristide"-- that indicated a close relationship to the former president.

Deadlines for asylum cases vary. Authorities gave 90-day work permits to

the first wave of parolees, but most applicants now have extensions for a year
or more to allow time for advocates to research and argue their claims.

To date, Miami has been the battleground for area Haitians, the place

where attorneys conducted exhaustive interviews with hopeful parolees and

processed reams of paperwork aimed at securing their futures.

Then, in July-- with INS' West Palm Beach office re-opened and able to

print work permits-- the sheer volume of work prompted Smith to seek

volunteers in Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast, home to the state's

second-highest population of Haitian immigrants brought from Guantanamo. After
consulting the immigration lawyers directory, he invited seven area attorneys to
attend a meeting at the Haitian-American Community Center.

Two people showed up: Maria Douthat, a paralegal for an immigration law

firm, and Jean Porochonski, a legal secretary who had heard Smith's appeal on
the radio.

Clearly disappointed by the small turnout, Smith nevertheless launched the
mission with fervor, at times sounding less like an attorney and more like a

coach pumping up his team for victory.

"We are attempting to rebut the unstated claim that they come here for

economic reasons," he said, as the two volunteers jotted down notes. "These

things can take time. We recommend two interviews. Get as much specificity as
possible to overcome challenges to credibility."

The process is rife with problems, he told them. In addition to

translation obstacles, many Haitians are illiterate, unable to write down

their stories, necessitating lengthy interviews to piece together their

tangled personal sagas. The accounts must be meticulously detailed in order to
overcome the skepticism of immigration authorities inclined to doubt what they
hear. Proof that someone held a job or owned a business in Haiti, for

instance, can successfully refute the notion that every refugee is poor and

unemployed.

To successfully build a case for their clients, Smith said, attorneys need "the
skills of a detective, a journalist, a psychologist-- things they

don't teach you in law school."

It is vital, he emphasized, that interviewers understand recent Haitian

history-- the significance of such quasi-political movements as Lavalas and

Gwoupman, for example, and fear-charged incidents like the so-called "Drink

Their Blood" radio broadcast, which named more than 150 Aristide supporters

and warned, "It's time to drink their blood."

Smith recommended using a landmark calendar, since Haitians are less

likely to recall a specific date than to describe an event as taking place

"about a month after the (Sept. 30) coup."

His advice was specific and blunt. Conduct at least two lengthy

interviews. ("They've never been interviewed so extensively. Tell them, `We

have to educate (INS) to overcome its ignorance.' ") Permit no exaggerations.
("If one soldier came to the house, don't say three.")

It is a point Smith hammers home: Accuracy is crucial.

In the past, INS has used notes taken during initial screening interviews to
impugn the credibility of applicants who later tell conflicting stories.

"Procedurally, it's an outrage," Smith says. "We've demanded they either

stop using the notes or deliver them to us. You can't properly prepare a case
without knowing everything." INS has maintained that the handwritten notes

are not part of the official record.

The process is slow-going. To date, Smith estimates that 1,300

applications have been filed, 250 of them by Church World Service. Of the 11

responses received by Church World Service, seven were approvals; four were

intents-to-deny.

Coordinating the effort has been slow-going, too. The real work of

interviewing has yet to begin. Competing obligations tug at the volunteers;

the center has been in turmoil since the suspension of its former director in
the spring. And the appointment of a new director last week may mean an

additional delay. But Smith and his cohorts are committed to helping the

refugees stay in the United States.

"People can't imagine that the government would send them back after all

they've been through-- being on the Coast Guard cutter, in the Guantanamo

camp, on the airplane," Smith said. "But they will. They will."

* If you are interested in volunteering, call 1-305-541-8040 or write to

Church World Services, 701 S.W. 27 Ave., Room 707, Miami, Fla. 33135.

SEEKING HOPE

Here's what happened to some of the Haitians who came to South Florida from

Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Figures are as of July 31, the most recent numbers

available.

Florida 7,872

Dade 3,549

Broward 873

Palm Beach 1,675

Martin/St. Lucie 792

U.S. total About 11,000

SOURCE: HRS

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions / Information box at end of text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 23, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 STUDENTS DEPORTED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: OMAHA, NEB.


Two high school students were yanked from class and deported to Mexico by

immigration officials who said the teenagers were illegally in the United

States.

Two immigration officials summoned Ambrosio Lopez, 17, from an English

class at Omaha South High School on Nov. 6. He was held at a detention center
over the weekend, then flown to southern Arizona and escorted across the

Mexican border, the Omaha World-Herald reported Sunday.

He had little money and no change of clothes.

Immigration officials also arrested Augustin Antunez, 15, at South High

School and deported him.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  In Brief / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 3, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS SETS DAILY LIMIT;
RIVIERA OFFICE TO SEE ONLY 175 APPLICANTS

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Facing crowds of up to 300 immigrants a day, the federal immigration office in
Riviera Beach began a new policy Wednesday of serving only the first 175

people who show up at its door.

Also, beginning next week, the office will close to the public on Fridays. The
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service office at the Port of Palm Beach
already restricts its hours, but that wasn't enough to reduce the

workload, said Sharon Mallory, office supervisor.

"We've had such a crush of people," Mallory said.

The only time the public can visit the office is from 8 a.m. to noon,

Monday through Thursday. The INS workers will use Fridays to help catch up on
paper work, Mallory said.

The new policy will cause hardships, advocates for immigrants say.

Many immigrants come from Martin, St. Lucie and Indian River counties and pay as
high as $50 a day for transportation, said Dexter Orange, director of

the Cuban-Haitian Resettlement Program for U.S. Catholic Charities.

"Can you imagine paying that kind of money and getting down here and

having to go home and try again?" Orange said.

"We are talking about a group of people who can't afford that."

Orange said the INS should expand its services to handle the increasing

number of immigrants in the area.

"If they accept only the first 175, the only option people will have is

to take more time out of their day and get there early," said Tim Jafek, a

paralegal with the Guatemalan Center in Lake Worth.

He said the office has been beneficial to immigrants because they can

receive work permits without making a trip to district INS offices in Miami.

Mallory said the heavier crowds are caused by Haitians and Guatemalans

seeking employment authorization cards while their asylum petitions are in the
process of being reviewed.

She said up to 75 people are outside the door when the office opens on

Mondays and Tuesdays but the line tapers off later in the week.

Mallory said there are four employees and two vacant job positions in the small
Riviera Beach office.

"Our biggest problem here is shortage of space," she said. "In the

future, I expect we will be moving to bigger quarters and have a bigger

staff."

The office gives information and takes requests for forms over a recorded
message system.

The number is 844-4341.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 8, 1992 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS DIE AT SEA; ADS URGE REFORM

BYLINE: United Press International

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Between five and 15 Haitian refugees died during an unsuccessful attempt to
reach Florida and 166 of their companions, starving and dehydrated when the

Coast Guard found them, were returned to Haiti Monday.

News of the deaths came as an immigration reform group began running

commercials urging Florida residents to pressure President-elect Clinton to

continue the Bush administration's direct-repatriation policy toward Haitian

refugees.

The latest group of refugees was intercepted Saturday night in the Old

Bahama Channel, in international waters about 330 miles southeast of Miami.

They were aboard a rickety 30-foot sailboat that the Coast Guard deemed

unseaworthy and grossly overcrowded. The refugees were taken aboard the cutter
Seneca and given food, water and medical care.

They told their rescuers they had been at sea for at least eight days and
possibly as long as 15 days, and had run out of food and water three days

after leaving Haiti.

"The migrants also reported that five to 15 of their compatriots had died during
the journey and had been buried at sea," Coast Guard Petty Officer

Toni Long said.

The Seneca returned the survivors to Port-au-Prince Monday, under

President Bush's May 24 order calling for direct return of Haitian refugees

intercepted at sea.

The Federation for Immigration Reform is airing radio commercials in

Miami. A commercial on station WINZ urged listeners to write letters to

Clinton telling him they support the direct-repatriation policy.

Clinton has previously said he will change U.S. policy.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 9, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BROAD ROLE PUSHED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 773 words


American black leaders, concerned that President Bush's objectives in

Somalia are too limited, on Tuesday called for U.S. military forces to

maintain order in the famine-stricken African country until an effective

government can be established.

Randall Robinson, executive director of the lobbying organization

TransAfrica, said if U.S. troops only open a food distribution network and

then get out quickly, the operation will "do nothing more than (postpone) the
disaster."

Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., urged President-elect Clinton to help rebuild the nation
once the immediate danger of starvation has been alleviated.

RELIEF DELAYED

Relief workers have been advised by the U.S. military to stay indoors for at
least the first 48 hours after the arrival of American troops in the Somali

capital, but many relief officials are concerned that the interruption will

last longer.

LIFE-SAVING DIET

Aid workers try to save the most malnourished people with a carefully

controlled diet of biscuits and porridge.

The victims first are given special biscuits laden with sugar to give them quick
energy. It's about as much as their stomachs can take.

Next, they are fed a porridge mixture of beans, cooking oil and wheat or

maize.

DEPORTATIONS PROTESTED

The U.S. government is violating humanitarian standards by deporting Somalis
back to their starving homeland, said Allan Ebert, a lawyer who represents

immigrants from Somalia.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Ebert's accusation

distorts the truth.

INS spokesman Verne Jervis said 12 Somalis were denied asylum in the

United States in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 107 were approved for

asylum, and 563 cases were pending as of that date.

GUN MARKET

Even before they landed, American Marines had pretty much destroyed

Mogadishu's thriving gun market. The price of an AK-47 assault rifle dropped

from between $200 and $300 Monday to about $30 Tuesday.

"It's because people feel they aren't going to use their weapons and are

getting rid of them," said Robert Oakley, the U.S. special envoy.

But Oakley didn't think guns would disappear from the streets of the

capital, where they have been carried for months by thousands of young men and
boys almost as a symbol of manhood.

"Since we can't get guns off the streets of our big cities, I don't think we'll
be totally successful in Mogadishu," he said.

U.S. UNITS

FORCES DEPLOYED

* Marine Amphibious Ready Group: The amphibious assault ship USS Tripoli,

the amphibious transport dock ship USS Juneau and the dock landing ship USS

Rushmore, with about 1,800 Marines who comprise the Special Purpose Marine Air
Ground Task Force.

* Maritime prepositioning ships: The MV Jack Lummus, the MV James Anderson, the
MV Alex Bonnyman and the MV Franklin J. Phillips.

* The aircraft carrier USS Ranger and its escorts, the cruiser USS Valley

Forge and the supply vessels USS Wabash and USS Gianella.

* Nearly two dozen KC-135 air-refueling tankers, mostly from Air National

Guard and Air Force Reserve units.

FORCES ON ALERT STATUS

* 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, Calif.

* 10th Army Mountain Division, Fort Drum, N.Y.

* Naval Mobile Construction Battalion 1, Gulfport, Miss.

* Naval Mobile Construction Battalion 40, Port Hueneme, Calif.

* Naval Beach Group 1, Coronado, Calif.

* 30th Naval Construction Regiment, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii

* 2 "fast sealift" ships, the USNS Pollux, en route to Bayonne, N.J.,

and the USNS Capella, en route to Wilmington, N.C.

* Air Force units: 60th Airlift Wing, Travis Air Force Base, Calif.; 62nd
Airlift Wing, McChord Air Force Base, Wash.; 63rd Airlift Wing, Norton Air

Force Base, Calif.; 108th Air Refueling Wing, McGuire Air Force Base, N.J.;

141st Air Refueling Wing, Fairchild Air Force Base, Wash.; 151st Air Refueling
Group, Salt Lake City; 157th Air Refueling Group, Pease Air Force Base, N.H.;
164th Airlift Group, Memphis, Tenn.; 172nd Airlift Group, Jackson, Miss.;

190th Air Refueling Group, Forbes Air National Guard Base, Kansas; 349th

Airlift Wing, Travis Air Force Base, Calif.; 433rd Airlift Wing, Kelly Air

Force Base, Texas; 434th Air Refueling Group, Grissom Air Force Base, Ind.;

436th Airlift Wing, Dover Air Force Base, Del.; 437th Airlift Wing, Charleston
Air Force Base, S.C.; 438th Airlift Wing, McGuire Air Force Base, N.J.; 439th
Airlift Wing, Westover Air Force Base, Mass.; 445th Airlift Wing, Norton Air

Force Base, Calif.; 446th Airlift Wing, McChord Air Force Base, Wash.; 452nd

Air Refueling Wing, March Air Force Base, Calif.; 512th Airlift Wing, Dover

Air Force Base, Del.; 907th Airlift Group, Rickenbacker Air Force Reserve

Base, Ohio; 910th Airlift Wing, Youngstown, Ohio; and 913th Air Group, Willow
Grove, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Somalia: Operation Restore Hope / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 19, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MELTING POT ADDS MILLIONS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An influx of nearly 5 million immigrants between 1985 and 1990 brought the

number of foreign-born people living in the United States to nearly 20

million, the Census Bureau said Friday.

The bureau report said 7.9 percent of the U.S. population is now foreign- born,
up from 6.2 percent in 1980 and 4.7 percent in 1970. There are heavy

concentrations in California, home to almost one-third of all those born

outside the country, and New York.

About 11 percent of Palm Beach County's population, 6 percent of Martin

County's and 6 percent of St. Lucie County's are foreign-born.

The nation's foreign-born population of 19.8 million rose sharply from 14
million in 1980 and 9.6 million in 1970, according to the bureau figures.

Susan Lapham, who prepared the report, said the percentage of foreign-born
residents still was well below the 13.5 percent of 1910, when the population

was much smaller. But she said that "from every indication we've had," the

number of immigrants in the population will continue to grow.

The data did not reveal how many of the new immigrants, or foreign-born

residents, were in the country illegally, Lapham said.

A major immigration law enacted in 1986 has allowed 3 million aliens

illegally in this country at that time to acquire legal status, mostly

residency as a first step toward citizenship.

"All this confirms that immigration is skyrocketing out of control," said

Ira Mehlman of the Federation of American Immigration Reform, which lobbies

for tighter restrictions on immigration. He predicted that the numbers of new
aliens "is going to be substantially higher" during the next five years as

foreign nationals already in the country help their extended families back

home gain entry.

Mexico remained well ahead as the most common country of origin for

foreign borns, representing 21.7 percent of the total and doubling in numbers
from 2.2 million in 1980 to 4.3 million in 1990.

Otherwise, many of the newest Americans were from Asia and Latin America, with
the Philippines, South Korea, Vietnam, China and El Salvador rising in

the ranks.

Following Mexico in the top 10 countries of origin were the Philippines at 4.6
percent; Canada, 3.8 percent; Cuba, 3.7 percent; Germany, 3.6 percent;

Britain, 3.2 percent; Italy, 2.9 percent; Korea, 2.9 percent; Vietnam, 2.7

percent and China, 2.7 percent.

The bureau said nearly 60 percent of foreign-born residents were not U.S.
citizens. The percentages of non-citizens were generally low for European

countries-- 28.1 percent for Germany and 24.2 percent for Italy-- and high for
Latin American countries-- 84.6 percent for El Salvador, 84.9 percent for

Nicaragua and 83.1 percent for Guatemala.

The number of foreign-born residents nearly doubled in California in the

past decade, to 6.5 million or 21.7 percent of the state's population. Other

states with large foreign-born populations were New York with 2.8 million or

15.9 percent, Florida with 1.7 million or 12.9 percent and Texas with 1.5

million or 9 percent.

New York City had the biggest foreign-born population, at 2 million,

although Los Angeles had a larger percentage, with 1.3 million, or 38.4

percent of its population.

Nevertheless, Los Angeles ranked only 17th among cities in terms of

percent of foreign born. Tops was Hialeah, Fla., with 70.4 percent of its

188,000 people; followed by Miami at 59.7 percent; Huntington Park, Calif., at
59.7 percent; Union City, N.J., at 55.1 percent; and Monterey Park, Calif., at
51.8 percent.

Wyoming had the smallest number of foreign-born people, at 7,647, followed by
South Dakota at 7,731 and North Dakota at 9,388. In terms of percentage,

Mississippi was the lowest with 0.8 percent of the state's population,

followed by Kentucky and West Virginia at 0.9 percent.

Martin County, with a population of 100,900, had 6,349 foreign-born

residents.

St. Lucie County, with a population of 150,171, had 8,788 foreign-born

residents.

Palm Beach County had 96,989 foreign-born residents in a total population of
863,518.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 19, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MELTING POT ADDS MILLIONS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An influx of nearly 5 million immigrants between 1985 and 1990 brought the

number of foreign-born people living in the United States to nearly 20

million, the Census Bureau said Friday.

The bureau report said 7.9 percent of the U.S. population is now foreign- born,
up from 6.2 percent in 1980 and 4.7 percent in 1970. There are heavy

concentrations in California, home to almost one-third of all those born

outside the country, and New York.

About 11 percent of Palm Beach County's population, 6 percent of Martin

County's and 6 percent of St. Lucie County's are foreign-born.

The nation's foreign-born population of 19.8 million rose sharply from 14
million in 1980 and 9.6 million in 1970, according to the bureau figures.

Susan Lapham, who prepared the report, said the percentage of foreign-born
residents still was well below the 13.5 percent of 1910, when the population

was much smaller. But she said that "from every indication we've had," the

number of immigrants in the population will continue to grow.

The data did not reveal how many of the new immigrants, or foreign-born

residents, were in the country illegally, Lapham said.

A major immigration law enacted in 1986 has allowed 3 million aliens

illegally in this country at that time to acquire legal status, mostly

residency as a first step toward citizenship.

"All this confirms that immigration is skyrocketing out of control," said

Ira Mehlman of the Federation of American Immigration Reform, which lobbies

for tighter restrictions on immigration. He predicted that the numbers of new
aliens "is going to be substantially higher" during the next five years as

foreign nationals already in the country help their extended families back

home gain entry.

Mexico remained well ahead as the most common country of origin for

foreign borns, representing 21.7 percent of the total and doubling in numbers
from 2.2 million in 1980 to 4.3 million in 1990.

Otherwise, many of the newest Americans were from Asia and Latin America, with
the Philippines, South Korea, Vietnam, China and El Salvador rising in

the ranks.

Following Mexico in the top 10 countries of origin were the Philippines at 4.6
percent; Canada, 3.8 percent; Cuba, 3.7 percent; Germany, 3.6 percent;

Britain, 3.2 percent; Italy, 2.9 percent; Korea, 2.9 percent; Vietnam, 2.7

percent and China, 2.7 percent.

The bureau said nearly 60 percent of foreign-born residents were not U.S.
citizens. The percentages of non-citizens were generally low for European

countries-- 28.1 percent for Germany and 24.2 percent for Italy-- and high for
Latin American countries-- 84.6 percent for El Salvador, 84.9 percent for

Nicaragua and 83.1 percent for Guatemala.

The number of foreign-born residents nearly doubled in California in the

past decade, to 6.5 million or 21.7 percent of the state's population. Other

states with large foreign-born populations were New York with 2.8 million or

15.9 percent, Florida with 1.7 million or 12.9 percent and Texas with 1.5

million or 9 percent.

New York City had the biggest foreign-born population, at 2 million,

although Los Angeles had a larger percentage, with 1.3 million, or 38.4

percent of its population.

Nevertheless, Los Angeles ranked only 17th among cities in terms of

percent of foreign born. Tops was Hialeah, Fla., with 70.4 percent of its

188,000 people; followed by Miami at 59.7 percent; Huntington Park, Calif., at
59.7 percent; Union City, N.J., at 55.1 percent; and Monterey Park, Calif., at
51.8 percent.

Wyoming had the smallest number of foreign-born people, at 7,647, followed by
South Dakota at 7,731 and North Dakota at 9,388. In terms of percentage,

Mississippi was the lowest with 0.8 percent of the state's population,

followed by Kentucky and West Virginia at 0.9 percent.

Martin County, with a population of 100,900, had 6,349 foreign-born

residents.

St. Lucie County, with a population of 150,171, had 8,788 foreign-born

residents.

Palm Beach County had 96,989 foreign-born residents in a total population of
863,518.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 19, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN INCIDENT UNDER INVESTIGATION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


The Border Patrol in West Palm Beach is looking into dealings between three
illegal Haitian immigrants and the former director of the Haitian-American

Chamber of Commerce in Delray Beach, Border Patrol officials said Friday.

Daniella Henry, who was fired from the chamber in September, brought two Haitian
adults and a child into the Delray Beach Police Department on Thursday and,
according to a police report, wanted to have their pictures and

fingerprints taken for some legal documents.

The immigrants told police that Henry had charged them $100 each to drive them
to have the photos and prints taken. The papers they were carrying said

the Haitians arrived in the United States by stowing away on a boat, Lt.

Robert Musco said.

Henry said the incident is a mix-up.

She said the couple had $100 to apply for political asylum, and

applications cost $60 each. She took the couple to have their pictures and

fingerprints taken, and the photographer said it would cost $40. When Henry

said the couple had no money, the photographer suggested she take them to the
police station to be fingerprinted.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 20, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEFECTOR PLUCKS KIN FROM CUBA

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A former Cuban air force major who defected last year in a MiG-23 jet flew

a small airplane Saturday back to Cuba, picked up his wife and children and

returned to Florida.

"I brought my family back. They are my life. They are free," Orestes

Lorenzo Peres said in front of TV cameras after landing with his wife and two
children.

In March 1991, Lorenzo flew a stolen MiG-23 fighter to the Key West Naval Air
Station. Since then, he had tried to get Cuban authorities to let his wife and
children leave Cuba. They refused.

Lorenzo said he flew a four-passenger plane to the city of Matanzas, 60

miles east of Havana.

"I landed in front of a car," he said. A truck and a bus pulled to a

stop and passengers watched as Lorenzo's waiting wife and two young children

jumped into the plane and he took off.

Lorenzo and his family flew the 90 miles from Cuba without incident and

landed at an airport in Marathon Key.

With his son in his arms, Lorenzo said, "Our love is the love of

freedom. Today I think love won."

His family immediately applied for political asylum with U.S. immigration
authorities.

They were released by immigration officials and went to an undisclosed

location.

Armando Valladares, founder of The Valladares Foundation, a human rights

group, said his foundation provided the airplane for the rescue.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/LORENZO, ORESTES LORENZO PERES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 21, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CELEBRATE HANUKKAH;
SOVIET JEWS LEARN ABOUT HOLIDAY

BYLINE: By MITCH McKENNEY, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Sam Dinovitser, his wife, Lucy, and son Daniel are celebrating Hanukkah for the
first this year.

They were aware of the holiday before, but living in the Ukrainian city of
Odessa kept them out of touch with how other Jewish people celebrated it.

On Sunday, the Dinovitsers and about 50 other "new Americans" attended a

Hanukkah party at the Sylvia and Harold Kaplan Jewish Community Center, where
they learned how and why to take part in the holiday.

The Dinovitsers moved to Palm Beach Gardens in late September, joining

family members already in Palm Beach County. Sam Dinovitser said he was a

heating and air conditioning expert in the former Soviet Union, but so far he
has only found work assembling furniture here.

"It's difficult," he said. "It's a new country, I have no language, I

have no American skills. It's much different."

But Daniel, who turns 10 today, said his adjustment to the move went

"just fine."

Anita Potkin, who coordinated the event, said it's the second year that

the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County's Soviet and International Jewry

Task Force have welcomed Jewish immigrants by celebrating Hanukkah traditions.
Participants took home small gifts and literature about the holiday,

written in Russian.

For Faneya and Abram Topcha, their September move to Century Village in

West Palm Beach reunited them with their daughter, Mila Ostim, a law student

at the University of Miami.

"She said she was very impressed at how everybody smiles," said Ostim,

33, translating for her mother. "She likes that people she doesn't even know

do."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 SHERMAN ZENT/Staff Photographer Tanya Brusilovskaya claps along to a song
during a Hanukkah party.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 23, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COAST GUARD FINDS REFUGEES `LIVING IN THEIR OWN FILTH'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


An Indonesian crew faced charges Tuesday of smuggling 180 Chinese refugees

after their filthy ship was escorted into San Francisco Bay by officials

responding to a radio plea for help.

Coast Guard vessels met the ship eight miles off the Golden Gate Bridge

after the captain radioed that his vessel was out of drinking water. The ship
left Taiwan Nov. 4.

"It's abominable. They're living in their own filth," said Coast Guard

Petty Officer Gary Openshaw. "There's vomit, urine and excrement strewn

through the decks."

After health inspectors approved, INS agents began taking the 16 female

and 164 male passengers off the ship at a San Francisco Bay naval base.

INS officials will interview the refugees and decide whether to initiate

deportation proceedings, said Bill Tait, INS assistant deputy director for

examination. All passengers are Chinese citizens.

INS officials said they would seize the 165-foot Honduras-registered cargo ship,
Manyoshi Maru. The nine crew members, who remained aboard, faced

criminal charges for smuggling refugees, Tait said.

The boat was bound for San Francisco, Tait said.

Crew members radioed for help Monday night after passengers ran out of

fresh water and complained of serious illness.

"They started to get a bit testy with the crew, and the crew feared for

their personal safety," Tait said.

A surgeon who was flown by helicopter to the freighter found cases of

dehydration but no illness that required hospitalization, a Coast Guard

spokesman said.

On board, state health inspectors found several inches of human waste and
garbage lining the hold where the passengers made the voyage. Part of the deck
were also covered with human waste.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 23, 1992 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COAST GUARD FINDS REFUGEES `LIVING IN THEIR OWN FILTH'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


An Indonesian crew faced charges Tuesday of smuggling 180 Chinese refugees

after their filthy ship was escorted into San Francisco Bay by officials

responding to a radio plea for help.

Coast Guard vessels met the ship eight miles off the Golden Gate Bridge

after the captain radioed that his vessel was out of drinking water. The ship
left Taiwan Nov. 4.

"It's abominable. They're living in their own filth," said Coast Guard

Petty Officer Gary Openshaw. "There's vomit, urine and excrement strewn

through the decks."

After health inspectors approved, INS agents began taking the 16 female

and 164 male passengers off the ship at a San Francisco Bay naval base.

INS officials will interview the refugees and decide whether to initiate

deportation proceedings, said Bill Tait, INS assistant deputy director for

examination. All passengers are Chinese citizens.

INS officials said they would seize the 165-foot Honduras-registered cargo ship,
Manyoshi Maru. The nine crew members, who remained aboard, faced

criminal charges for smuggling refugees, Tait said.

The boat was bound for San Francisco, Tait said.

Crew members radioed for help Monday night after passengers ran out of

fresh water and complained of serious illness.

"They started to get a bit testy with the crew, and the crew feared for

their personal safety," Tait said.

A surgeon who was flown by helicopter to the freighter found cases of

dehydration but no illness that required hospitalization, a Coast Guard

spokesman said.

On board, state health inspectors found several inches of human waste and
garbage lining the hold where the passengers made the voyage. Part of the deck
were also covered with human waste.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 24, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHINESE REFUGEES SEEK U.S. ENTRY

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Immigration rights attorneys pressed Wednesday for the release of 180

Chinese passengers incarcerated after an excruciating voyage across the

Pacific Ocean, but a top Immigration and Naturalization Service official said he
sees no reason they should be allowed into the United States.

The seven-week trip by the freighter Manyoshi Maru from Taiwan to San

Francisco also attracted the attention of the FBI. Agents will investigate

possible Asian organized crime links.\

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 27, 1992 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

' FLAG-WAVING' BORDER AGENT PLANS NEW LIFE IN COSTA RICA

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1541 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Neal Richards, Border Patrol agent, is getting ready to cross the fence.

After 17 years of standing guard on America's borders, he plans to retire in the
same region of the world that generates the largest stream of

immigrants to the United States.

"I'm selling everything I got here, and I'm moving to Costa Rica," said

Richards, chief of the four-man Border Patrol station at the Port of Palm

Beach. "I'm becoming an alien. I'm going to be an immigrant."

A Border Patrol agent since 1975, including the past nine years in Riviera
Beach, Richards says he'll leave when he reaches his 20th year with the Border
Patrol.

Richards' love affair with the Central American republic is serious.

He gave his 28-foot fishing boat in Jupiter the name Puravida, a Costa

Rican colloquialism meaning the good life.

After first traveling to Costa Rica in 1990 on a fishing excursion, he's

gone back to visit seven times. During one visit, a friend introduced him to

Damaris Montero, a 30-year-old Costa Rican woman.

Richards and Montero were married Nov. 10 in Martin County. Montero, who

doesn't speak English, entered the country on a fiancee visa that Richards

obtained at the U.S. Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica's capital.

Richards doesn't see the irony of marrying an immigrant. "It was all done
legally," he says. But the contradiction is obvious to people who know him by
reputation as an aggressive enforcer of immigration laws.

Did the tropical sun turn the prince of xenophobia into a bleeding heart? No
way.

Among Costa Rica's attractions are strict immigration laws, absence of a

welfare system and regard for authority, Richards said. And, after years of

dealing with Hispanics, he's developed an appreciation for Latin culture and

often has Hispanic friends over to his Hobe Sound home.

But Richards, an ex-Marine who describes himself as a "flag waver," has

not changed his hard-line views. His outspoken opinions and sometimes

overblown fears about undocumented immigrants -- he claims many live off

welfare and commit crimes-- has made him a target of immigrant advocacy

groups.

He says immigrants use political asylum claims to escape poverty rather

than persecution.

"It's word of mouth that you can come here, and we will take care of you, give
you shelter and assistance," Richards said.

ENJOYS BEING A TOUGH GUY

Richards' conservatism developed early. He joined the Marine Corps as a

17-year-old Ohio high school student in search of a more disciplined

environment. He was a Marine for 20 years, including two 13-month tours during
the Vietnam War.

"He's one of these people who enjoys being a tough guy," said West Palm

Beach immigration lawyer Frank Ricci.

Carlos Huertas, a West Palm Beach travel agent who has been to Costa Rica with
Richards, says he's seen the other side of Richards.

"As soon as the pilot says `Welcome to Costa Rica,' Neal goes through a

transformation," said Huertas. "It's like watching the Wolfman change. He

becomes so relaxed."

Richards, tall and angular with silvery hair and a trim mustache, is

convincing in his role as the heavy in his forest green uniform. Compassion

doesn't come easily in his job.

"If you gave in," Richards says, "the word would get out. There would

be a line of people at my door asking for favors that by law I can't do."

Richards' cramped office is filled with tough-guy mementos: bronzed

dolphins, a Remington copy of a cowboy, a figure of a Border Patrol agent with a
toothy, demonic grin, holding a pair of dice behind his back.

On his desk is a copy of a newspaper column titled `Clinton's Promise to

Haitians will Produce his First Crisis.' It's a warning, penned by Jeb Bush,
that talk of granting temporary asylum to Haitians would produce a

"hurricane" of boat people.

On the wall is a photograph of Richards sitting in a class-portrait pose

with his nine agents. That was three years ago. Now he has three agents. While
the federal government was cutting back his staff, he says, the increase in

undocumented immigrants coming into his eight-county jurisdiction has

quadrupled.

The cat-and-mouse game he plays with immigrants slipping across the 120

miles of coastline assigned to his small force greatly favors the mouse. The

cats don't patrol. Not by boat. Not by air. Not by car. Immigrants can be

smuggled onto beaches undetected.

"We only catch the ones who have bad luck, who run out of gas, have

engine trouble or wash up on the beach," Richards said. His men could round

up hundreds of undocumented immigrants on any day in agricultural fields or

just down the street from his office. But there is no room at detention

centers and no money to deport large numbers.

`MOBBED WITH ALIENS'

Outside the Border Patrol offices, the lobby of the port administration

building is filled with dozens of immigrants waiting for their number to be

called to see a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service examiner.

"Jeeez, we're getting mobbed with aliens," says Richards with

characteristic directness.

Richards says the immigrants are getting more aggressive. He is

investigating an incident involving eight Guatemalan farmworkers who allegedly
attacked two of his agents after their van was stopped near Indiantown. The

van driver was charged with assault on a federal officer.

The attack follows a pattern of more aggressive behavior toward law

officers by immigrants, Richards says.

An advocacy group, the American Friends Service Committee, says the bus

driver simply grabbed onto the officer's shoulder after losing his footing.

The Riviera Beach Border Patrol station is a frequent target of the

American Friends group, which issued a report this year alleging mistreatment of
immigrants by agents. Richards says no immigrant has ever filed a formal

complaint.

American Friends attorney Jonathan Fried of Miami says Richards' agents

routinely pick up immigrants in Indiantown or Fort Pierce and bring them in

for questioning, only to determine they are in the country legally.

"I talked to somebody last week who had to pay a taxi driver $60 to take

him back to Okeechobee," Fried said.

Richards confirms the practice, but he says the immigrants are required by law
to have in their possession at all times documentation of their

immigration status. He said they are subject to $100 fines, but he allows them
to leave after confirming their status.

Fried challenges Richards' statement that no immigrant has ever filed a

formal complaint against his office. He said Florida Rural Legal Services

attorneys filed complaints to the Border Patrol sector office in Miami and

other federal agencies about the alleged mistreatment and verbal abuse of a

26-year-old Guatemalan who was detained by Richards' agents in 1990.

The complaint signed by the immigrant, Rodrigo Perez of Indiantown, said

agents accused him of being homosexual and was struck in the chest by an

agent's hand six or seven times for refusing to answer questions.

Richards said last week that he had never been notified that a complaint

had been filed by Perez.

Immigration attorney Al Zucaro of West Palm Beach said Richards is strict but
reasonable in dealing with immigrants.

"He has a black or white approach to immigration law, while I look at it

more in the gray area," Zucaro said.

Richards often speaks in absolutes, sometimes off the mark. He says 30

percent of state prison inmates are immigrants. A Florida Department of

Corrections spokesman says foreign-born people make up 7 percent of inmates.

Richards says immigrants approved for political asylum get a $7,500 government
check for resettlement costs. The federal agency that handles resettlement

says there is no such payment. But Cuban and Haitian immigrants granted asylum
and a small number of other refugees are entitled to the same health and

welfare benefits as citizens.

UNQUESTIONABLY PRODUCTIVE

There is less to question about Richards' productivity.

The office was the first to fine employers for hiring undocumented workers after
a 1986 law was passed. His office has issued 135 citations, resulting in fines
of $726,300.

His men apprehend twice as many undocumented immigrants per agent than any of
the four other stations in Florida. The apprehensions came to 1,090, equal to
272 for each agent.

Richards gives priority to tracking and deporting undocumented immigrants
convicted of felonies. The only time his men make raids in agricultural areas is
when a bus chartered by the Border Patrol in Miami comes through with empty
seats. It's space-available deportation. The number of vacant seats dictate

how many will be deported.

There is never a shortage of potential bus riders.

In his early years guarding the border in Southern California, Richards

said he intercepted up to 200 border-crossers a day. Some kept coming back,

day after day, until they were successful.

"The best way I've heard this job described is that it's like sweeping

back the ocean," Richards said.

NEAL RICHARDS

* PERSONAL: Married; four sons from a previous marriage.

* HIS STORY: Richards, 54, was born in Canton, Ohio, and joined the Marine

Corps in his senior year in high school. After 20 years in the Marines, he

joined the Border Patrol and was assigned to the Mexico-California border.

He's now chief agent in charge of the Border Patrol station in Riviera Beach. *
QUOTE: `The best way I've heard this job described is that it's like

sweeping back the ocean.'

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  SUNDAY SPOTLIGHT......Ran all editions...info box at end of text

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/MUG & B/W
 LOREN G. HOSACK/Staff Photographer Since visiting Costa Rica in 1990, Border
Patrol agent Neal Richards has gone back seven times. His wife is a native of
the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 31, 1992 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION RELEASES CUBAN DEFECTORS

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, and ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post StaffWriters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Employing the code word "fiesta," 48 Cubans secretly plotted for as long

as 18 months a daredevil escape aboard a tourist flight from Havana to a

popular beach resort.

Wednesday night they found their freedom as federal officials released

them to the emotional hugs and cries of relatives and Cuban-American leaders.
"This is so exciting. Imagine leaving behind a dictatorship. I think this

is the desire of many Cubans," said Jorge Enrique Provenza, 36, after walking
out of the Krome Detention Center at 10 p.m.

All 48 Cuban defectors who landed in Miami on Tuesday aboard an Aero

Caribbean plane were released to relatives or organizations Wednesday, capping a
frustrating day for those who waited for hours without word outside the

detention center in western Dade County.

Relatives and local Cuban-American leaders speculated that the defectors

were detained throughout the day as federal officials were considering

charging the Cubans with hijacking.

In a prepared statement, U.S. Attorney Roberto Martinez said immigration

officials made the decision to release the Cubans and that the FBI would

continue to investigate the incident.

State Department officials said government lawyers were deeply divided

over whether to regard the diversion of the Cuban airliner as a hijacking.

If the incident were deemed a hijacking, the United States would be

required under international law to prosecute or extradite accused hijackers,
State Department spokesman Joseph Snyder said.

But the legal questions couldn't dampen the deep emotions as families

reunited.

Catarina Tomas, 23, made the escape with her mother and 19-year-old

brother, Ariel. They were greeted in Miami by her father, Jose Ramon Tomas,

who hadn't seen them since he defected in Spain three years ago.

Catarina said that several of the children aboard the flight vomited from

the tension and she was frightened because the plane was flying so low.

"We pretended to be going on vacation," she said. "We only brought

bathing suits and shorts in case they searched us."

On Monday night, the defectors got phone calls from the plot leaders that the
following morning was "fiesta" time. By 9:20 a.m. Tuesday, pilot Carlos

Cancio Porcel had diverted the airliner to Miami after some of the passengers
overpowered a co-pilot and knocked out a security guard with an ether-soaked

handkerchief.

"Down with Fidel," the defectors yelled as the plane touched down at

Miami International Airport.

The Cuban government condemned the airliner's diversion as a "terrorist

act" of "aerial piracy;" it also accused Washington of complicity in

violations of international accords by automatically granting political asylum
to Cuban refugees arriving in Florida.

The Cuban airliner left Miami International Airport shortly before 9 p.m.
Wednesday along with a Cuban escort plane carrying the five Cubans who wanted to
return, said Marc Henderson, spokesman for the Dade County Aviation

Department. The Cubans who sought to return included the co-pilot, a security
officer and a stewardess.

The Aero Caribbean flight, and that of former Cuban air force pilot Orestes
Lorenzo, who flew a small plane back to Cuba on Dec. 19 to whisk his family

off a beachside road, show a weakness in Cuba's defenses, experts said.

While that was a single low-flying plane, this flight carried 53 people on a
regularly scheduled domestic airliner.

Armando Valladares, a Cuban exile who served as U.S. representative to the
United Nations human rights committee, says the Lorenzo and Aero Caribbean

flights are signs of the future. "They show the weakness in Castro's defense

system and raise the possibility of more escapes," he said.

The dramatic flights came in a year that has seen a record number of

boaters and rafters reaching Florida's shores. Coast Guard patrols have picked
up 2,549 Cubans this year, up from only 59 in 1988, said spokeswoman Toni

Long.

Lawyers and security experts specializing in aviation issues said

Wednesday that the Aero Caribbean defection raised complicated legal issues

and that there was little experience to draw on for answers.

At least three multilateral agreements, drawn up between 1963 and 1971,

might be relevant to the Aero Caribbean flight, said Tracy Martineau, a

spokeswoman for the International Civil Aviation Organization in Montreal. One
such convention governs "offenses and certain acts committed on board

aircraft," she said, and a second has to do with "the suppression of

unlawful seizures of aircraft." A third deals with the "suppression of

unlawful acts against the safety of civil aviation."

The United States has signed each of those agreements, but Cuba is not a

party to any of them. Nevertheless, "that does not affect our obligations"

to act in accordance with the conventions, a State Department official said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Also ran South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 6, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HEAD OFF CRISIS BEFORE HAITIAN FLOTILLA SETS SAIL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 399 words


The United Nations and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service are

making plans to handle a flood of Haitian refugees expected to take Bill

Clinton's Jan. 20 inauguration as a cue to set sail for South Florida. Rather
than simply deal with victims of persecution, however, why not halt the

persecution itself?

Sadako Ogata, U.N. high commissioner for refugees, has drafted a two-step plan.
First, Haitians intercepted at sea would be taken to a country other

than the United States and be interviewed by immigration officials. Those who
have a legitimate fear of persecution would be granted asylum in America.

Those who don't-- such as people whose motive is to escape poverty -- would be
returned to Haiti.

The INS also has a plan, drafted because Mr. Clinton has promised to end

the Bush administration policy of returning to Haiti all refugees picked up at
sea. The INS calls for interviewing the Haitians in a third country, at sea or
in a protected enclave in Haiti.

In theory, the U.N. and INS plans have the benefit of averting mass

landings on South Florida's beaches. But reality spoils the theory. Most

Haitians would be justifiably afraid to apply for asylum while within Haiti.

And consider that the Coast Guard thinks there are about 700 boats, each

capable of carrying at least 100 people, preparing to leave Haiti. A flotilla of
70,000 people, even spread out over several weeks, would be a nightmare no
matter whether you were trying to take them to a third country or interview

them aboard ship-- a procedure, by the way, that hasn't worked well in the

past. The Coast Guard couldn't stop all the refugees from reaching Florida.

Some would drown.

Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney recently voiced a better idea -- a
U.N.-sponsored naval blockade to replace the ineffective embargo imposed by

the Organization of American States. But the U.N. won't be able to act by Jan.
20. Also, the blockade has to be backed up by a credible threat of force,

which in itself could be enough to make Haiti's military rulers capitulate.

The U.N. and INS need to go ahead with their plans, in case the refugee

flood is as bad as predicted. Meanwhile, there's only one way Mr. Clinton can
encourage Haitians to stay home. The president-elect has to promise that Jean-
Bertrand Aristide, the elected Haitian leader ousted in a military coup,

will resume his presidency shortly after Mr. Clinton begins his.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial / Ran all editions

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 11, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLINTON SPEEDS PLAN ON HAITI TO STEM EXODUS

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Is South Florida on the threshold of a Haitian Mariel crisis?

That is the fear-- regardless of how well-founded -- that is being raised

by all sides of the debate over the new Haiti policy.

The specter of a massive Haitian exodus is forcing President-elect Clinton to
announce his strategy to cope with the chronic political crisis in Haiti

since the bloody September 1991 military ouster of President Jean-Bertrand

Aristide.

Bush was criticized during the campaign for treating the Haitian political
crisis primarily as an immigration problem, but Clinton and his aides also are
being forced to make stemming immigration a primary concern as they cobble

together a "new" Haiti policy that they are to unveil this week.

The Bush administration said the threat of mass Haitian immigration made

it necessary to impose the blanket interdiction and repatriation of Haitian

boat people this year. Haitians must now pursue their asylum claims back in

their turbulent homeland.

Florida Democratic Rep. E. Clay Shaw said Clinton's campaign promise to

change that policy could fuel a massive Haitian influx that would exact an

enormous economic toll on Dade County, which still is recovering from

Hurricane Andrew. But Shaw employed the immigration fear to argue in favor of
flexing U.S. military might.

"At this point, you may be the only person who can avert an immigration

emergency in South Florida," Shaw, a former mayor of Fort Lauderdale, said in a
Jan. 7 letter to Clinton. "The American military mission in Somalia offers

an example of how the United States can successfully apply military force to

serve humanitarian ends.

"The ongoing crisis in Haiti, where a 7,000-man army has overthrown the

democratically elected president and plunged the economy deeper into despair, is
similarly amenable to an American military response," he wrote. "It seems

likely that even the credible threat of American military intervention would

topple Haiti's corrupt military regime.

"Restoring democracy to Haiti will prevent another South Florida

immigration crisis on a par with the Mariel boatlift," he said, referring to

a large influx of Cubans into South Florida in 1980.

Some refugee advocates, who had initially hoped Clinton would take more

aggressive steps against Haiti's current rulers, such as a naval blockade, to
enforce the U.S.-backed economic embargo, now fear that the new Clinton Haiti
policy will simply be "warmed-over Bush." Recent statements to the media by

Clinton aides eager to discourage an immigration wave have increased their

fears.

"Clinton is apparently considering extending instead of rescinding Bush's
interdiction order," said Steven Forester, the chief attorney for the Haitian
Refugee Center in Miami. "If he does, it would be a violation of his campaign
promises. If he's sending up trial balloons, we're going to shoot them all

down."

One Latin American expert in touch with the Clinton transition team said

Clinton will distinguish himself from Bush by applying stronger U.S. pressure to
powerful Haitian military officers and wealthy entrepreneurs to restore

democratic rule and Aristide. He said that could solve the refugee problem,

since Haitian immigration slowed to a trickle during Aristide's seven-month

tenure.

The expert said several Haitian dictators, including Jean-Claude "Baby

Doc" Duvalier, left Haiti under U.S. pressure. Aristide himself often tells

reporters that "a simple phone call would do."

A potential wrinkle in that scenario is Aristide's own vows to punish

military officers involved in the coup and future difficulties coexisting with
powerful and intransigent figures in the military and oligarchy who are

accustomed to being the stewards of Haiti's destiny, other analysts say.

And while policy-makers attempt to solve the crisis, the immigration

problem will remain.

Policy-makers discussed the Haitian problem last week at the same time as a
Miami conference outlined how to deal with a potential wave of Cuban

refugees that could be triggered by an end to the one-party state of Fidel

Castro in Cuba. Interdiction was not the issue: Participants talked instead

about how airports and public buildings could be prepared to accommodate the

influx.

On Thursday, more than 115 Haitian refugees abandoned a weeklong hunger

strike they began to protest the preferential treatment accorded to Cuban

refugees. Those differences were highlighted recently by the heroes' welcome

and rapid release of a planeload of defecting Cubans.

Some Haitian refugee supporters, such as Johnnie McMillian, the head of

the Dade County branch of the National Association for the Advancement of

Colored People, attribute the difference to racism.

But INS spokesman Duke Austin contended that refugees from all over the

world face similar obstacles as the Haitians.

He said Cuban refugees receive unparalleled preferential treatment under

the Cuban Adjustment Act, passed by the U.S. Congress in the mid-60s to

accommodate the thousands of Cubans who fled after the 1959 Revolution led by
Communist leader Fidel Castro.

"It's not a racial thing. It's an aberration in our immigration process

that really discriminates for Cubans, not against Haitians," he said. "You'd

find the same aberration if you compared Nicaraguans and Chinese to Cubans.

The policy is being uniformly applied."

One senior INS official said that "the fairest thing to do would be

repeal the act. If they repealed that act, then at least the U.S. government

wouldn't be seen endorsing separate treatment."

Arthur Helton, director of the Refugee Project for the Lawyers Committee

for Human Rights, contended that U.S. immigration policy has always been

selectively generous, and not only in the case of the Cubans.

He pointed out that during the height of Central American strife in the

1980s, U.S. immigration officials approved a far greater percentage of

political asylum applications by Nicaraguans fleeing the 10-year Sandinista

state-- which had poor relations with the United States-- than those of

refugees from Guatemala and El Salvador, whose governments were friendly to

the United States.

What analysts agree on is that Clinton must make a rapid and firm effort

to bring about a political solution in Haiti. If he cannot achieve that

quickly, he might find himself in a similar position as past administrations

-- trying to cope with the immigration problem while muddling through the

political crisis.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 12, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

S. FLORIDA MIGHT NOT HOUSE HAITI REFUGEES;
CHILES SAYS U.S. PLANS MOVE IN CASE OF INFLUX

BYLINE: By JOUNICE NEALY, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government would house Haitian refugees outside South Florida

if another wave of Haitians begins fleeing the island, Florida Gov. Lawton

Chiles said Monday.

Chiles made the announcement after meeting with Dave Berteau, principal

deputy to the assistant secretary for productions and logistics in the

Department of Defense. However, he said Berteau would not say exactly where or
how many refugees the government would put elsewhere.

Berteau could not be reached for comment, and a Pentagon spokesman

declined to disclose any details of an emergency immigration plan.

Chiles said the federal government should assist in a mass immigration

emergency because Florida has carried more than its share of the burden of

immigration. In 1980, 125,000 Cuban refugees fled to the United States-- most of
them settling in Dade County.

Since the government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was overthrown in
September 1991, about 38,000 Haitian refugees have sought asylum in the United
States.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 13, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STATE FORMS REFUGEE PLAN IF U.S. GETS OVERWHELMED

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 747 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


State and local officials are scrambling to prepare for the arrival and

short-term detention of thousands of Haitian refugees-- just in case.

A federal plan, revealed Monday by Gov. Lawton Chiles, is designed to

spare South Florida the impact of a Mariel-type influx of 100,000 Haitian

refugees seeking political asylum. Chiles said he was told of the plan by

Pentagon officials during a meeting Monday.

But the state has formulated a plan of its own should immigration

officials be overwhelmed by an influx of refugees.

Local and state officials met Monday and Tuesday to discuss ways of

handling such an influx if the federal government cannot respond promptly. Lt.
Gov. Buddy MacKay, U.S. Rep. Carrie Meek, D-Miami, and Miami Mayor Xavier

Suarez were among the officials who met at Miami City Hall on Tuesday. Chiles is
expected Friday to reveal the state's plan, including the designation of

possible South Florida sites for detaining thousands of Haitian refugees.

Although some details have not been worked out, the plan outlines possible sites
for initial processing, transportation and short-term detention of the

incoming Haitians.

"It's a plan we hope we'll never have to activate," said Joe Pena,

director of the governor's South Florida office. "But it's more of a stopgap

measure to provide for the protection of life and property here in Florida, as
well as protect the basic humanitarian needs of our Haitian immigrants."

U.S. officials fear President-elect Clinton's inauguration next week may

prompt an exodus from Haiti because of Clinton's statements during the

presidential campaign that he opposed the Bush administration policy of

repatriation.

The state plan includes provisions for housing, health care,

transportation and security for the refugees, said Chiles spokeswoman Julie

Anbender. She would not provide details but said the federal government would
reimburse the state for its costs from a $35 million account set aside by

Congress for immigration emergencies.

"We're briefing all state agencies to keep careful records if such an

exodus occurs," Anbender said, noting that the state is still owed $100

million from the 1980 Mariel boatlift, which brought 125,000 Cubans to

Florida.

She said Chiles has pushed the federal government to provide housing for

refugees away from South Florida. "Especially after Andrew, South Florida

just cannot shoulder the additional burden," she said.

The proposal to divert refugees from South Florida was supported by Mary
McCarty, Palm Beach County Commission chairwoman. "We are having a hard time

meeting the needs of the residents we have today," she said.

Detaining Haitians puts a hardship on their ability to prepare their

political asylum petitions and creates a double standard, said Hardy Nicoleau,
executive director of the Haitian American Community Center in West Palm

Beach.

"I'm not knocking Cubans, but they are leaving Cuba for the same reasons

that Haitians are leaving Haiti," Nicoleau said.

Cubans usually are detained for only one or two days under a requirement

that classifies them as political refugees. The government considers most

Haitians fleeing their homeland economic refugees who are not entitled to

political asylum. Haitians are detained by immigration officials for several

months while their asylum claims are processed.

If released from detention, Haitians would work to support themselves and not be
a burden on the taxpayers, Nicoleau said.

Meek said the federal plan should include a fair political asylum hearing for
all Haitians and not a hasty interview "in the middle of the high seas."

She also wants the government to house the Haitians close to South Florida,

where many have relatives and access to legal counsel.

"As long as they're treated fairly and humanely, and they're not too far

away from South Florida, I can live with the federal plan," Meek said.

Chiles said that the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, may be used. A
tent city at the base was erected last year for Haitian boat people but was

closed after reaching a 13,000-person capacity.

Suarez, who is Cuban, said the U.S. economic embargo against Haiti is

identical to the one imposed by this country against Cuba. That is proof, the
mayor said, that the United States has a "hostile posture" toward both

regimes.

"So, by definition, Haitian refugees are political refugees," Suarez said.

"I don't buy this distinction between political and economic refugees."

* Staff writers Amy Driscoll, Bill Douthat and The Associated Press

contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C/AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 14, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

PROTESTERS WANT CLEAR HAITI POLICY

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS T. COHEN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON


Nearly 25 people marched in front of Boca Raton City Hall Wednesday to

protest the illegal immigration of Haitians to the United States and to demand
President-elect Clinton clarify his stand on the issue.

"Please Mr. Clinton, spell out your policy so those people don't come

here," Boca Raton resident and protest organizer William Lipton said.

In a post-election speech, Clinton said he supports a more humane

immigration program than the Bush administration's policy of repatriation.

Protesters claim Clinton's words have compelled Haitians to build

hundreds of boats and prepare a mass, Mariel-type exodus from Haiti after his
Jan. 20 inauguration. Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles is expected to announce a

state plan Friday to deal with the expected influx.

Those marching Wednesday insisted they are not anti-Haitian and said their
purpose is to prevent Delray Beach from turning into Port-au-Prince.

Edy Sanon, a spokesman for the Haitian American Community Council in

Delray Beach, blamed the influx of Haitians on President Bush and the coup

that ousted Haitian President Jean-Bertrande Aristide.

"If Aristide goes back in power, the immigration will come to a complete stop,"
Sanon said. "America should be open to everyone, especially people

like Haitians, who are being persecuted politically."

Lipton said his group-- South Floridians for Immigration Control-- is

made up mainly of Boca Raton and Delray Beach residents. The group, he said,

formed by word of mouth.

Some of the protesters do own homes and property in Delray Beach, where

many Haitians have settled after arriving in South Florida.

Bob Fulton, 56, a landowner in the city's historical district, said

Haitians "living 10 to 12 in a home" have caused property values to

decrease.

Sanon called the protesters' comments "discriminatory and uneducated."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 CAROLINE E. COUIG/Staff Photographer protest the illegal immigration of
Haitians in front of the Boca Raton City Hall.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 14, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ARISTIDE'S SUPPORTERS DISTRUST ARMY PLEDGE

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, and JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post StaffWriters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI


Supporters of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide expressed skepticism

Wednesday over reports of an army pledge to allow his eventual return and said
some would-be refugees had already ignored Aristide's plea that they stay in

Haiti.

"I'm going to leave whether Aristide comes back or not," aspiring

refugee Mario Pavilus told a reporter Wednesday. Pavilus is waiting for

boatbuilders to finish construction on a 60-foot wooden vessel at Leogane, 40
minutes from the capital of Port-au-Prince.

"Ever since the coup they've been telling people Aristide is coming,"

Pavilus said. "Even if they tell people Aristide is coming tonight, they

would still leave. People don't believe it anymore."

Pavilus said a refugee boat left Leogane Tuesday -- a day after Aristide's Voice
of America broadcast urging Haitians not to flee.

Yet there is no evidence that a large-scale sea exodus is looming, a group of
immigration attorneys and human rights advocates said Wednesday after

visiting Haiti.

"The Haitian people are not looking for reasons to leave; they are looking for
reasons to stay," said Harold Koh, a Yale Law School professor, who took

part in the fact-finding trip organized by the American Immigration Lawyers

Association.

Haitians are more hopeful of Aristide's return than of Clinton

"liberalizing" U.S. immigration policy toward Haitian refugees, Koh said.

Lawyer Lory Rosenberg said her group made an effort to search for evidence of '
' massive boat building" along the Haitian coast, but found none. The

lawyers said Haitians told them they knew nothing about a looming exodus.

But some in Haiti told a different story Wednesday.

"If there is no security and no food many people will still leave the

country, even if Aristide does come back," said Gregoire Lietele, a 34-year-

old bus driver.

Other Haitians might decide to stay if Aristide were present, "even if

they are suffering hunger and fear. Maybe," he added.

Haiti's military high command has reportedly signed a document committing
themselves to allow Aristide to return at some unspecified future time. In

return, Aristide is reportedly being urged to agree to grant a general amnesty
to those involved in the 1991 coup, to choose a prime minister from a list of
candidates submitted by the opposition, and to agree not to return

immediately.

The deal is still being negotiated, with representatives of the United

Nations and the 34-member Organization of American States acting as

intermediaries.

A Latin American diplomat and OAS team member agreed Aristide would face
security problems if he returned-- as well as difficulties exercising power.

"It would be very difficult to guarantee his security unless the

Americans sit the army down and say, `Look, if something happens to him, you

are going to have big problems,' " the diplomat said.

He said he suspected the army promise is an empty ploy to get the United

States and other nations to quickly lift the near-global economic embargo

against Haiti.

"They don't really plan for him to come back," he said. "They just want

to announce that there has been a political accord, get an end to the embargo,
name a prime minister, and then begin stalling again."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 15, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLINTON DASHES HAITIANS' HOPES;
BUT OUSTED ARISTIDE SUPPORTS THE PRESIDENT-ELECT

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Haitian community leaders and refugee advocates reacted with disappointment and
anger to President-elect Bill Clinton's decision to continue the Bush

administration policy of blanket repatriation of Haitian boat people.

They say Clinton, who announced his decision Thursday, went back on his

campaign promise to give fleeing Haitians the chance to apply for political

asylum. Local refugee advocates also say Clinton is ignoring dangers faced by
many in Haiti who are fleeing persecution and hiding in fear for their lives.
"We were hoping that, since he is a Democrat, he would be more

humanitarian," said Harley Nicoleau, executive director of the Haitian

American Community Center in West Palm Beach. "He should not have made that

promise in the campaign if he was not going to keep it."

Nicoleau said he expects some Haitians to come to the United States

anyway because of the dangers of living under the military regime controlling
the island.

"This violates a campaign pledge," said Steve Forrester, an attorney for

the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami. "We are outraged by this act."

"It's terribly disappointing," said Cheryl Little, an immigration lawyer

who represents several Haitians seeking asylum in South Florida. "Clinton did
the politically expedient thing by covering his back. He didn't want to deal

with a public outcry should Haitians take to the high seas in large numbers."
Clinton's announcement eased the concerns of officials preparing an

emergency response to the possibility of thousands of Haitians coming ashore

in South Florida.

Gov. Lawton Chiles, who has been working on a state plan to deal with a

possible flood of up to 100,000 Haitians, said he was "heartened" by

Clinton's decision. Chiles said he favors restoring democracy in Haiti and

protecting "South Florida from conditions that would be difficult to

handle."

Exiled Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Thursday expressed

support for Clinton.

"I continue to go with him, because that way we can have that democracy

back in Haiti as soon as possible," said Aristide, who was ousted in a 1991

military coup.

Aristide has broadcast messages to discourage Haitians from embarking on

the journey and has declared a return to popular government in Haiti as a

solution to the refugee crisis.

"My policies will continue to promote the return of democracy to Haiti,

to discourage the dangerous practice of boat departure and to expand

opportunities for the people of Haiti to make applications for refugee status
from within their own country," he said.

Aristide aides said they were pleased that Clinton "recognized that the

restoration of Haiti's constitutional government" is key to resolving the

crisis.

South Florida's newly elected U.S. representatives, Democrats Alcee Hastings and
Carrie Meek, met Thursday with immigration officials in Miami to discuss

the Haitian issue. Both lawmakers said they are confident Clinton will help

restore Aristide to power and prevent an exodus of refugees.

Congressional Republicans said Clinton's policy statement may be too late.
"President-elect Clinton has done what should have been done weeks ago by

coming out with a strong position regarding Haiti. Hopefully, his position

will send a strong message to Haitians to stay home," said Rep. Clay Shaw, a

Fort Lauderdale Republican.

Local Haitian community leaders say they are more optimistic that, with

Clinton as president, Aristide will return to Haiti and reestablish a

democracy.

"There is certainly more hope with Clinton than there ever was with Bush,"

Little said. ' ' We're not throwing in the towel at this point."

* Staff Writers Bill Douthat, Candy Hatcher and Larry Lipman contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 16, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEES WON'T BE STAYING IN MARTIN, STATE PROMISES

BYLINE: By CAROLYN FRETZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: STUART


If Haitian refugees land on local beaches next week, they will just be

passing through, Treasure Coast officials said Friday.

Martin County officials said they had assurances from the Florida

Department of Law Enforcement that Haitians coming ashore on Hutchinson or

Jupiter islands would be taken directly from the beach to a detention center

in Deerfield Beach.

St. Lucie County officials were still awaiting confirmation of what they

hoped would be similar arrangements.

"Our mission is to interdict, collect, quarantine and shift the burden,"

said Capt. John Pietruszewski of the Martin County Sheriff's Department.

Local officials told state and federal officials that they do not have the
facilities to cope with an immigration emergency involving people who may be

sick, starving or suffering from exposure.

FDLE supervisory agent Michael Washam said there will be several detention
centers in Broward County and a 24-hour holding center will be set up at the

Port of Palm Beach. He said none will be in Dade County because the county's

resources are limited as a result of Hurricane Andrew.

Far from being relieved by President-elect Clinton's reversal of campaign
promises to open U.S. borders to Haitians, Martin County officials say the

change in policy probably came too late to stop the expected flotilla.

MARTIN OFFICIALS MAP OUT STRATEGY

"Many of these people have probably already made their plans and paid

boat captains for passage," said Martin County's Director of Public Safety

Bill O'Brien. "They may not be in a position to do anything other than just

come on."

O'Brien met with sheriff's deputies and members of the Martin County

School Board, health department and the Red Cross Friday to map out strategy. If
a boat comes ashore sheriff's deputies and emergency medical workers

will go to the beach, according to the plan. The deputies will make sure the

Haitians all stay in one place, and the medical workers will identify refugees
who need medical attention.

In the event that FDLE cannot immediately transport the refugees to

Deerfield Beach, Martin County school buses will take them to the fenced-in

grounds of the Martin County Sheriff's Department on Monterey Road.

There, workers from the Martin County Public Health Unit will screen the

refugees for communicable diseases, such as tuberculosis and AIDS, and set up
portable toilets.

"Whatever doesn't get done by someone else, the Red Cross will do,"

O'Brien said. "That could be anything from food to blankets."

St. Lucie officials also plan to hold refugees on their jail grounds, at

Rock Road, if necessary.

Officials from both counties said they will set up tents if the weather is bad
when and if any refugees come ashore.

St. Lucie County has several interpreters on call who speak both Creole

and English, sheriff's Capt. Dennis Nickel said.

"We've also got a helicopter and single-engine and twin-engine airplanes

on standby to assist the Coast Guard if they need it," Nickel said.

Members of a Palm Beach County task force, including representatives of

the state Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, the School Board,
and several Haitian advocacy groups, spent two hours Friday deciding what

types of foods and other supplies should be sought for refugees.

`CULTURALLY APPROPRIATE' FOOD SOUGHT

The head of the task force, Vivian Taylor, suggested that the foods be

"culturally appropriate." Crackers would be a good idea, she said, but

should they be saltines or Ritz?

Ruth Pierre-Louis of the International Refugee Center said Haitians don't like
saltines, so it was decided to ask for donations of Ritz crackers.

Likewise, cans of tuna should not be donated, the bureaucrats determined,
because Haitians prefer sardines.

At a luncheon meeting of the Forum Club in West Palm Beach, Jeb Bush, the
president's son, lashed out at Clinton for making campaign promises that

provoked the threat of a mass exodus.

Bush said Clinton's announcement Thursday that he will continue to send

fleeing Haitians back to Haiti for now and seek the possible return of exiled
Haiti President Jean-Bertrand Aristide are positive developments, but are not
enough to stop the exodus.

"The evidence suggests that if Clinton eventually did follow through with his
campaign promise to grant temporary asylum in the U.S. to the refugees,

the result would be that tens of thousands of Haitians would enter the U.S.," he
said.

* Staff writers Bill Douthat and Michael Lasalandra contributed to this

report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 19, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICE FACES LOGJAM OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


All roads to the United States sooner or later lead to the door to Sharon

Mallory's office.

Immigrants from Haiti, Central America and countries all over the globe

start lining up as early as 5:30 a.m. for a chance to speak to an examiner at
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service at the Port of Palm Beach.

The logjam is caused by a increase in immigrants while the number of INS

examiners assigned to the office has remained the same, said Mallory,

supervisor of the office.

On busy days, the 150 people in line when the office opens at 8 a.m. are

more than the office can see that day. On slow days, visitors at midmorning

are advised to come back the next day-- at an earlier time.

A rope line at the rear entrance to the port administration building

keeps the line orderly.

The port erected a partition between the main entrance and the INS office so
clients would not jam the lobby of the building.

A guard at the side door to the port building rations tickets to the 125

people who will be allowed inside the INS office that day.

"We have to shut the door when we run out of numbers," Mallory said.

"It's an explosion," said security guard Gary Shields. "It's like

putting 10 pounds of bologna in a 5-pound bag."

Mallory said her staff can only handle 125 visitors a day because of the

paper work generated by the immigrants.

The office began the numbering system last month.

"They need a bigger office," said Girish Patel, a nuclear medicine

technician who came to the office to pick up an application to renew his

permanent residency card.

Patel waited two hours before he was able to enter the office to pick up the
form, a task he said took one minute.

Mallory said immigrants can request forms be mailed if they call a

recorded message system, 844-4341.

She said forms are not placed on racks outside the office because they

would quickly disappear.

"As soon as you put them out they are gone," Mallory said.

"We can't keep them in stock because our office supply is limited."

A Boca Raton man who was waiting to get a form for his Brazilian-born wife said
he feels the federal government should expand the office.

"The government should be helping South Florida," Brian McKillen said.

"This is the gateway for immigrants."

Duke Austin, an INS spokesman in Washington, said long waits are common in
Florida, Texas, California and New York-- places where there are backlogs of
immigration cases.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           January 20, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BAIRD SORRY FOR HIRING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 237 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney-general-designate Zoe Baird apologized Tuesday for hiring illegal

immigrants and said she acted as a mother instead of a lawyer when she broke

federal law to obtain care for her young son.

"It was a violation of the law," Baird told the Senate Judiciary

Committee, which appeared inclined to approve her nomination. "Our decision

to hire the couple was wrong, and I deeply regret it."

With her husband, who is a legal scholar, sitting behind her, Baird

recounted for the panel her difficulty in finding the baby sitter they wanted
for their child, now 3 years old. But she repeatedly asserted she was offering
explanations.

"I was acting . . . more as a mother," said Baird, 40, a $500,000-a-year

attorney for Aetna Life & Casualty Company.

She and her husband, Yale law Professor Paul Gewirtz, paid a Peruvian

woman and her husband, who served as a driver for the family, $2,000 a month

plus room and board, she testified.

Since being named by President-elect Clinton to head the Justice

Department, Baird has paid back-Social Security taxes and $2,900 in fines for
hiring the couple, who worked for her for two years.

She also said:

* One of her first efforts would be to overcome a 1990 Supreme Court

decision abandoning a rule that laws interfering with religious practices must
satisfy some compelling government interest.

* The administration would support the rights of women seeking access to

clinics that perform abortions.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/BAIRD, ZOE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 22, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA IS POISED FOR HAITIAN INFLUX

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Although the threat of a huge Haitian refugee influx appears to have eased

for now, Gov. Lawton Chiles released some details Thursday of a Florida plan

to temporarily house, feed and process immigrants if they come.

Chiles stressed the plan, involving 17 state and local government

agencies, would operate for only 10 to 14 days in an emergency. After that,

responsibility for the Haitians would be turned over to the U.S. government.

Under the plan, several agencies will identify temporary sites to provide the
Haitians with food, medical treatment and shelter while they await

processing by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Within 72 hours of landing, the federal government will transport each

immigrant to a federal center outside of Florida.

The Marine Patrol will assist the Coast Guard in rescuing Haitians.

The Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services will handle medical

screening, identification and other needs at the shelters, where food and

medical care will also be available.

The Corrections Department will handle transportation of the immigrants to the
shelters using buses and vans, but any further moves will be the federal

government's responsibility. The National Guard will help set up the shelters.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 24, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BAIRD ISSUE UNDERSCORES CHILD CARE CRISIS IN U.S.

BYLINE: By MATTHEW VITA, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Zoe Baird is not alone.

President Clinton's former attorney general-designate, who withdrew her

candidacy early Friday in the face of mounting opposition, is among thousands of
working mothers who employ undocumented immigrants to care for their

children.

Despite her political downfall, child care advocates hope the 40-year-old mother
of one will become a symbol of America's child care crisis.

"Her problem is just the tip of the iceberg of the problem every two-

income family has in meeting its child care needs," said Barbara Reisman,

executive director of the Child Care Action Campaign in New York.

Much as Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas' Senate confirmation sparked a
national debate on sex discrimination, the two days of Baird hearings raised to
prominence the issue of working women and child care.

In many ways, Baird is an awkward symbol for those who want to call public
attention to the country's child care problem. As a powerful corporate lawyer
with an income in excess of $500,000 a year, she is hardly typical of working
mothers in America.

"Many families may not have as much money, but they face the same

problem," Reisman said. "Child care is unavailable to some, unaffordable to

many and of uncertain quality to practically everyone."

Three percent of working mothers with preschool children nationwide have

live-in child care like Baird, according to Ellen Gallinsky of the Families

and Work Institute in New York. That's down from 15 percent 25 years ago.

Gallinsky said there are two reasons for the decline: the high cost-- the
national average wage is $2.30 an hour, though much higher in many urban areas
-- and a shortage of qualified people willing to do the job.

"Millions of parents, when they find the right person, do think as a

parent and not as a professional," Gallinsky said, citing Baird's

justification for employing a Peruvian couple living illegally in the United

States. The woman cared for Baird's 3-year-old son; her husband was Baird's

driver.

MONEY MAY NOT BE ENOUGH

"It doesn't mean she (Baird) is right, but even if you have money, it's

not always easy to find the right person for your child," Gallinsky said.

Baird and her husband, Paul Gewirtz, a Yale University law professor, paid
$2,900 in fines and $11,839 in taxes this month after admitting their

"mistake." The Peruvians no longer work for the couple.

The Internal Revenue Service estimates that three-quarters of the

country's two million households employing baby sitters, gardeners, cleaners

and other domestic help do so illegally-- either by hiring unregistered

immigrants or by paying their employees under the table.

It's unclear how many are undocumented, but the number is believed to be

considerable.

"It's no secret that there are literally thousands of domestics who lack

employment authorization who are working at this very moment in Washington,

D.C., for government officials, attorneys, journalists" and other

professionals, said Michael Maggio, a Washington immigration lawyer.

Indeed, for many two-income couples or single parents struggling to find

adequate child care in a country facing a child care shortage, Baird's offense
may seem little more than an indiscretion-- the legal equivalent of a speeding
ticket, perhaps.

Of course, she was up for confirmation as the nation's top law enforcement
officer.

CRACKDOWN NOT A PRIORITY

But even the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not consider

cracking down on illegal domestic help to be a priority.

Of 12,000 fines levied against employers for hiring illegal aliens since

the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act took effect in 1987, less than 2

percent-- and perhaps not more than a handful-- have been against individuals
employing baby sitters, according to the immigration service.

"We know it's around, but it's not something we investigate on a regular

basis," said immigration spokesman Richard Kenney.

Maggio, who has worked as an immigration lawyer for 15 years, said a

shortage of qualified live-in baby sitters and adequate day care facilities

has forced many parents to tap into a vast network of unregistered aliens.

When they do, Maggio said, they confront a dilemma. They can either employ them
off the books-- as Baird did-- or they can begin a lengthy process of

byzantine complexity to apply to employ them legally.

When Congress reduced the number of "green cards" available each year to

household workers to 10,000 from 27,000 in 1990, it created a waiting list for
approval that now runs 15 to 20 years, he said.

"Hopefully this whole Zoe Baird situation will raise congressional and

public awareness about how our immigration laws and the related tax laws need to
comport with reality," Maggio said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG/BAIRD, ZOE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 1, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN REFUGEES START HUNGER STRIKE

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 221 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Nearly 300 Haitians stranded at the U.S. Naval base at Guantanamo Bay,

Cuba, most of them HIV-infected, have started a hunger strike and intend to

fast until they are admitted to the United States, their leader and a lawyer

said Sunday.

The 268 refugees--expect President Clinton to follow through on a

campaign pledge and act to allow them to immigrate, said Michael Ratner, a

lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York.

His civil rights group is working to win asylum for them in the United

States.

State Department officials were not immediately available for comment.

During last year's campaign, Clinton promised that if elected he would

end AIDS-related immigration and travel restrictions. He also promised to give
temporary asylum to Haitian political refugees.

The U.S. government has determined they are political refugees but

federal regulations prevent people infected with HIV from entering the United
States, he said.

Michel Vilsaint, 28, the leader of the group, said that 100 men started

the hunger strike Thursday and the rest joined in Friday.

Vilsaint said they had all applied for political asylum months ago.

"Nobody has told us we cannot have political asylum, but we are still

waiting," he said.

"We will continue the hunger strike until there is a declaration" that

they can enter the United States, he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 11, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

REFUGEE CAMP `A DISGRACE,' DOCTORS SAY

BYLINE: The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Unless the Clinton administration acts to end a 13-day-old hunger strike

among HIV-positive Haitians held at the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo, Cuba,

deaths may occur within days, two American doctors said Wednesday.

The physicians, after several days on the island, described conditions for the
267 refugees at the camp on Cuba's eastern tip as "a medical and public

health outrage."

They cited unsanitary toilet facilities, a lack of adequate running water and
leaky barracks in a prison-like camp they called "a disgrace."

All of the refugees at Guantanamo have plausible claims to political

asylum but are barred from the United States by a 1987 ban on any immigrant

who tests positive for the virus which causes AIDS.

About 200 of the refugees, on a hunger strike since Jan. 29, vowed

Wednesday to maintain their fast despite President Clinton's pledge to soon

drop the exclusion of HIV-infected immigrants.

The Haitians held at Guantanamo are among more than 36,000 people who fled their
homeland in wooden boats after the 1991 military coup which ousted

President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Douglas Shenson, a professor of medicine at the Montefiore Medical Center in New
York, compared the camp unfavorably to one built 100 years ago to house lepers
in Louisiana.

Shenson, with Haitian-born doctor Jean Ford, a pulmonary specialist,

visited Guantanamo this week as representatives of Doctors of the World, a

humanitarian medical assistance group.

In Haiti, a pact to allow human rights observers into the nation came

under attack Wednesday.

Rightist politician Hubert de Ronceray called Tuesday's U.N.-brokered

agreement "illegal and senseless" and said Haiti's army-backed Prime

Minister Marc Bazin had no right to sign it.

Aristide's backers said the compromise undercuts the observers' power and would
prolong the rule of the army and the conservative elite.

The first 40 U.N. observers, including 15 Americans, are expected to

arrive by Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           February 11, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MEETING BRINGS IMMIGRANT RESOURCES TOGETHER FOR GUATEMALANS

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHIFREL, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH


A group of Guatemalans who say they are caught in an Immigration and

Naturalization Service foul-up met Wednesday night to discuss the problem with
farmworkers, legal services representatives and others.

The meeting was the first of its kind involving more than a dozen

immigrant service organizations in Palm Beach County. It was aimed at

explaining services and rights to the three dozen farmworkers who attended.

"It was a good start," said Margaret Hennessy, an attorney for Florida

Rural Legal Services, who helped organize the meeting at Our Lady Queen of

Peace Church in western Delray Beach.

Hennessy and other organizers said they hope to continue meeting with

farmworkers to share information and help coordinate action.

The groups, including The Soup Kitchen in Boynton Beach and the county

School Board, had been meeting for several months but this was the first time
they invited the people they are trying to help.

"I'm surprised at the number of farmworkers who came," Hennessy said.

Not all the discussion was about the INS.

The social service agency representatives told farmworkers where to go if they
needed emergency rent money, food or help with their landlord. They also told
about English classes and vocational training.

But the INS problem that brought the most discussion involved lost asylum
applications.

INS has told 50 to 100 Guatemalans to reapply for asylum rather than ask for
extensions of their original cases, said Jeronimo Camposeco, a Guatemalan with
Florida Rural Legal Services.

Workers were told their applications were not loaded into a new automated
computer system in Riviera Beach and the originals are in Miami, he said.

Some have already received 30-day notices to leave the country and there may be
thousands more who have not complained or don't understand the problem,
Camposeco said.

"They are saying they can't find files even though (the farmworkers) have a card
that says they have a case pending," said Tim Jafek of the Guatemalan

Center in Lake Worth.

Reapplying can cause workers to lose some benefits they would be eligible for,
he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 12, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEWEST HUDDLED MASSES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 364 words


From a public health standpoint, President Clinton is right to fulfill a

campaign promise to lift the ban on HIV-infected people entering the United

States. But doing so will unfairly increase the burden on South Florida's

public health clinics.

For example, 266 HIV-positive Haitian political refugees are being held at the
Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba. Conservative estimates place at $50,000 to
$75,000 the lifetime cost to care for someone who develops AIDS. What if all

those refugees settle in South Florida? Who will pay? If some come to Palm

Beach County, they'll further strain the Palm Beach County Health Care

District's budget. Who will pay for this federal decision that affects a local
government?

State Health Officer Charles Mahan says we can't prohibit discrimination

against HIV-infected people in the workplace but permit it in our immigration
policy. He adds that health workers who treat people with AIDS are so opposed to
such discrimination that they will accept higher workloads.

But with acquired immune deficiency syndrome, health and money are

separate issues. AIDS is not spread by casual contact. The 1987 ban on HIV-

infected people, urged by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., was more political than

medical. Health officials were directed by the Immigration Act of 1990 to

review the automatic rejection of people with the AIDS virus and other

sexually transmitted diseases. They concluded that only one contagious

disease, tuberculosis, should keep people from entering the country because TB
is spread by casual contact. Of the annual 260 million visitors and immigrants
to the U.S., only a small percentage are estimated to have HIV. About 1

million Americans-- roughly one in 250-- are infected.

The money question is something else. While the U.S. admits people with

even more expensive problems, such as cancer and chronic kidney disease, the

only money Florida gets for AIDS from the federal government is for drugs. The
rest is paid from Florida's general revenue budget or Medicaid, the federal-

state health program for poor people. President Clinton has said he

realizes Florida may suffer from lifting the ban. But we want money, not

sympathy. Otherwise, don't lift the ban.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Editorial / Ran all editions

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 3, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TURNABOUT ON HAITIANS UNFAIR PLAY BY CLINTON

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 425 words


Forty thousand immigrants are poised to flood into the United States. No,

they're not the 40,000 Haitians who have fled that country's repression since a
coup in 1991. They're the 40,000 lucky winners in a visa lottery that opened
this week.

Residents of 37 foreign countries who want U.S. residency permits can

enter the lottery. The hopefuls don't have to prove their lives are in danger.
They don't have to prove they're economically deprived. They don't have to be
trying to escape dictatorships. The only real requirement is a wish to come to
America. Most will come from European democracies. And, thanks to the clout of
Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., the largest number-- 16,000-- will come from

Ireland.

The lottery started accepting applications on Tuesday. Also Tuesday, in an
embarrassing contrast, Clinton administration lawyers were at the Supreme

Court asking the justices to uphold the Bush administration's policy of

forcibly returning to their country Haitians picked up at sea. The Haitians

are returned without being interviewed to see whether they have a plausible

claim for political asylum.

This is the same policy that, when it was begun last May, "appalled"

candidate Bill Clinton, who correctly denounced it as being immoral. Because

of that moral dimension, President Clinton's reversal on Haiti is the most

grotesque of his flip-flops. He even has gone so far as to place a blockade

around Haiti to keep refugees in.

To mitigate that decision, President Clinton promised to expand

opportunities for Haitians to apply for asylum at offices inside Haiti. So

far, according to The New York Times, that hasn't happened. The only place in
Port-au-Prince where applicants can seek asylum is intimidatingly close to the
national police headquarters.

Clearly, the Clinton administration needs to interview people picked up at sea.
Nearly a fourth of those intercepted before the no-interview policy began were
found to have plausible cases for asylum. But that would be a short-term
solution. U.S. Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., has a better idea. "A date certain
for the return of President (Jean-Bertrand) Aristide should be set," Rep.

Conyers said Monday, "preferably within 60 to 90 days." Returning President

Aristide-- by force, if necessary -- is the only long-term solution to the

refugee problem.

With their escape routes blockaded and their appeals denied, even a

lottery would offer Haitian refugees a better chance than they get now. But

they're losers there, too. The list of countries eligible for the State

Department lottery doesn't include Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  EDITORIAL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 4, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GREEN CARD RENEWAL RULE WAIVED;
IMMIGRATION SERVICE WON'T REFUND $70 FEE

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 254 words


The immigration service has dropped an unpopular requirement that all

permanent residents who received their "green cards" before 1978 renew the

cards and pay a $70 processing fee.

There are no plans to refund money to those who have already received the
updated green cards, officials of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Services said Tuesday.

"They have a new and better card," said INS spokesman Duke Austin. He

said he did not know how many of the 1.5 million immigrants that had been

required to renew their cards have done so.

The immigrants were told they had until Aug. 2 to renew the cards.

An INS notice issued to the Riviera Beach INS office said the new cards

will continue to be issued to immigrants who ask for them, but on a voluntary
basis.

The INS suspended the requirement after a review of lawsuits raised doubts that
the program went through the proper reviews before the U.S. attorney

general started it last summer.

"I guess the burdens it created outweighed the benefits to the

government," said Gene Devore, a West Palm Beach immigration attorney. "I

understand why the program was implemented, but it was burdensome."

Besides the fee, applicants were required to submit two photographs and a
fingerprint.

Austin said the old green cards could be easily altered and used

fraudulently. But many holders of the older cards protested that they are

longtime residents of the United States and were unlikely to commit fraud.

Immigrants need the green cards for employment and to reenter the country after
trips abroad.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 22, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOLDBERG DOUBTING HER SHOW'S RENEWAL

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire and Staff Reports

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 284 words


Whoopi Goldberg is telling friends, even whole conventions, her nightly

talk show may not be back this fall, but syndicator Genesis hopes it will

continue.

Goldberg, before the National Association of Theater Owners/ShoWest in

Las Vegas, said, "My show is probably going to die. It's going to go

elegantly as it came in."

Genesis executive Doug Friedman called her comment "unfortunate" and

said a decision to renew or not will be made after the May sweeps.

Remember, it was Goldberg who abruptly called an end to CBS' Bagdad Cafe sitcom,
so as not to prolong its low-rated agony.

Brokaw looks at immigration . . . Tom Brokaw's special Brokaw Report

(March 28) is "Immigration-- The Good, The Bad, The Illegal."

With the recent derailment of the Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood nominations for
attorney general as a kicking-off point, the program will focus on how swamped
the Immigration and Naturalization Service is by illegal aliens at our

airports, seacoasts and the Mexican border.

INS agents show the latest illegal entry scams, and report on the impact

of immigrants on neighborhoods such as New York's Washington Heights and

Iowa's Storm Lake.

No secrets here . . . The new NBC game show Family Secrets hosted by Bob

Eubanks will not be carried by West Palm Beach affiliate WPTV-Channel 5. The

reason is an already crowded day schedule. The new game show, taped at Walt

Disney/MGM Studios in Orlando, will begin airing 10-10:30 a.m. today on

Miami's WTVJ-Channel 4. The game show is scheduled Monday through Friday.

The game is described by NBC publicity as "featuring two families who

compete against each other to see which family really knows itself the best,"
which sounds similar to Eubank's previous hit, The Newlywed Game.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  TV TODAY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (MUG / GOLDBERG, WHOOPI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             March 23, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS POUR INTO SOUTH DADE

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE O'CONNOR, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD


When Luis Mejia left the Guatemalan enclave in the central Florida

community of Indiantown, he hoped the intense demand for labor to rebuild

South Florida in the wake of devastating Hurricane Andrew would mean a change
from his usual lot of backbreaking work, low pay and substandard living

conditions.

It did. Things are much worse now for the 18-year-old Mayan Indian from

Tacama, a Guatemalan mountain town near the border with Mexico.

Low-income housing, which was often expensive for the 20,000 workers who

plant and harvest throughout the winter vegetable farm belt between Miami and
the Florida Keys, is now extremely scarce. Not everyone can find work, and

abuses by fly-by-night labor contractors have reportedly multiplied. So has

crime.

CRACKDOWN ON WORKERS

Agents of the Border Patrol, part of the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service, are engaged in a three-week-old crackdown on

undocumented workers that they had suspended in the wake of the hurricane so

that no one would be afraid to come forward and seek aid. Still, workers are

pouring into South Florida, from immigrant communities elsewhere in the state
and as far away as Texas and California, immigrant rights advocates say.

"We tried to slow it down," said Jack Leonard, whose home here hosts the

Mayan American Community Council, a group that represents Guatemalan Indians. He
added that his group had even called employers in the Carolinas and as far north
as New York to ask them to discourage workers from coming down.

The Guatemalan Indian community in the Homestead area dropped from 3,500

to 1,000 after Hurricane Andrew decimated the nurseries and farmlands they

tilled, Leonard said.

STEADY FLOW OF IMMIGRANTS

Planting was held up until December, and since then a steady flow of up to seven
Guatemalans a day has arrived, many of them directed to Florida by

cross-border smugglers, or coyotes, who charge the travelers up to $1,500 to

get them across the Mexican border into the United States and frequently refer
them to often-abusive labor contractors, he said.

Mejia and 42 other Guatemalans share three small trailers in the back yard of
the council. Most earn between $4 and $5 an hour in the fields, before

taxes.

"There are no apartments. If there were, we'd be in one," said Mejia,

who speaks Mam, one of the most common of the 40-odd Mayan languages. Mejia

said he fled his homeland a year ago after pressure to join leftist

guerrillas. He came to the Homestead area in December and is applying for

asylum.

Labor problems have multiplied, with advocates receiving complaints about
everything from agricultural contractors who pocket social security payments

to roofers who make migrants work for weeks and then refuse to pay them.

Undocumented workers have even less hope of recourse.

"Those types of problems were exacerbated after the hurricane," said

Lisa Levine, the director of the South Dade Immigration Association, a private
group located here.

So were many others.

GLUT AT HARVEST TIME

The late start in the growing season meant that some vegetables, such as

tomatoes, will be harvested at the same time as those in central Florida and

Mexico, driving the price down and making farmers question the wisdom of

paying workers to harvest them at all, she said. Pay is hovering closer to

minimum wage and many people have come to her complaining they can't find work
at all, she said.

State attempts to provide housing for the migrants failed to take into

account the fact that most incoming workers-- typically Central Americans and
Haitians -- are single males, Levine said. All but a fraction of the trailer

housing is for workers with families, many of whom are Mexicans who have

worked South Dade fields for years.

"A Haitian guy just came into my office at seven o'clock tonight and said he
didn't know where he was going to sleep," she said this past week.

"Agriculture is the basis for the economic system down here and you don't

have produce without healthy workers."

Levine said she has complained to the Justice Department about the Border Patrol
crackdown. She also complained to Housing and Urban Development

Secretary Henry Cisneros during his recent tour of the disaster area. Border

Patrol officials did not respond to requests for comment.

"The Border Patrol is stalking the main streets of Homestead and picking

people up," Levine charged. "I think it's outrageous for them to start this

while we're still in the recovery phase."

Even documented workers say they worry about being caught without their

work papers.

"They grab people and take them away," said Francisco Tomas, a 42-year-

old Kanjobal Mayan who shares two cramped rooms with his wife, another

couple, and 10 children. They pay $500 a month in rent. "It makes one

tremble. To stay out of trouble, I don't go out at night."

One Federal Emergency Management Agency official in the Homestead area

said the crackdown was a violation of an informal promise by the Border Patrol
to refrain from such activity until the hurricane relief application period

ends March 20.

Local FEMA spokesman Len DeCarlo said there was no specific agreement with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service except to ban INS signs or the

agency's presence in relief offices.

"Our policy is not to turn over the names of undocumented workers to the

INS," he said. "We did not want them to take advantage of a situation where

migrants register for humanitarian aid and are snatched up. We're trying to

run a humanitarian program."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 GRETCHEN KIRWAN/Staff Photographer Guatemalan workers clean up in the kitchen
of the Mayan Central American Community Council house in Homestead. (Left to
right) Santos Chay, Julio Chay, Domingo Andres and Pascual Francisco.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            March 24, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WASHINGTON ON TUESDAY

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 309 words


* THE U.S. SUPREME COURT made it harder to sue foreign nations in U.S.

courts as it killed the lawsuit of an American who says he was imprisoned and
tortured for criticizing the Saudi Arabian hospital where he worked. The 6-3

decision said a 1976 federal law that generally protects foreign governments

from being sued in this country requires dismissal of the diplomatically

sensitive case. In a separate ruling, the court said federal immigration

officials routinely may lock up immigrant children awaiting deportation

hearings if there is no adult relative or legal guardian to take them.

* A BILL to make attacks on women's clinics and their staffs a federal crime was
introduced by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. Kennedy said the bill is in

response to increased violence against clinics where abortions are performed

across the country, including the murder of Dr. David Gunn at a clinic in

Pensacola.

* PRESIDENT Clinton nominated wealthy socialite and Democratic fund-raiser

Pamela Harriman to be ambassador to France.

* THE CLINTON administration, without explanation, has declined to appeal a

court decision throwing out or weakening the government's occupational air

quality standards for nearly 400 hazardous substances. The government's

decision means it either has no standards for exposure to some toxic

materials or must rely on weaker regulations set voluntarily in 1968 by the

industries being regulated.

* NEARLY 4,200 teenagers were killed by firearms in 1990, more than ever

before, the government reported. Only motor vehicle accidents kill more teens
and young adults, the National Center for Health Statistics reported. One in

every four deaths among those 15 to 24 in 1990 was a firearms fatality.

* PRESIDENT Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno separately denied reports
that a decision has been made to replace beleaguered FBI Director William

Sessions.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              April 9, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

31 HAITIANS ARRIVE FROM GUANTANAMO

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Thirty-one Haitians arrived here Thursday, the second group of refugees

released from the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, after months in

limbo because of HIV infections.

An Air Force C-130 transport landed at Miami International Airport at 10

a.m. with the 31, including two children, said Mario Ortiz, a spokesman with

the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"Of the 31, 23 are going to New York, eight are staying in Florida,"

Ortiz said.

They will be processed by the Immigration Service and will be allowed to

pursue asylum claims.

It was the second group of Haitians flown to the United States since

federal Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. ruled March 26 in New York that the United
States has to provide proper medical treatment at Guantanamo or send them to

where they can get it.

The first group of 20 was flown to Miami on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 28, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TIDE OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE USE RISES;
FOR 31.8 MILLION, ENGLISH IS A SECOND LANGUAGE

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of U.S. residents for whom English is a foreign tongue jumped by more
than a third to 31.8 million in the 1980s, due largely to a wave of

immigration from Latin America, Asia and Europe, according to a Census Bureau
report.

Using data collected during the 1990 census, the bureau determined that

about 14 percent of all residents, or one person in seven among the nation's

230 million people over the age of 5, grew up or are growing up speaking a

language other than English.

One in six Floridians speaks a language other than English at home, an

increase of 73 percent in the decade, the figures showed.

The most-spoken language in Florida, besides English, is Spanish with more than
1.4 million speakers, of which 29.5 percent don't speak English

proficiently. The second language in Florida is French at 110,000 and then

creole, both spoken by immigrants from Haiti.

Nationally, the 38.1 percent jump in speakers of a foreign language, from 23
million in 1980, was due largely to Hispanic immigration. In 1990, the

nation's 17.3 million Spanish speakers far outnumbered all other speakers of a
foreign language in the United States. Spanish speakers now account for more

than half of all people whose first language is not English, according to

census data.

More than three in four of people whom the Census Bureau counted as

speakers of a foreign language also speak English "well" or "very well,"

by their own estimation.

In addition to Spanish speakers, who represented 7.5 percent of the

population over the age of 5, another 3.9 percent of the nation's residents

spoke one of nine other languages at home, according to the census bureau. In
this group, speakers of only one other European language increased in number

between 1980 and 1990, that language being French, whose 1.7 million speakers
made it more popular than any non-English language other than Spanish.

The rapid change in the nation's language and culture, already evident

from raw census data showing that the wave of immigration in the 1980s was the
highest in 70 years, was also reflected in the decline of German and Italian

speakers, who dropped 4 percent and 20 percent, respectively.

At the same time, there was a sharp increase in the number of speakers of Asian
languages like Chinese (98 percent), Korean (127 percent) and Tagalog,

the main language of the Philippines (87 percent).

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: CHART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 8, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LOTTERY SCAM DRIVES IMMIGRANT TO SUICIDE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: HIALEAH


Two con men with a phony lottery ticket cheated Ceferino Cruz of the $7,000 he
saved from a life of working in the fields and building cabinets, and the

elderly immigrant died of his shame.

Police say the suicide of the 81-year-old man should be a warning to South
Florida's large elderly and immigrant population, often easy prey for scams

ranging from three-card monte to people offering to lift voodoo hexes.

"Leave me alone!" were Cruz's last words to a rescuer trying to pull him

from his car as it sank into the canal he drove into Tuesday.

"He felt he had been taken," said Hialeah homicide Detective Kelly

Trujillo.

Nestor Cruz, 51, said his father and mother had painstakingly saved their money
from minimum-wage and part-time jobs they worked since fleeing Cuba in

1964.

The con that ended Cruz's life began like many others police have

described.

The con agents usually buy a ticket with the previous drawing's winning

numbers, then alter the date. They approach a likely victim-- often elderly

Hispanics-- and say they can't cash the ticket because they are illegal

immigrants. But if the person will pay $1,000 to $9,000 in good-faith money,

they say they'll hand over the ticket or split the winnings.

Ceferino Cruz was approached at a shopping plaza by a man who told him an
illegal Guatemalan immigrant woman had a winning Lotto ticket she was afraid

to cash. She was desperate to return home, and if Cruz had some cash, perhaps
the men could buy the ticket from her.

"We've got to help the poor woman," he later told his wife.

Despite his wife's doubts, Cruz took the con man to the bank. He came home
distraught.

"He said, `Everything we had is gone-- every cent is gone,' " the son

said. "He said, `I know what I have to do.' "

When the wife returned a half-hour later, she found a note written in

Spanish on the fence in front of their home. Look for me in the canal, it

said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS......Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             May 27, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DETAINED HAITIANS ASKING `WHY?'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, CUBA


Many of the 169 HIV-infected Haitians held by the U.S. military in a rat-

infested compound said Wednesday they constantly ask themselves why they

are still being held.

"I want to know how many people in the Unites States that are HIV

positive live in the situation we are in," Carl Destin, 24, said while

standing in front of about 50 makeshift plywood barracks. "We don't know when we
are leaving, and we don't know why we are here."

The Haitians fled their politically unstable homeland by boat, were

intercepted at sea and have been held at the base for more than 18 months

because of a U.S. immigration policy banning the entry of HIV-positive

immigrants.

Jean Maxo, 32, who has 3- and 5-year-old sons with him in the camp,

expressed his sentiments on the walls of the barracks with his weekly ration

of shaving cream: "Release us because we need freedom," and "Bulkeley

-- Hell for Haitian refugees."

Bulkeley is the name of the compound housing 169 Haitians: 146 are HIV

positive and 19 are children. Thousands of refugees who passed through the

camp were returned to Haiti, but those still left have valid political asylum
claims.

"As much as we can, we try to improve the quality of life for these

Haitians," said Air Force Col. N.E. Paulson, head of the joint task force

operating the camp. He noted in a rare authorized visit by reporters that

recreational and physical fitness activities are available.

But the Haitians say their lives are not being enriched by detention.

"I'm in the middle of a valley of depression," said Christa Mucles, 32,

mother an 11-year-old boy and 5-year-old girl in camp. "I've been here 18

months, and the only things I see are mountains and hills."

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has offered her two

children passage to the United States, but she has refused to be separated

from them.

Juan Gomez, an attorney representing the Haitians, said the U.S.

government should shut down the camp.

"It doesn't make sense to continue imprisoning these people," he said.

"We're just letting people sit there and die."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS......Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 5, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AIR STOWAWAY SURVIVES IN WHEEL WELL

BYLINE: By JOHN FERNANDEZ, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Thirteen-year-old Guillermo Rosales beat virtually insurmountable odds and

survived Friday after stowing away in the wheel well of a Colombian jet during a
three-hour flight.

Wearing shorts, a T-shirt and a windbreaker jacket, he survived

temperatures of 20 to 30 degrees below zero at 35,000 feet over the Caribbean.
He also narrowly missed being crushed by the plane's wheels after take-

off. His saving grace: The wheel well was pressurized, and he managed to

breathe despite a lack of oxygen at high altitude.

The boy was very, very lucky, said stunned employees of Arca, an air cargo
company, at Miami International Airport.

"What amazes me about the whole thing is that the guy should have died,"

said Arca mechanic Richard Ungerer.

The boy told airline workers in Miami that he is an orphan and wanted to

come to Miami to live with an aunt.

At 2 a.m., Guillermo was unconscious when he tumbled out of the DC-8

"looking like a ball of snow," airport workers said. The boy held on to

cables while the flight from Bogota landed.

Guillermo was in good condition after a short visit to a hospital near the
airport, said George Waldroup, spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service, which took custody of the boy.

Stowaways normally are sent back home immediately, but immigration

officials made an exception in Guillermo's case because of his age and the

likelihood he has a relative in this country.

Immigration officials kept the boy at the airport Friday while they tried to
contact the aunt he claims lives in Miami. The Colombian-born boy also may have
relatives in Venezuela, Waldroup said.

Guillermo arrived on a flight carrying flowers. The boy had done odd jobs for
the airline in Bogota and managed to sneak into the well Thursday night.

"He's a nice, quiet kid," said Irving Theodore, Arca security chief.

"He told me he prayed and prayed and that his mother and father kept him

alive."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 9, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STOWING AWAY JUSTICE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 198 words


It's a story you expect to see next as a made-for-television movie.

Thirteen-year-old Colombian orphan hides in the wheel well of a jet and is

flown from Cali to Miami. Jubilant Colombians in Dade County take in the boy,
and everyone lives happily ever after.

Except . . .

Airline and immigration officials say his story can't be true, that anyone who
tried to ride in the wheel well during the 31/2-hour flight would either

suffocate from the lack of pressure or freeze to death. The only possible

explanation seems to be that Guillermo Rosales was inside the plane, meaning

someone helped him make the trip.

The boy's future is uncertain. But while he waits, he has been taken in by the
family of William Lozano, the suspended Miami police officer recently

acquitted on manslaughter charges. He has eaten at a McDonald's. He is

enjoying himself in the United States.

And he is an illegal alien. He has demonstrated no "well-founded fear of

persecution." But luckily for him, he is not Haitian. If he were, he would be in
the Krome Detention Center. Guillermo Rosales is not a hero. Neither are

the men and women, including President Clinton, who enforce the double

standards in U.S. immigration policy.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            June 16, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHILES ASKS FOR HELP WITH HAITIANS

BYLINE: By AMY DRISCOLL, Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Gov. Lawton Chiles, worried that Florida will be stuck with the bills for

Haitian refugees allowed to enter the United States, requested federal

emergency immigration money Tuesday.

Chiles, who is on vacation until Monday, sent letters to President

Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno asking that the federal government

acknowledge its financial responsibility for the 142 refugees who had been

held at Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba.

Florida's social service agencies already are strained by the continual

influx of refugees combined with the needs from Hurricane Andrew, Chiles

wrote.

The June 8 decision by Judge Sterling Johnson of the Federal District

Court in Brooklyn to permit the refugees asylum will push the state beyond its
capability, he wrote.

"The unprecedented ravages of Hurricane Andrew have left (Florida)

struggling to provide for an expanded needy population. It is my belief that

the combination of state and local agencies could not respond to the immediate
and long-term demands of a new refugee influx," he wrote to Clinton.

In his letter to Reno, he also pointed out that the Haitians-- the first 27 were
released Monday-- will have greater needs than most refugees, because they are
infected with the virus that causes AIDS.

"As you are well aware, these particular asylum applicants are in need

of critical, long-term health care, and the provision of that care has never

been discussed with the state, which I assume will be the preliminary provider
for these needy persons," he wrote to Reno. "However, the state cannot

afford to shoulder the costs for their health care or other related costs."

The governor's letters are not indicative of a new policy, but are simply a
reinforcement of Chiles' position on refugee costs, said spokesman Ron

Sachs.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS. Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              June 20, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COLOMBIA SAYS STOWAWAY LIED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A teenager who reached the United States by stowing away on a cargo flight

lied about his name and age and isn't an orphan, Colombian officials say.

DAS, Colombia's security agency, notified U.S. immigration officials

Friday that the boy who claimed to be a 13-year-old orphan named Guillermo

Rosales is Juan Carlos Guzman Betancur and will turn 17 next weekend.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service on Monday agreed to let the boy stay
in the United States for 30 days under temporary asylum to review his

case.

Confronted with the Colombia report, the boy said he lied because he

feared deportation.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             June 22, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COURT: U.S. CAN REPATRIATE HAITIANS AT SEA

BYLINE: By BOB DART, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court ruled Monday that the Clinton administration can continue to
stop Haitian "boat people" in international waters and send them back to

their troubled island home without a hearing.

On an 8-1 vote, the justices said the policy of intercepting Haitians on

the high seas-- begun by then-President George Bush and continued by President
Clinton-- does not break international treaties or federal immigration law.

"We are not persuaded that either one places any limit on the president's

authority to repatriate aliens interdicted beyond the territorial seas of the
United States," wrote Justice John Paul Stevens in the majority opinion.

In a solitary dissent, Justice Harry Blackmun said a United Nations treaty and a
1952 federal immigrations law plainly protected political refugees from being
returned to face persecution or physical danger.

"The terms are unambiguous," wrote Blackmun. "Vulnerable refugees shall

not be returned.

"They demand only that the United States, land of refugees and guardian

of freedom, cease forcibly driving them back to detention, abuse and death.

That is a modest plea," wrote Blackmun. "We should not close our ears to

it."

The decision was also denounced as "deplorable" by advocates for

refugees. They urged Clinton to change his policy.

"Declaring such a policy legal does not mean that it is right," said

Arthur Helton, director of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for

Human Rights. "The administration should act immediately to provide asylum to
those boat people who fear persecution."

As a presidential candidate last year, Clinton called the policy "cruel"

and "illegal." But he announced Jan. 14 that even though he believed the

policy should be changed, he was continuing it because "I fear that boat

departures in the near future would result in further tragic losses of life."
Bush began the repatriation policy in May 1992, eight months after the

military overthrow of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the impoverished

Caribbean nation's first democratically elected leader.

Previously, many Haitians claiming political persecution had received

hearings at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

But when nearly 40,000 "boat people" began to overwhelm the facilities

at Guantanamo and strain public resources throughout South Florida, Bush

ordered the Coast Guard to stop the boats 13 miles from Haiti's shores.

The policy was challenged in federal court. It was upheld at the district level,
but was ruled illegal by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which

said the refugees must be given asylum hearings.

The Supreme Court first stayed the order, allowing the interceptions to

continue, and then upheld the administration policy with Monday's ruling.

In Delray Beach, Damus Pierre, who fled Haiti by boat in early 1992, said the
U.S. government should not turn back Haitians on the high seas until a

democratic government is installed in the country.

"They have to fix Haiti before they send them back, to fix the

democracy," said Pierre, 26. The accounting student spent 15 months in

detention at Guantanamo Bay before his release last month.

Daniella Henry, office coordinator with the Haitian American Community

Council in Delray Beach, said Haitians would not flee the country if order is
restored.

"The people are afraid to live there," Henry said, adding that most

Haitians are expecting a solution from Clinton.

When he continued the Bush Administration's policy of repatriation,

Clinton ordered U.S. consular officers in Haiti to step up political asylum

hearings in Haiti.

But Henry said while some Haitians have been granted asylum through the

process, democracy is the best answer.

THE RULING

* U.S. POLICY of intercepting Haitians on the high seas does not break

international treaties or federal law, the justices rule.

THE DISSENT

* JUSTICE Harry Blackmun says the law plainly protects political refugees.

Theirs is a `modest plea,' and `We should not close our ears to it,' Blackmun
says.

THE REACTION

* ADVOCATES of human rights call the ruling deplorable. `Declaring such a

policy legal does not mean that it is right,' one says.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box attached. Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 2, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO TAKE RADICAL ISLAMIC CLERIC INTO CUSTODY

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department has decided to take into custody the radical Islamic
cleric whose followers have been charged in a terrorist conspiracy and the

World Trade Center bombing, federal law enforcement sources said Thursday

night.

The sources said the department has decided to take the action by revoking the
immigration parole status of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman.

The sheik wasn't being charged in the alleged bombing and assassination

conspiracy that was broken up a week ago.

Abdel-Rahman, 55, was ordered deported in March for gaining admission to

the United States on false pretenses. Although he is appealing the order,

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials have said the sheik could be
detained at any time for posing a threat to society.

Meanwhile, prosecutors in New York charged Thursday that Mohammad Saleh, a
suspect in the plot to bomb the United Nations and other major New York

targets, claimed that he had contacts with Hamas, a radical Palestinian group,
during a secretly recorded conversation in which he allegedly was recruited

for the scheme.

The reference to Hamas is the first public report of a possible link

between the plotters and any organized international group. But in response to
questioning from U.S. Magistrate James Francis, prosecutors stressed that they
were not accusing Hamas of any involvement in the plot at this time.

In Jersey City, N.J., a building superintendent refused to let reporters

inside the five-story apartment building where Abdel-Rahman lives, and it

wasn't known if he was there.

Meanwhile, a prosecutor said that the plotters arrested a week ago had

considered planting a bomb on the George Washington Bridge.

The bridge linking Upper Manhattan with Fort Lee, N.J., was discussed as a
possible target of the terrorist plot during a meeting between two suspects

and a confidential informant, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Khuzami.

Portions of the secretly taped conversation were disclosed Thursday at a

bail hearing in Manhattan federal court for defendant Mohammed Saleh.

Saleh, 37, a Yonkers gas station operator, also indicated he had

connections both with the Palestinian terrorist group Hamas and hit men, the

prosecutor said.

U.S. Magistrate James Francis denied bail for Saleh, who is accused of

providing fuel oil for making bombs.

In a separate hearing Thursday, Francis also ordered defendants Tarig

Elhassan, 38, a Sudanese cab driver from Manhattan, and Fares Khallafalla, 31, a
Sudanese immigrant from Jersey City, N.J., held without bail.

A fourth hearing for defendant Clement Rodney Hampton-El, 55, a prominent member
of Brooklyn's Muslim community, was interrupted when Francis asked for a
transcript of another taped discussion that prosecutors claim link him to

the plot.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 3, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MUSLIM CLERIC SURRENDERS AFTER 20-HOUR STANDOFF

BYLINE: The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


After a tense 20-hour standoff, Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, the fiery Islamic

cleric whose followers have been arrested in the World Trade Center bombing

and alleged plots to blow up the United Nations and other New York landmarks,
walked out of a Brooklyn mosque Friday evening and into the arms of federal

immigration agents.

The controversial religious leader emerged surrounded by cheering

supporters who chanted "God is great!" He walked across a police line and

away from the jeers of angry Hasidic Jews yelling "Go to Hell!" and "Drop

dead!"

FBI and immigration agents directed the politically sensitive operation

from a command post set up in a nearby fire house, where the sheik was taken

into custody.

A police spokesman said the cleric, dressed in white robes and red cap,

was taken to a federal facility in Otisville, N.Y., about 75 miles northwest

of Manhattan.

The cleric's arrest-- for violating U.S. immigration laws and not in

connection with terrorist acts in New York-- brought to a close an intense

debate here and in Washington over how to treat the 55-year-old blind and

diabetic sheik. Some have argued that his presence and preachings in this

country have fueled violence; others have countered that he is being

politically persecuted.

Abdel-Rahman is appealing a decision to deport him based on evidence that he
entered the United States illegally in 1991. He was ordered deported in

March because he lied on immigration papers by failing to disclose that he was a
bigamist and had been convicted in Egypt of check fraud.

On Thursday, the Clinton administration decided to take the sheik into

custody while his appeal to remain in the United States is pending. Federal

sources said the decision was made after it appeared that he tried to evade

government surveillance on Wednesday night in a van that was making evasive

maneuvers.

Throughout most of the day Friday, it seemed as though the cleric,

ensconced inside the Abu Bakr Mosque with hundreds of his followers, was not

coming out-- except on his own terms. Inside the mosque, he held services and
gave a goodbye speech that left many of his followers in tears.

According to government officials and sources close to Abdel-Rahman, he

vehemently insisted that he be allowed to travel to Newark, N.J., and

surrender to authorities in his home state. But federal agents wanted him to

leave the mosque and report directly to an INS facility in New York.

The sheik's lawyers met with government officials throughout the day,

until Michael Warren, one of his attorneys, announced at 6 p.m. that a

compromise had been reached.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C AP)
 Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman leaves a New York mosque Friday to turn  himself in.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 4, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

VIOLENCE FEARED IN RESPONSE TO SHEIK'S JAILING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Authorities braced for the possibility that Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman's

imprisonment could trigger a violent backlash by angry followers.

He surrendered to U.S. Immigration and Naturalization officials at a

mosque Friday and was taken to a maximum-security lockup 75 miles northwest of
the city.

INS officials didn't indicate how long the 55-year-old Abdel-Rahman might remain
there or how quickly his deportation case might be processed.

In a surprise move, an Egyptian judge on Saturday issued an arrest order

for Abdel-Rahman-- prompting speculation that Cairo was preparing to seek his
extradition from the United States. Chief Judge Ahmed Ezzedine el-Ashmawy was
retrying the blind sheik in absentia -- along with 48 others-- for

participating in an anti-government riot there in 1989. They were acquitted in
the first trial.

Egypt and the United States have an extradition treaty, but President

Hosni Mubarak's government has been described as reluctant to risk returning

the sheik, who has been blamed for inciting violence against government

officials and tourists.

Friday's detention was ordered by U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno after

weeks of government uncertainty about how to deal with Abdel-Rahman, who was

linked to suspects in the World Trade Center bombing and in the plot to blow

up the United Nations building, a federal building, two tunnels and a bridge.
Abdel-Rahman has not been charged in any terrorist plot, but the Justice

Department said it was revoking his status as a permanent resident alien on

grounds he posed a "danger to the community" and might flee.

He entered the United States illegally in July 1990, despite being on a

"watch list" of undesirables and was able to come and go several times

since because of what officials called bureaucratic blunders.

Despite the reasons the Justice Department cited for picking up the sheik, the
detention appeared driven in part by a growing public outcry that he posed a
security risk.

In Egypt, Muslim fundamentalist leaders threatened to avenge the U.S.

action with a new campaign of terrorism in the United States and abroad.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/MUG/ABDEL-RAHMAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 6, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ENGLISH IS FIRST CHOICE OF IMMIGRANTS' KIDS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Children of the nation's two largest recent immigrant groups-- Latins and

Asians-- are learning, and preferring, English.

Despite fears that the new immigrant wave threatens the primacy of

English, a major new study of immigrants' children in South Florida and San

Diego shows that their parents' native tongues might be endangered instead.

"The second generation is overwhelmingly competent in English," said

Alejandro Portes, a sociology professor at Johns Hopkins University in

Maryland who conducted the survey. "Not only that, but overwhelmingly they

prefer English. And the preference for American culture is overwhelming as

well."

For instance, 99 percent of immigrant children surveyed in Miami said they speak
English well or very well. More than two-thirds said they prefer English to
Spanish, Creole or French.

Jessica Brown, a 13-year-old Cuban American who will attend St. Theresa

School in Coral Gables this fall, is a good example. Her parents' native

tongue is not her own, she says.

"I feel uncomfortable sometimes because I don't speak Spanish very

well," she said. "I like stutter too much when I speak it."

But the study also carries a warning: Despite their ease with English,

some immigrant children may never assimilate successfully because of racial

and economic barriers.

Particularly at risk, the study says, are Haitian-American children whose
families settle in Miami's inner-city neighborhoods, where they could find

mobility blocked by the same forces that keep many native-born minorities at

the bottom rung: lack of well-paying jobs, discrimination, despair.

Interviewers questioned 5,000 eighth- and ninth-graders in public and

private schools in Dade and Broward counties, and in San Diego, on such

subjects as language use, discrimination, and their parents' education and

economic status.

The study found stark differences between Dade and Broward. Portes said

immigrant children of all backgrounds reported "far greater" discrimination

in Broward from teachers, other authority figures and their peers.

"They stick out more in Broward, and they're made to pay for it," Portes

said. At the same time, immigrant children in Broward are far more likely than
their counterparts in Dade to mix with kids of U.S.-born parents.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 10, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUSPECTED SMUGGLING FLEET WATCHED

BYLINE: The Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


U.S. and Mexican military ships tracked a small fleet of suspected

smuggling vessels carrying Chinese immigrants off Mexico's Baja California

coast Friday, as the Clinton administration confronted a rapidly developing

test of its crackdown on illegal Chinese immigration.

The total of approaching vessels has increased to seven, according to

authorities who estimated the number of suspected U.S.-bound immigrants aboard
at as high as 1,500.

In addition to three boats intercepted by the U.S. Coast Guard this week, the
Mexican interior ministry said Friday that four more vessels had been

detected near Baja.

The clustering of seven ships in the same general area is unprecedented,

according to U.S. officials.

"It's almost an armada coming over here," said a senior government

official in Washington. The official said Mexico had agreed Friday to a

Clinton administration request to bring the first three boats ashore in Baja,
detain the 659 immigrants aboard, and assist with their repatriation.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 11, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN PLAYER APPARENTLY DEFECTS AT GAME

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, N.Y.


Political intrigue apparently infiltrated the World University Games on

Saturday.

Two years to the day that one of his baseball-playing countrymen defected, a
Cuban baseball player disappeared minutes before his team was scheduled to

play Taiwan at Sal Maglie Stadium in nearby Niagara Falls. Pitcher Edilberto

Oropesa, 23, left the team before the game, World University Games officials

said. But neither they nor the Immigration and Naturalization Service could

confirm that Oropesa was attempting to defect.

WKBW-TV in Buffalo reported that several eyewitnesses saw Oropesa leap a

fence while yelling "asylum" and enter a car, which sped away.

The INS was aware of Oropesa's disappearance, but had not heard from him

or anyone else claiming to be involved with the incident.

These are the first World University Games staged in the United States.

Cuban teams often play in this country, however, and only one baseball player,
pitcher Rene Arocha of the St. Louis Cardinals, has defected during an

American visit. Arocha did so in Miami on July 10, 1991.

Cuba won the game 8-4.

The U.S. baseball team won a controversial game with South Korea 8-3,

after a six-run fifth inning.

Koreans assistant coach Jo-Sung Rho was ejected in the first inning when

he questioned balls and strikes calls.

Also in the first inning, Todd Helton slid in hard on a force play at

second base and shortstop Ji Hyun Ryu took exception. He and Helton exchanged
words.

In the fourth, U.S. starter John Powell clipped the helmet of Park Hyun

Seung with a pitch. The next hitter, Kang Park Syu, was hit on the shoulder

with an 0-2 pitch and took a couple of steps toward the mound. He then walked to
first base as the umpire issued warnings to both benches.

In swimming, Whitney Hedgepeth of Texas shattered the WUG record for the

200-meter backstroke in afternoon qualifying. Her time of 2 minutes, 11.55

seconds easily beat the previous mark of 2:13.06. The final was held Saturday
night.

"I was just swimming my race, going at my own pace," the 22-year 1988

Olympian said of her time, the fifth fastest ever by an American. "I thought

to myself that I was close and I wanted that record, so pushed myself a little
extra."

Americans won all three of their tennis matches Saturday. Mike Sell, an

All-America from Georgia, took Sargis Sargisian of Armenia 2-6, 6-3, 7-5.

Heather Willens of Stanford, also an All-America, outlasted Marta Alastrue of
Spain 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, then combined with Pam Nelson of California, yet another
All-America, to beat Tracey King and Jaqui Gunthorpe of New Zealand 6-2, 6-0

in doubles.

"I'm relieved I was able to pull out the match," Sell said. "He was a

tough player. In the first set, his backhand was pounding me and I missed a

lot of short balls. The turning point was the fourth game of the second set,

when I broke back. The third set was really all about who wanted it the

most."

Also in action Saturday, when temperatures dipped from near 100 to the

mid-80s, were the U.S. men's and women's basketball and volleyball teams and

the American women's soccer team.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 11, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CHINESE EMIGRANTS `IN LIMBO' ABOARD SHIP

BYLINE: Reuter

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


More than 650 undocumented Chinese emigrants remained in political and

diplomatic limbo off the U.S.-Mexican coast Saturday as the Clinton

administration confronted a major test of its vow to crack down on illegal

immigration.

Officials in Washington were trying to determine what to do with three

immigrant smuggling ships detained by the U.S. Coast Guard in the Pacific

after Mexico Friday night declined a U.S. request to accept the passengers.

Mexico's interior ministry said four more ships carrying an estimated 750
Chinese emigrants were being tracked by navy vessels in international waters

in the same general area off Baja California.

The three ships are being held by the Coast Guard about 60 miles west off
Ensenada, Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 12, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

COAST GUARD CARING FOR CHINESE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Reuter

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The Coast Guard Sunday ferried emergency supplies to increasingly restless

Chinese immigrants crammed aboard three ships off Mexico's Pacific coast as

U.S. and Mexican officials tried to figure out what to do with them.

The two countries were trying to hammer out an agreement on a U.S.

request that Mexico detain and repatriate the 659 undocumented passengers who
were intercepted last week on U.S.-bound smuggling vessels.

Although Mexico formally rejected the proposal Friday, U.S. embassy

officials opened discussions Saturday with Mexican authorities in Mexico City to
resolve what has become an increasingly embarrassing diplomatic standoff.

A Coast Guard cutter from San Diego ferried out more than 600 ready-to-

eat meals, 450 life preservers and 1,000 chemical lights. They have

hundreds of pounds of rice and an electric generator.

The passengers, 50 of them women, were crammed together in filthy,

unsanitary living quarters on the boats, about 60 miles west of the Mexican

port of Ensenada.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            July 14, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TEEN TO BE DEPORTED

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A Colombian teenager who claimed he escaped from his homeland in the wheel

well of a jet Tuesday was in the custody of U.S. immigration officials and set
to be deported.

Juan Carlos Guzman's whereabouts were a mystery since he left the home of a
cousin a week ago, telling a police officer friend he would return to

Colombia.

Guzman, 17, was picked up Tuesday after someone complained of a boy

loitering in his Coral Gables neighborhood, said Miami police spokesman

Armando Villorin. He was bing held at the Krome Detenetion Center west of

Miami while immigration officials made arrangements to deport him as early as
today.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF / Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 15, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STOWAWAY SENT HOME

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Colombian runaway who made international headlines after claiming he

left his homeland in the wheel-well of a cargo jet was returned home

Wednesday.

Juan Carlos Guzman

a runaway who lied about his name, age and family to evade immigration

officials -- left Miami on an Arca Air Cargo plane around 4:30 p.m., ending

his six-week stay in the United States.

Guzman, who arrived June 4, was not allowed to present his case before a judge.

"If he had bought a ticket and arrived as a passenger, he would've had

the legal right to present his claim to an immigration judge," said George

Waldroup of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami. "He did not

have a chance of staying in the United States."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              July 16, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EMERGENCY PLAN FOR REFUGEES MAY BECOME MODEL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Florida's long-awaited immigration emergency plan moved a step closer to

completion Thursday as state, federal and local officials met to compare

notes.

Various agencies have been working on the program since 1982. Details were not
released, but it is intended to establish procedures for such concerns as
housing, detention and emergency declaration in the event of a huge influx of
refugees.

"It could be a model for other parts of the country," said assistant

attorney general Webster Hubbell. When complete, the plan will detail "who is
responsible for what, who coordinates what," he added.

The Justice Department expects to release regulations for applications

seeking reimbursement of funds spent on immigration emergencies within the

next month, said Phyllis Coven, a spokeswoman for Hubbell.

Since the Mariel boatlift of 1980, which brought to this country 125,000

Cubans, Florida has been trying to get back from the federal government some

of the money the state has spent on refugees. Coven said she believed the new
regulations would allow applications for retroactive reimbursement.

Gov. Lawton Chiles was expected to attend the session, but was delayed by an
insurance task force meeting in Tallahassee. His chief of staff, Tom

Herndon, described the current version of the plan as "a significant

improvement over earlier drafts."

Later, Chiles said he'd had a chance to talk with Hubbell and was pleased with
what he heard.

"We've been trying for years to get some real response from Justice, and

this worked very well, we think," he said. He added he was "delighted"

Hubbell was in the Miami area to get a firsthand feel for the effects of

immigration by visiting with school, health and immigration officials.

The session was attended by representatives of agencies such as the Coast Guard,
Border Patrol, and Dade and Monroe county governments.

"Using the opportunity as a sounding board really is invaluable," said

Walter Cadman, Miami district director of the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service. He expects the chance for the agencies to compare

notes to result in a better plan.

Participants are to fine-tune their contributions over the next several

weeks.

"We hope to test it out in the fall" with a simulation exercise, Herndon

said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 2, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

RENO PROMISES FAIRNESS FOR IMMIGRANTS IN U.S.

BYLINE: San Francisco Chronicle

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Projecting both toughness and compassion, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno vowed
Sunday to focus on immigration as a major challenge facing her department, but
also promised to ensure ``due process every step of the way.''

``One of the greatest challenges of the Department of Justice in the '90s is
balancing this nation's tradition as a nation of immigrants with the serious
burden (that immigration has f America convention in San Francisco.

Reno said she wanted a more efficient system for dealing with immigration, but
one which guarantees fair treatment to all immigrants.

The attorney general added that the Justice Department is studying a proposal to
use the National Guard to help stop illegal immigration at the California-Mexico
border.

``We're reviewing that to see what is appropriate under the circumstances,''
Reno said.

In her 20-minute speech at the convention, Reno said lawyers could better serve
the public by being more aware of root causes of crime and their clients'
realities, whether they are welfare mothers or middle class families.

``We need to look beyond the narrow practice of law,'' the 54-year-old attorney
general said before a crowd of 1,700 lawyers and guests at the San Francisco
Hilton. ``Too often, we've focused on winning the case . . . We have to make our
courts more accessible to all Americans at a lot less cost.''

Reno said the justice system should put more energy into rehabilitation of
criminals who want to turn their lives around and reserve long-term prison
sentences for hardened criminals.

Prisons, she said ``ought to be used to house dangerous offenders for the length
of time the judges are sentencing them, and we should develop other programs to
provide opportunities for people to return to the community with half a fighting
chance.''

Reno's remarks were well-received at the convention, where she was given a
standing ovation before and after her talk.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 4, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS SWAMP AGENTS;
BORDER PATROL FORCED TO FREE 5

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Police in two coastal towns released five Haitian immigrants from custody last
week because the U.S. Border Patrol was swamped with work from another refugee
landing, officials said Tuesday.

The five Haitians were first found walking along U.S. A1A in Ocean Ridge and
Gulf Stream in southern Palm Beach County about midnight July 27. They were
detained while a dispatcher called the Border Patrol station at the Port of Palm
Beach.

``I just got overwhelmed,'' said Neal Richards, chief agent in charge of the
Border Patrol station. ``With my little crew, I just couldn't move.''

When the dispatcher called for Border Patrol assistance, the four Border Patrol
agents assigned to the Port of Palm Beach station were busy transferring 31
Haitians rounded up earlier in the day in St. Lucie County.

That Border Patrol office covers eight counties and 120 miles of Florida
coastline.

It's no surprise then, that the situation nearly repeated itself Monday when 12
Haitians came ashore in Martin County and another 16 were rounded up in Gulf
Stream.

``We got close to it again,'' Richards said. ``It doesn't take much to inundate
us.''

Richards said last week's incident happened while he and his agents were
transporting and processing the 31 Haitians. They were eventually taken to a
Dade County detention center.

Richards said he told the police dispatcher for the coastal towns

Police lacked jail cells to detain Haitians that a Border Patrol agent would be
free about 7 a.m. if the local police agencies could detain the Haitians for the
night.

``I could have gotten to them the next day,'' Richards said.

But the Ocean Ridge Police Department's detention cell can hold only one person,
Police Chief Ed Hillery said.

Gulf Stream Police Chief Robert Schultz said he realizes the Border Patrol is
under strain from the recent numbers of Haitian refugees.

``We are not trying to make the Border Patrol out as bad guys,'' Schultz said.
``I can see where they can get tapped out.''

Schultz said a Gulf Stream officer saw two Haitians walking along A1A about
midnight trying to flag down motorists. He said they denied knowing about the
three other Haitians being held by Ocean Ridge officers about a half-mile away.

``None of them had any identification,'' Schultz said. ``They were Haitian as
far as we could ascertain.''

The five were assembled at a gasoline station and released after the call to the
Border Patrol, Schultz said.

Richards said the 64 Haitians detected in the past week appear to have come from
the Bahamas, where thousands of Haitian refugees are waiting while they seek
passage to the United States. A HAITIAN INFLUX

As more and more Haitian refugees find their way to Palm Beach County and the
Treasure Coast via the Bahamas, the ability of U.S. Border Patrol officials to
respond and process them is being taxed. In the past seven days alone, some 64
Haitians have come ashore in Palm Beach and Martin counties.

Aug. 2 - 16 Haitians picked up on Ocean Boulevard in Gulf Stream.

Aug. 2 - 12 Haitians come ashore on Jupiter Island and are taken into custody.

July 27 - Five Haitians found walking along Ocean Boulevard in Gulf Stream and
Ocean Ridge. After being detained by police for an hour, they are released
because the Border Patrol was busy with 31 Haitians found in St. Lucie County.

July 27 - A sailboat carrying 31 Haitians lands on Hutchinson Island in St.
Lucie County. They were taken into custody.

July 18 - 24 Haitians are taken into custody in northern Palm Beach County and
southern Martin County and their 22-foot boat is seized.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Info box attached to text. Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 4, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GAY GRANTED ASYLUM

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A Brazilian man who became the first person granted U.S. asylum because he
feared anti-gay persecution in his home country said Tuesday he would have been
killed if he had been deported.

Marcelo Tenorio was granted political refugee status by a U.S. immigration judge
July 26. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which contested his
asylum request, has not yet decided whether to appeal.

Tenorio fled Brazil in 1990 after being beaten by street thugs outside a gay
disco in Rio. He also said he had been beaten by police who accosted him on the
street in Sao Paolo, chanting: ``You are gay! You are gay!''

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 13, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DEMJANJUK LIED, SO DON'T LET HIM RETURN

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 92 words


I read with disbelief and disgust that John Demjanjuk is to be allowed to return
to the United States. As a naturalized American citizen, I went through due
process when applying for immigration to America. If there had been even the
slightest whisper of lies, I would not have had the chance to immigrate, and
rightly so.

And yet this person who has been proven to have lied is being allowed back into
the U.S. I'm now waiting for Saddam Hussein to be granted asylum in the U.S. on
grounds of compassion. Nobody loves him anymore!

Arthur K. Newman

Jupiter

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 14, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ANOTHER NAZI SS GUARD FOUND LIVING IN FLORIDA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Federal authorities have discovered a former SS concentration camp guard living
in Florida - the second this month - and begun deportation proceedings.

Mathias Denuel, 73, of Naples is accused of concealing his Nazi activities when
he was issued a resident alien visa on entering the United States in 1955,
Justice Department officials said Friday.

Denuel served at the Gusen concentration camp and guarded prisoners moved from
Poland to the Mauthausen concentration camp, said Director Neal Sher of the
Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations.

Denuel, a German national, confirmed that he worked at the Gusen camp where
thousands of Jews and other prisoners were tortured and killed, Sher said.

On Aug. 3, authorities began deportation procedures against another former SS
camp guard, Alexander Schweidler, 71, of Inverness. Sher said one of
Schweidler's duties at Mauthausen was to shoot prisoners attempting to escape.

Both cases are now before the U.S. Immigration Court in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 20, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AFGHANISTAN UNSURE IT WANTS JAILED MUSLIM CLERIC FROM U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN


Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman is talking about trading his jail cell in New York for
asylum in Afghanistan. But Afghanistan isn't sure it wants the radical Muslim
cleric.

The country's leaders are divided over letting the sheik into Afghanistan if he
is deported from the United States, where he has been charged with lying on
immigration papers.

The country's fundamentalist prime minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, called
Abdel-Rahman a ``leader of the Islamic nation'' and said he was welcome.

But Hekmatyar's rival, President Burhanuddin Rabbani, opposes asylum for the
sheik. Such an offer could doom the nation's attempts to get money from
countries menaced by the sheik or other Muslim fundamentalists.

Lawyers for Abdel-Rahman said Wednesday that they were discussing his possible
deportation to Afghanistan with federal authorities, who have held the sheik in
Otisville, N.Y., since last month.

An official at the Afghan Embassy in Islamabad said Thursday that ``the
president and foreign minister have already rejected the idea of his coming to
Afghanistan.''

Afghanistan's bankrupt government needs huge infusions of cash from other
countries. For the past year, Afghan leaders have been going to Muslim and
Western capitals trying to drum up donations.

The West has been close-fisted with aid because of factional fighting that has
killed more than 10,000 people.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 27, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TIMELESS CARTOONS STILL POIGNANT;
DELRAY EXHIBIT SHOWS OUR HISTORY ALONG WITH EDITORIAL COMMENTARY

BYLINE: By GARY SCHWAN Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: TGIF; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: DELRAY BEACH\


I recently saw a cartoon showing Daddy Warbucks selling pencils on a street
corner. Stock market go south? No, Clinton's tax hike.

Well, the more things change . . .

A 1930's panel by Harold Gray, creator of Little Orphan Annie, is part of an
exhibition of cartoons treating the American experience over two centuries. The
works are from the International Museum of Cartoon Art, based in Boca Raton,
where museum officials are working to build their own facility. This exhibit of
roughly 100 cartoons is at Old School Square's Cornell Museum.

The time is the Great Depression, another state-engineered disaster. Daddy and
Annie are sitting at the dining table, slurping soup. Confides the plucky
orphan: ``I hate to tell you, `Daddy' . . . But I might as well come right out
with it - We're busted . . . ''

The exhibition is both entertaining and informative. It confirms that many of
the social, economic and political problems fixating today's faint-hearted
Americans have been around a while, in one form or another, in one degree or
another - often a worse degree. And they've all been handled by cartoonists -
sans gloves.

Immigration:

The classic American ambivalence about immigration is found in an 1880 cartoon
by Joseph Keppler for Puck magazine. Uncle Sam welcomes a long line of European
immigrants up the gangplank to the land of opportunity. A sign reads: ``No
oppressive taxes. No expensive kings. No compulsory military service. No knouts
or dungeons.''

However, another sign proclaims: ``Free Education. Free Land. Free Speech. Free
Lunch.''

Another cartoon is called ``The Last Yankee.'' It appeared in Frank Leslie's
Illustrated Newspaper around the turn of the century. It shows a crowd of
``furriners'' gathered around a lanky, bemused Anglo. They look at him as if he
were a curiosity.

Behind the crowd, shopkeepers stare from the windows of two stores -
Boomelheimer's American Grocery and Jean Bourgeois' American Bakery. Substitute
Korean and Pakistani names for the German and French ones and it all sounds
up-to-date.

Race:

The show contains several hair-raising political cartoons from the
Reconstruction era. They attack the South, the Klan and the mistreatment of
newly freed slaves. Fierce Republican propaganda, to be sure, but the record
bears out their core truth.

Celebrity:

The great Charles Dana Gibson depicted the great heavyweight champion John L.
Sullivan strutting through a crowd of admiring urchins. Think of Muhammed Ali's
reception on today's city streets. The 1904 cartoon appeared in Collier's.

Political irony:

A 1989 political cartoon by Jeff MacNelly shows a bust of Karl Marx. Behind it
is a banner proclaiming: ``Workers of The World . . . Never Mind.''

The weather:

A pipe-smoking German is ensconced in his East Coast tavern as contentedly as a
cat. The 1887 cartoon asks why newcomers to these shores don't want to settle
the ``Wild West.'' Insets offer the answers. Blizzards. Droughts. Crop failures.
And: ``In the spring, he is submerged by freshets.'' Freshets? Try floods.

The exhibition is really two - one showing the country's history, the other
displaying a range of political and editorial commentary. The historical section
is divided into sub-sections with such names as Settling the Land; The Rights of
the People; The American Dream; In Defense of Freedom.

The latter category is devoted to America's military experiences. It features a
wonderful Bill Mauldin cartoon devoted to his immortal dogfaces, Willie and Joe.

A timely cartoon, considering the Bosnian fiasco, comes from the '50s. A GI
fires his weapon from a foxhole. Next to him, a tiny U.N. soldier fires his
squirt gun.

Contemporary comic strips show the degree to which many have turned from mere
comedy to subtle commentary. Al Capp's Li'l Abner led the way. Along came
Doonesbury. Now, a host of cartoons tackle the ``big issues,'' albeit with a
chuckle.

More than a century of political cartoonists are represented, ranging from
Thomas Nast to The Palm Beach Post's Don Wright. Come to think of it, the names
sum up the genre - nasty, but often right.

Art for the underserved . . . The Palm Beach County Cultural Council will hold a
grant preparation workshop Saturday at 9 a.m. at the Northwood University
auditorium in West Palm Beach.

The workshop will deal with the Neighborhood Arts Residency Program, an effort
to bring cultural opportunities to ``underserved'' neighborhoods.

The program,open to artists in all disciplines, is underwritten by the John D.
and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ART REVIEW

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 Charles Dana Gibson's 1904 cartoon depicts heavyweight champion John  L.
Sullivan strutting through a crowd.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 2, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EXILES EXPECTED TO ARRIVE IN MIAMI TONIGHT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Eight Cubans who have been on an immigration odyssey since surviving a shipwreck
while fleeing their homeland received permission Wednesday to come to the United
States.

The Cuban American National Foundation said it was working on arrangements to
fly the Cubans to Miami from Mexico. The Cubans were expected in Miami by
tonight aboard a private plane.

The exile group will take responsibility for the refugees through its ``exodus''
program for settling Cubans who arrive from third countries. The eight received
special humanitarian visas.

The Cubans had set out from Cuba for the British Cayman Islands, but their small
boat sank off Mexico. Seven others drowned.

Rescued by Mexican authorities, the survivors were given medical treatment, then
flown back to Cuba on Aug. 19. Mexican immigration authorities said they hadn't
asked for asylum in Mexico.

Their forced return sparked protests by Cuban exiles outside the Mexican
consulate in Miami.

Exile leaders threatened to wage a campaign against the North American Free
Trade Agreement.

The Mexican government late last week persuaded the Castro government to send
the Cubans back to Mexico City, where they arrived Sunday evening.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Coast Guard reported Wednesday it had picked up 38 Cubans in
four rescues Tuesday off the Florida Keys.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 2, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EXILES EXPECTED TO ARRIVE IN MIAMI TONIGHT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Eight Cubans who have been on an immigration odyssey since surviving a shipwreck
while fleeing their homeland received permission Wednesday to come to the United
States.

The Cuban American National Foundation said it was working on arrangements to
fly the Cubans to Miami from Mexico. The Cubans were expected in Miami by
tonight aboard a private plane.

The exile group will take responsibility for the refugees through its ``exodus''
program for settling Cubans who arrive from third countries. The eight received
special humanitarian visas.

The Cubans had set out from Cuba for the British Cayman Islands, but their small
boat sank off Mexico. Seven others drowned.

Rescued by Mexican authorities, the survivors were given medical treatment, then
flown back to Cuba on Aug. 19. Mexican immigration authorities said they hadn't
asked for asylum in Mexico.

Their forced return sparked protests by Cuban exiles outside the Mexican
consulate in Miami.

Exile leaders threatened to wage a campaign against the North American Free
Trade Agreement.

The Mexican government late last week persuaded the Castro government to send
the Cubans back to Mexico City, where they arrived Sunday evening.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Coast Guard reported Wednesday it had picked up 38 Cubans in
four rescues Tuesday off the Florida Keys.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 5, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BEFORE CLOSING BORDERS, OPEN UP THE DISCUSSION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 807 words


When Congress passed a new set of laws in 1986, we were told that immigration
problems in the United States had been ended. Seven years later, they are a big
blip on the nation's radar screen again. U.S. Rep. Harry Johnston, D-West Palm
Beach, says of his recent meetings with constituents, ``If health care is issue
number 1, illegal immigration is 1A.''

The two issues may be that closely linked in a lot of ways. If we get national
health care, we will need control of our borders or the program will become
international health care, with people from many nations coming to take
advantage of the services. Health care and immigration also affect the North
American Free Trade Agreement, which is designed to open up what Rep. Johnston
calls ``the largest border in the world between a First and a Third world
country.'' And the U.S.-Mexican border isn't very tight even without the treaty.

Immigration is back on the screen in several shapes. There is Sheik Omar
Abdel-Rahman, arrested on terrorism charges while awaiting extradition to Egypt
or deportation for being here illegally, either of which could take years
because of all the appeals. There are the eight Cubans who got as far as Mexico
in an effort to raft to the Cayman Islands and were sent back to Cuba. The Cuban
American National Foundation browbeat the Clinton administration into thinking
of the Mexican coast as equivalent to U.S. soil. Or something. Anyway, they're
here now.

Most influentially, there is an immigration uproar with its epicenter,
appropriately enough, in California. Gov. Pete Wilson, a conservative, says
illegal immigrants cost his state $3 billion each year for education, health
care and welfare. Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., a liberal, wants the National
Guard to seal her state's border with Mexico. Gov. Wilson's $3 billion estimate
matches his state's budget deficit. Coincidence?

Statistics such as Gov. Wilson's are suspect. If illegal immigrants could be
found, counted and documented, they could be deported. Even their total number
is a guess. The Census Bureau estimates 4 million nationwide, 137,000 in
Florida. The Immigration and Nationalization Service estimates 2.3 million in
the country but 345,000 in Florida.

How are those estimates figured? Well, a widely cited estimate that two-thirds
of the babies born in Los Angeles are born to immigrants (legal and illegal) is
based on last names. Americans whose families have been in California since the
Spanish missions - before any Wilsons or Boxers - must be part of the
two-thirds.

It is illegal for hospitals or schools to ask about immigration status, so what
illegal immigrants cost taxpayers is really unknown. They have access to
emergency medical services (usually in hospitals, especially for childbirth),
the Head Start program, the federal school lunch and breakfast programs,
nutrition programs and some housing and welfare. But they are not eligible for
the cash payments dispensed by Aid to Families with Dependent Children or food
stamps or Social Security.

There is evidence that illegal immigrants don't use such programs as much as
they could because they try to avoid contact with officialdom. There is also
evidence that their cost is offset to some - also immeasurable - extent by taxes
they or their employers pay for services the immigrants don't accept. A 1992
study by the Families USA Foundation found, for instance, that many Mexicans
with U.S. work permits and employer-paid insurance still go home for health care
because physicians and medicines are cheaper in Mexico.

Our problems with the border are largely of our own making. We politicize the
rules but don't spend enough to enforce them. Since 1882, legal immigrants have
had to prove they are ``not likely to become a public charge.'' People who jump
over the legal hurdles may wait years for admission, while immigrants who bypass
the hurdles and the Border Patrol get right in.

Anyone who says ``political asylum'' at the border is released until a hearing
can be scheduled months later. (Unless they're Cuban; then they come right in.)
That's because we don't have enough hearing officers, nor do we have enough
police to find the ones who skip the hearing. Rep. Johnston and Rep. Tom Lewis,
R-North Palm Beach, got $60 million added to the budget for more Border Patrol
officers. That's only a start. We claim to charge admission, but we leave the
box office and the turnstiles unattended.

Immigration uproars run in waves, usually on tides of economic distress. The
expansion of government services - soon to include health care - makes getting
control of the borders a prerequisite to having control of budgets. It may be
time to ask tough questions, such as: Should children of parents who are here
illegally get automatic citizenship? To answer, we need unpoliticized facts and
unheated discussion.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 6, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. PLANS `NET' FOR IMMIGRANTS;
PATROLS, CHECKPOINTS WOULD CONTROL IMMIGRATION CRISIS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


The U.S. government's plan to deal with a mass immigration crisis calls for
patrols to interdict alien-laden boats at sea, highway checkpoints and teams
sent into neighborhoods to ease tensions, according to a draft report.

Although the plan makes no mention of any particular country, planners said it
was drawn with Cuba and Haiti in mind, according to a Fort Lauderdale
Sun-Sentinel report Sunday.

``The mass immigration emergency may be caused or provoked by war, environmental
devastation, political unrest or persecution, severe economic privation or other
large-scale disasters,'' said the draft report obtained by the paper.

The government plans to cast a floating net to keep Florida from being inundated
with refugees. Such a net was put in place around Haiti in January when a mass
exodus was expected there.

But the report is the first indication that the government could impose a
similar blockade in the event of a crisis in Cuba, the Sun-Sentinel said.

The plan calls for:

Coast Guard and Customs Service patrols to seize or turn back alien-laden
vessels. Anyone caught smuggling would be arrested.

Immigration officers to set up highway checkpoints to catch those who slip
though the net.

Detainees caught at sea or on land to be shipped out of Florida.

Teams of Justice Department workers to rush into South Florida neighborhoods to
ease tensions caused by new arrivals.

Intelligence gathering by police agencies in Florida and the CIA overseas to try
to spot mass exoduses in advance.

The planners' main goal is to prevent a future migration from turning as chaotic
as the Mariel boatlift of 1980, which brought 125,000 Cubans to Florida.

Local and state officials have long complained that South Florida bears too much
of a burden from such immigration. Operation Distant Shores, as the draft is
called, is designed to lessen the impact by trying to spread resettlement and
detention elsewhere.

The plan was drawn by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and spells out
roles for 21 federal agencies and Florida groups.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS.....Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            September 6, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. PLANS `NET' FOR IMMIGRANTS;
PATROLS, CHECKPOINTS WOULD CONTROL IMMIGRATION CRISIS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


The U.S. government's plan to deal with a mass immigration crisis calls for
patrols to interdict alien-laden boats at sea, highway checkpoints and teams
sent into neighborhoods to ease tensions, according to a draft report.

Although the plan makes no mention of any particular country, planners said it
was drawn with Cuba and Haiti in mind, according to a Fort Lauderdale
Sun-Sentinel report Sunday.

``The mass immigration emergency may be caused or provoked by war, environmental
devastation, political unrest or persecution, severe economic privation or other
large-scale disasters,'' said the draft report obtained by the paper.

The government plans to cast a floating net to keep Florida from being inundated
with refugees. Such a net was put in place around Haiti in January when a mass
exodus was expected there.

But the report is the first indication that the government could impose a
similar blockade in the event of a crisis in Cuba, the Sun-Sentinel said.

The plan calls for:

Coast Guard and Customs Service patrols to seize or turn back alien-laden
vessels. Anyone caught smuggling would be arrested.

Immigration officers to set up highway checkpoints to catch those who slip
though the net.

Detainees caught at sea or on land to be shipped out of Florida.

Teams of Justice Department workers to rush into South Florida neighborhoods to
ease tensions caused by new arrivals.

Intelligence gathering by police agencies in Florida and the CIA overseas to try
to spot mass exoduses in advance.

The planners' main goal is to prevent a future migration from turning as chaotic
as the Mariel boatlift of 1980, which brought 125,000 Cubans to Florida.

Local and state officials have long complained that South Florida bears too much
of a burden from such immigration. Operation Distant Shores, as the draft is
called, is designed to lessen the impact by trying to spread resettlement and
detention elsewhere.

The plan was drawn by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and spells out
roles for 21 federal agencies and Florida groups.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  STATE/REGIONAL NEWS.....Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 11, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AGENTS CRACK RING THAT SOLD PHONY VISAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Undercover agents have cracked a counterfeiting operation that sold U.S. entry
visas to thousands of Egyptians, including some who attended the mosque of
jailed Muslim cleric Omar Abdel-Rahman, government officials say.

The documents were not detected by U.S. border inspectors partly because they
were high quality fakes, officials said.

All spoke on condition of anonymity, and none of the agencies involved in the
probe - the FBI, Immigration and Naturalization Service and Bureau of Diplomatic
Security at the State Department - made an official comment.

The sophisticated counterfeiting operation, which used color photocopying,
illustrates the difficulty of detecting such fraud and underscores the
porousness of U.S. border controls.

``There's so much counterfeiting of immigration documents,'' said INS spokesman
Verne Jervis.

After a six-month investigation, including help from an informant, authorities
determined that the counterfeit operation was based in the United States and
that most of the visas were sold to Egyptians - some in the Alexandria area,
said the officials. A few were sold to East Europeans.

Investigators also found that some of those who got the visas and entered the
United States attended the al-Salam mosque in Jersey City, N.J., where
Abdel-Rahman sometimes preached until he was taken into custody on July 2 in
connection with the World Trade Center bombing.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 13, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS PROMPT EXODUS OF POOR FROM SOME STATES

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 360 words


The historical movement of the poor across the country in search of a better
life has taken a new course recently, as tens of thousands of poor people fled
California, New York and other states that traditionally have served as centers
of upward mobility.

Research using 1990 Census data suggests that the new exodus of the poor is
prompted by the movement of large numbers of other people in poverty -
immigrants - into those states.

Researcher William Frey, a University of Michigan demographer, said economic and
social disruption resulting from immigration are driving native-born residents
out of some areas.

Nationally, these recent migration patterns - poor immigrants moving in and
poor, native-born residents moving out - are leading to further segregation,
because most of those being displaced are white, Frey said.

Frey's research at the University of Michigan's Population Studies Center
indicates that from 1985 to 1990, poor whites were most likely to leave
California and settle in Oregon, Washington, Arizona and Nevada. Large numbers
of poor whites also left New York for Florida, New Jersey for Pennsylvania and
Illinois for Wisconsin.

Poor minorities were most likely to leave New York for Florida, North Carolina,
Massachusetts and Virginia, and to move from New Jersey to Florida, from
Illinois to Wisconsin and from Texas to Florida.

The new patterns of movement are distinct for two reasons.

Typically, when a state suffers economically, the group most likely to leave is
made up of the more educated and established residents. But today, the poor are
joining that middle-class exodus.

Second, the geographic character of the migration pattern has changed. In the
past, the poor tended to move in large numbers toward a more economically
favorable destination. Southerners moved to northern industrial cities.
Unemployed auto workers traveled a Michigan-to-Texas pathway during the oil-boom
days. ``Dust bowl'' families fled to the West.

That kind of migration still exists, but what is unusual, Frey said, is the new
movement induced by immigration: poor pushing outward in a kind of expanded
suburbanization that often leads them to nearby states.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 18, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN AIR FORCE CAPTAIN DEFECTS IN SOVIET-MADE JET

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST


A Cuban air force captain defected Friday in a MiG jet he landed at Key West
Naval Air Station. It appeared that no U.S. agencies tracked its flight, a
government source said.

The MiG-21 landed without incident at the base in Key West, 90 miles from the
Cuban coast.

``We didn't see or chase it,'' said a federal official, speaking on condition of
anonymity. ``Neither did the Air Force.''

The Soviet-made MiG was on a training flight and wasn't carrying any missiles,
said Marine Capt. Tim Hoyle at the U.S. Atlantic fleet command in Norfolk, Va.
But U.S. Customs Service spokesman Michael Sheehan in Miami said the single-seat
jet had its standard supply of ammunition.

Capt. Enio Ravelo Rodriguez, 32, asked for political asylum and was turned over
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service within three hours, a common first
step for Cubans allowed to enter the United States under relaxed immigration
laws.

``All he had with him is his flight suit and his helmet,'' Sheehan said.

INS district director Walter Cadman said he expected Ravelo to be released
within hours, to relatives if any are found or to a refugee group.

Ravelo took off from a base at San Antonio de Los Banos on the outskirts of
Havana, said Mario Miranda, spokesman for the Cuban American National Foundation
exile group.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           September 21, 1993 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A NEW DEFINITION OF `TERRORIST' NEEDED

BYLINE: ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 609 words


Janet Reno has attracted remarkable public support as attorney general because
she calls them as she sees them, not hesitating to challenge such shibboleths as
mandatory sentences and drug law enforcement methods.

Ms. Reno's attention could be usefully directed now at a 6-year-old case that I
think shows the prosecutorial mind at its obsessive worst. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service is trying to push a terrorism clause in the law beyond
its words - and perhaps beyond the Constitution - in order to deport two
Palestinians who have not engaged in terrorism.

The case is especially dubious now because of the agreement between Israel and
the PLO. President Clinton and other leaders urged support for the PLO effort at
gover-nance in Gaza and Jericho. But in the INS view of the law, an alien
resident in this country who gave such support would be deportable.

Khader Hamide and Michel Shehadeh have lived in the U.S. for many years. In
1987, in Los Angeles, INS agents arrested them, put them in shackles and called
them ``terrorists.''

But they were not charged with committing any terrorism. In the deportation
proceedings that have dragged on since, then they were accused, rather, of
raising money for a radical PLO faction, the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine.

The PFLP has indeed carried out terrorist acts. But like other organizations -
Nelson Mandela's African National Congress, for example - it has been both a
guerrilla and a political group.

Hamide and Shehadeh say they supported only lawful activities, such as clinics
in the West Bank. And they have what seems to be conclusive testimony that they
have not engaged in violent acts. How, then, does the INS justify the claim that
they should be deported? It relies on a clause in a 1990 Immigration Act that
makes aliens deportable if they give ``material support to any individual,
organization or government in conducting a terrorist activity at any time.''

In the teeth of those words, as it seems to me, the INS says it can deport
aliens who gave money to an organization for the most peaceful purpose if that
organization had ever conducted a terrorist action.

That interpretation of the law is described as distorted and dangerous in a
letter that 60 professors of immigration law have written to Attorney General
Reno. They point out that the purpose of the 1990 law was to repeal the
political clauses of the old McCarran-Walter Act. Yet here, they say, the INS
would reintroduce the concept of guilt by association.

Giving support to terrorism is a crime in this country. But it is lawful to
support peaceful activities by even a despised group.

The deportation proceeding is out of synch, too, with the PLO-Israel
rapprochement and American policy toward it. In the INS view, any alien who
contributed to the PLO to build housing in Gaza now would be deportable. The
good purpose would not matter, because the PLO has in the past committed
terrorism.

But the case has dangerous implications. A Nicaraguan who gave money to the
Contras for a hospital would be deportable. So would a South African exile who
contributed to Mr. Mandela's recent speaking tour.

A year ago, I spoke with a Bush administration assistant attorney general,
Stuart Gerson, about the case. He said, ``We'll try to show that they materially
aided a terrorist cause. If we don't, we should lose.''

The only way the INS has tried to meet that test is by defining ``terrorist
cause'' beyond common sense and the language of the statute. It is time the
Justice Department - and Attorney General Reno - put an end to this perversion
of justice.

* Anthony Lewis is a columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          September 25, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CUBAN DEFECTOR TO FLY TO MIAMI

BYLINE: Palm Beach Post Wire Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 59 words

DATELINE: MIAMI (REUTER)


A Cuban pilot who flew his warplane to the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay and
asked for asylum will probably be relocated to Miami early next week, officials
said Friday.

U.S. Immigration officials in Washington and Cuban exile sources in Miami said
they expected the pilot, the second to defect in a MiG in a week, to fly to
Miami Monday after debriefing.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF...ran all editions

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 7, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BILL SEEKS CASH FOR EDUCATING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By SHANNON JOHNSON Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Florida and other states with large numbers of immigrant students would receive
more money for education while states with fewer immigrants would lose their
grants under legislation introduced Wednesday by Rep. Harry Johnston.

The proposal by Johnston, a Democrat from West Palm Beach, would create a new
program to provide grants up to $400,000 per year for school districts with at
least 5,000 immigrant students, or 10 percent of total enrollment. The money
could be used for anything relevant to the integration and education of
immigrant students such as bilingual education and counseling services.

The program would benefit Palm Beach, Dade and Broward county schools which have
a high percentage of immigrant students, according to Brian Geiger, Johnston's
press secretary.

Johnston's proposal would raise the threshold for school districts to qualify
for federal assistance from 500 immigrant students, or 3 percent of enrollment
to 1,000 immigrant students or 5 percent of enrollment.

``The main problem with the current program is little money spread too thin,''
Johnston said.

Money is rationed among 39 states even though 70 percent of the immigrants are
concentrated in just five states: Florida, Texas, California, New York and
Illinois.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 17, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS REALLY DON'T HAVE IT EASY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 145 words


I'd like to comment on the letter ``Care for our own before immigrants'': I am a
Canadian who moved to West Palm Beach in November 1989 with my American husband
and three Canadian-born daughters.

In order to enter this country, we had to be sponsored by an American other than
my husband; have medical exams by both American and Canadian doctors; pass an
AIDS test; undergo psychological testing; have some knowledge of U.S. history,
and for the final straw, sign papers stating we would never apply for any U.S.
assistance such as welfare or food stamps.

After two years here, my husband and I had to prove we were still married and
living together. If this was not done, then the girls and I were to be deported.

It's my conclusion that in order to live in this country without problems, you
must not be white or English-speaking with a profession!

Paula A. Darling

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           October 23, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

JUDGE SAYS `BOMB THREAT' WAS PLEA TO USE BATHROOM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE


A German visitor who may have been able to avoid months in prison if he'd been
allowed to use the bathroom is back in custody because his visitor visa expired
while he was locked up.

Johann Peter Grezeganek, 23, was intoxicated onboard an airplane when he was
arrested for making a bomb threat which really meant his bladder - not the plane
- was about to explode.

The man, who speaks little English, was ordered freed by a federal judge
Wednesday after spending nine months in prison on federal charges of interfering
with a flight crew and making a false bomb threat.

The judge sentenced him to time served.

But the bad dream continued Thursday for Grezeganek, when instead of being freed
to fly to German, U.S. Marshals handed him over to Immigration and
Naturalization Services - who put him back in jail.

INS officials say he will remain in the Metropolitan Correctional Center near
Miami and may be held until he can be deported because his tourist visa expired
while he was in prison.

Grezeganek was arrested Jan. 4 aboard a charter American Trans Air Flight bound
to Hanover, Germany. The pilot turned the plane around and landed at the
Hollywood-Fort Lauderdale International Airport after the incident.

As the plane took off, he told the judge in a letter the urge to relieve himself
became unbearable, he testified. But an English-speaking flight attendant
ordered him to sit down.

``I have to go to the bathroom, my bladder is full and going to explode,'' he
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 25, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

OFFICER GETS HAITIANS TO PORT AFTER CRASH COURSE IN FRENCH

BYLINE: By VAL ELLICOTT Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


A boat loaded with Haitians was stopped off Singer Island on Sunday by a Florida
Marine Patrol officer who called his girlfriend to ask her how to tell the
Haitians ``Follow me'' in French.

Officer Sean Murray said the 56 would-be immigrants, who were jammed into every
corner of the 20-foot power boat, at first tried to beach the boat when he told
them, in English and using hand gestures, to follow him to the Port of Palm
Beach.

``When I first pulled up to their boat, I thought there were about 25 of them,''
Murray said. ``Then they just started popping up everywhere.''

Frustrated by his inability to communicate, Murray finally used his cellular
phone to call his girlfriend, who speaks French, and receive a crash course in
the single French phrase.

``That seemed to work,'' Murray said.

The group of Haitians followed Murray back to the port, where they were turned
over to immigration officials. They were later taken to the Krome Detention
Center, according to a Coast Guard official.

Their overloaded boat carried two large fuel tanks but no life jackets, Murray
said. He said he stopped the boat about 9 a.m. offshore near the Tiara
Condominium.

Immigration officials told the Coast Guard that the boat carried 56 Haitians -
19 men, 18 women and 19 children.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 C.J. WALKER/Staff Photographer Some of a group of 56 Haitians wait at the
Customs dock at the Port of Palm Beach Sunday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 29, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SHOULD ACT LIKE GUESTS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 159 words


Immigrants should act like guests

In response to the letter `` `American way' must be to treat immigrants
justly'': You arrive at a friend's house uninvited with your entire family. What
do you do? You strive to minimize the inconvenience you cause by offering

a helping hand.

You dare not complain or expect preferential treatment. You show your gratitude
and quietly try to blend in even though you can't understand everything that is
said or don't like the foods served.

This has been the behavior of many immigrants such as the Finns, Dutch, French,
Germans and many Asians. They never demanded that signs be displayed in their
mother tongue. Peacefully, they celebrate their customs at home, with their
friends in their clubs.

People come to the United States of their own free will. But often they expect
better treatment than our own citizens. That is wrong.

Immigrants should behave like a guest or leave, and learn English. I did!

Johanna Esser

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 11, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

YES: MORE TRADE WITH MEXICO, FEWER ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By GEORGE C.J. MOORE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 841 words


Last week, before presenting the North American Free Trade Agreement to
Congress, the White House hosted business leaders at a briefing, hoping to spark
intensified lobbying of wavering members of Congress.

Top administration officials presented unique perspectives on NAFTA's
significance. The vice president, House speaker, secretary of the interior and
attorney general all focused on key issues and a firm conclusion: NAFTA has
become a necessity for the United States.

Why?

Vice President Gore pointed to a total of 23 General Accounting Office and
Congressional Budget Office studies on NAFTA's potential impact on jobs. The
conclusion in 22 of the studies was that significant job increases would result.
And the 23rd? Mr. Gore said this report predicted a substantial downturn in
illegal immigration.

In Florida, about 9,400 jobs depend on exports from Florida to Mexico, which
have increased by 203 percent during the past five years. Further trade
expansion would result from NAFTA, as from all previous U.S. trade agreements,
producing substantial growth in employment, especially in Florida, whose
geographic position ensures strategic advantage. Already, Mexico is Florida's
seventh-largest foreign trading partner. What losses there are in low-paying
agricultural jobs would be more than offset by higher-paying employment in both
supplying and servicing Mexico's economic expansion. Additional agreements
relating to citrus and other agricultural products are also nearing conclusion.

BMW and Daimler-Benz recently announced plans to build cars in the United States
- not in Mexico where ``pay is cheap'' - proving that wages are but one factor
determining plant location. Ross Perot's prediction of U.S. job losses is
predicated upon every U.S. manufacturer having labor costs of more than 20
percent of product price, a demonstrably untenable premise. The ``giant sucking
sound'' would come not from exporting U.S. manufacturing capability, as Mr.
Perot claims, but from rapid consumption and consumer demand, as nearby Mexico
comes to rival and overtake consumption from Canada, now the No. 1 trading
partner of the U.S. (and Florida).

Seventy percent of Mexico's imports come from the U.S., and the average Mexican
spends more than $450 a year for U.S. goods - more than the average European or
Japanese. Mexico is the fastest-growing market for U.S. products, and in two
years under NAFTA, Vice President Gore said, the U.S.' largest trade surplus
would be with Mexico.

Mr. Gore called NAFTA a breakthrough agreement environmentally. Never has any
international trade accord contained environmental provisions, thanks to side
agreements reached with Mexico in August.

Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, like Mr. Gore an environmentalist, emphasized
how NAFTA would give the U.S. specific leverage to influence Mexico's
environmental laws and enforcement.

Attorney General Janet Reno observed that 26 percent of U.S. prisoners are
aliens and cited cooperation with Mexican officials in arranging transfer of
Mexican offenders from the U.S. for incarceration in Mexico. Improved
immigration and border controls are inevitable under NAFTA but would become a
low priority for Mexico if the pact were rejected.

But NAFTA's ability to stimulate Mexico's economic and job growth would be the
most important factor in curbing illegal immigration to the U.S.

Approval of NAFTA would greatly enhance U.S. stature throughout the Americas.
Other hemispheric trade accords would follow and, as Mr. Babbitt put it, ``the
marriage of geography, history and economics will result in the U.S. becoming
the lodestar for making this hemisphere work.''

But if the United States rejects NAFTA, the U.S. would be humiliated at GATT
(Global Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) talks and spurned in the Americas while
Mexico, stung and bitterly disappointed, may instead revert to its
anti-Americanism of the past.

Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has staked his place in history and
that of his ruling political party on NAFTA. Mexican elections are set for the
summer of 1994. Rejection of the treaty would gravely undermine Mexican
confidence and cooperation with the U.S. - a fact not lost on Japan.

It is potential for mutual economic growth and job creation, however, and not
fear of adverse consequences that should propel the U.S. into ratification of
the trade agreement. The day before presenting NAFTA to Congress, President
Clinton gathered former presidents, former secretaries of state and former
secretaries of the treasury for collective endorsement of NAFTA - an act
unprecedented in U.S. history, combining more than 30 years of bipartisan U.S.
leadership. This was in addition to the states' endorsement as well: Forty-one
of the nation's governors have now endorsed NAFTA. Only the Congress remains to
be convinced.

* George C.J. Moore is a lawyer in West Palm Beach who specializes in
international law. He recently headed the Florida Economic Growth and
International Development Commission. He wrote this article for The Palm Beach
Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (mug / Moore, George C.J.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 13, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT'S INGENUITY SAVES HIS HOME

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 136 words


On Oct. 29, as Laguna Beach, Calif., burned, the Mutual radio news network
reported that, in one neighborhood, ``nothing was left'' except for one home.
The house untouched by the flames was constructed of stucco and other
non-flammable materials and crowned with a tile roof. According to the radio
report, the owner, a Vietnamese immigrant, had deliberately built the home with
California's fire problem in mind.

America's history is a history of immigrants, beginning with the pilgrims. Great
numbers of these new arrivals (Alexander Graham Bell, Nikola Tesla, et al.) are
credited with ideas and inventions that can only be called sheer genius. The
story of the house that survived the great fires of '93 should be an object
lesson to everyone who favors reforming America's immigration laws.

Dan Liftman

Lake Worth

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the Editor

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 20, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NON-U.S. CITIZENS MAY LOSE WELFARE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton's welfare reform task force is considering cutting welfare
benefits to immigrants to finance expansions in training, jobs and child care
for single mothers on public assistance, according to congressional and
administration officials.

A senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
Sunday that the task force has yet to begin discussions on the specifics of
financing its overhaul of the nation's welfare system.

But, the official said, the question of limiting benefits to non-citizens will
be ``one of a wide variety of options that will be on the table'' when the task
force begins wringing savings out of welfare programs to pay for its reform.

In their version of welfare reform, introduced last month, House Republicans see
big savings from limiting welfare benefits to most non-citizens.

According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, halting aid to most
non-citizens under the GOP plan would save at least $21 billion over five years:
$9.4 billion from Supplemental Security Income, a welfare program for low-income
elderly and disabled people; $8.1 billion from Medicaid; $2.8 billion from food
stamps; and $1 billion from Aid to Families with Dependent Children, a cash
welfare program for families with children.

A congressional aide, who insisted on anonymity, also said the White House task
force is considering some cuts in welfare to immigrants, although the
administration does not necessarily like the Republicans' broad approach.

Under the law, illegal aliens are not entitled to most welfare benefits, aside
from some nutrition programs and emergency medical care. Their children, if born
in the United States, are citizens and eligible for welfare. Legal immigrants
generally qualify for benefits after a three-year period, during which the
immigrants' sponsors are liable for their support.

A total of 810,635 immigrants were admitted to the United States in the 1992
budget year.

A report by the Social Security Administration, which runs SSI, finds that the
number of immigrants who collect SSI is growing quickly, and that many apply for
benefits as soon as the three-year ``deeming'' period is up.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 24, 1993 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HAITIAN REFUGEE RECOUNTS FATAL VOYAGE OF DESPERATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Clutching her shivering children to her side in the bottom of a smuggler's
pounding speedboat, Bernadette Laurent heard the anguished cry of a fellow
refugee screaming, ``My baby is dead, my baby is dead!''

Then came the screams as the woman and baby vanished into the night sea, the
latest victims of the Haitian people's desperation to escape their stricken
island nation.

Laurent, 30, was luckier than most. She finally waded ashore holding her
year-old son, Jason, and daughter Manoushka, 5. They found themselves near Fort
Lauderdale, where police turned her over to immigration officials.

Many more Haitian immigrants are bound for Florida from their homeland or from
their legal limbo in the Bahamas. The voyage for some will be deadly.

Laurent is one of the 25,000 to 50,000 illegal Haitian immigrants who have
washed up intentionally or otherwise in the Bahamian islands.

In a spring crackdown, the Bahamian government began rounding up the unwelcome
visitors. Laurent, her children and Jason's father were caught in March and
shipped back to Haiti.

She immediately made plans to escape again to the Bahamas.

Their chance came this month. A smuggler in Haiti agreed to take her to the
Bahamas for $500. The eight-day voyage ended in Freeport, where a woman met
their boat with an even more attractive offer - a quick trip to Florida.

Laurent was introduced to two men she called ``the captains.'' They charged her
$700 for the 70-mile trip.

Laurent and her children joined the captains and four other refugees - two young
Haitian men and a mother and baby. She knew the mother only as Marie.

Marie's 3-month-old son seemed ill to begin with - coughing, a runny nose.
Things got worse when they hit the open sea.

``It was cold, and the waves were very high,'' Laurent said. ``The children were
scared. They were trembling. I held them close to me. I was hiding my face in my
hands.''

Marie held her child tightly as well, Laurent said. Then the woman cried out.

Then Marie began screaming over and over, ``My baby is dead!''

Then the crying stopped. Marie and her child were gone.

``I didn't see what happened. The captain said the woman just fell in the sea,''
Laurent said.

The passengers begged the captain to search. They circled for about 10 minutes
in the night, but found nothing. They continued to Florida. The Border Patrol
said it didn't have enough information to search for the bodies or the boat.

Laurent, weighed down with the children, waded to shore in water up to her
thighs.

She's free on an immigration parole, and staying with a cousin under the
sponsorship of Church World Services.

With all she endured, however, she refuses to tell her countrymen to stay home.
It's easy to tell others to stay home when you already have your freedom,
Laurent said.

``I won't do that,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 29, 1993 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL INVESTIGATING BOGUS DOCUMENT OPERATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 245 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The U.S. Border Patrol has uncovered a counterfeit immigration document
operation in South Florida that was selling bogus papers for as much as $5,000
to people in several states and the Caribbean.

``The scope of this particular case is extremely large,'' Michael Sheehy,
assistant chief of the U.S. Border Patrol in Miami, said Tuesday. ``We did seize
proof of more than 2,500 cards that had been made and issued - temporary
resident cards.''

No one has been charged in the investigation that started about a month ago,
Sheehy said.

The operation includes several states, including Florida, New York and New
Jersey, Sheehy said.

Through their investigation, agents have identified three organizations
responsible for selling counterfeit documents.

The largest one employs as many as 25 people, including the document maker and
the brokers who sell the documents, Border Patrol agent Jeffery Shields said.

``It appears to be a very lucrative business,'' Shields said.

He estimated the document maker alone was making $50,000 to $100,000 a year.

The documents ranged from complete sets of identification to single cards, such
as resident alien cards, which identify someone as a legal immigrant, or work
permits.

They also found non-immigrant visas that were to be used by foreigners
attempting to enter the United States.

Many cards were ready to be delivered and agents have tracked down some people
who paid for them, most of them illegal aliens who needed documents to get jobs.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            April 27, 1996 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

ADVOCATES: ADD IMMIGRANTS TO MAGNETS

BYLINE: By MARY WAREJCKA Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 319 words


Too few immigrant students who are still learning English are making it into the
Palm Beach County School District's magnet programs, according to a letter from
Florida Rural Legal Services released Friday.

This school year, about 2 percent of the students in magnet programs speak
limited English, though such students make up about 14 percent of the district's
overall enrollment, according to the state Department of Education.

The county school district must provide limited-English-speaking students with
instruction that is ``equal and comparable'' to other students, according to an
agreement that the state signed in 1990 to avoid a lawsuit by the League of
United Latin American Citizens.

Anna Meehan, coordinator of the school district's international studies and
multicultural awareness office, wouldn't comment on the letter.

She said that Superintendent Joan Kowal, to whom the letter was addressed, has
approved a June meeting with Rural Legal Services to work out any concerns.

The letter, signed by Legal Services staff lawyer Lisa Carmona and a lawyer for
Public Advocates Inc., also listed four other areas in which the group said the
district isn't providing adequate services for limited-English students:

Not enough Guatemalanand Mayan-speaking aides and interpreters are available for
a growing number of students.

Some schools are using their interpreters as instructional aides, which may keep
them from helping the students who have limited English skills.

The Parent Leadership Council, which consists of parents of limited-English
students and helps monitor the program, has not been well established.

Communication is poor between the schools and parents, leaving parents with the
impression that their students' chances in college will be hurt by participation
in the school's programs to teach English to students.

Neither Carmona nor the other lawyer, Stefan Rosenzweig, could be reached
Friday.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2006



CORRECTION: The correct spelling is Ana Meehan.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1996 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.


                              398 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             August 10, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

KUWAIT CARRIES OUT OWN `ETHNIC CLEANSING' POLICY;
THE U.S. CONDEMNS A SIMILAR CAMPAIGN IN BOSNIA.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH ALBRIGHT, Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: KUWAIT CITY


In the southern suburb of Jleeb al Shuyoukh, 2 miles from the gleaming

terminals of Kuwait International Airport, there stands a homely symbol of

Kuwait's "demographic policy."

This two-story walled compound once was a school. But now Kuwait's

Interior Ministry has turned it into a detention center for Palestinians,

Iranians, Jordanians, Sudanese, Iraqis and other nationalities no longer

welcome in post-liberation Kuwait.

This is a kinder, gentler detention camp than the hell holes of Bosnia.

But the purpose is depressingly similar: to protect Kuwait's national identity
by cleansing it of "undesirable" nationalities.

In the past year, American Ambassador Edward Gnehm has used his clout to

reduce crowding, filth and beatings in this and several other Kuwaiti

detention camps. Gnehm also was instrumental in convincing Kuwait last summer to
allow the International Committee of the Red Cross to monitor detention

conditions.

Yet while lamenting "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia, the United States and

its wartime allies have been conspicuously tolerant about the purposes of the
Jleeb al-Shuyoukh compound. It is a deportation camp for longtime Kuwaiti

residents who happen to be from nationality groups viewed by the government as
having sympathized with the Iraqis during the 1990-91 occupation.

The U.S. Embassy has been quite open in declaring its approval of what it calls
Kuwait's "demographic policy." There wasn't even a perfunctory human

rights warning in an unclassified cable last month from the embassy in Kuwait to
Washington titled "Kuwait's 1992 Foreign Economic Trends."

The cable, obtained by Cox Newspapers, says: "The government has

. . . taken steps to introduce a new national demographic policy, which, while
merited from a strategic and security standpoints, will inevitably have high

costs for the entire economy." The "high costs" consisted of a downturn in

the commercial sector because former consumers, Palestinians and others, have
been pushed out of Kuwait or refused permission to come back.

As of December, 700 people were being held without charges in Kuwaiti

detention camps. The present head count is unknown.

One day recently, two of the compound's gates stood wide open, and there

were only a few Kuwaiti uniformed guards lounging in the shade on folding

chairs. This seemed to confirm statements by friends of some detainees that

the Kuwaitis allow at least some of the prisoners to come and go during the

day, so long as they return to the detention camp in the evening.

From the parking lot outside the walls, only a few dozen detainees were

visible. They smiled and waved at a reporter from the school balcony, showing no
obvious signs of malnutrition.

The Kuwaiti interior minister, Prince Ahmad al-Sabah, who would have to

authorize a visit to the compound, has not granted a request for an interview.
Though this may be a model detention camp by Third World standards, its

function is to facilitate one of the most drastic demographic makeovers that

any nation has ever carried out.

Before the war, Kuwaitis made up only 39 percent of the country's 1.9

million population, with the demographic majority consisting of Palestinians

and other Arabs, Pakistanis, Indians and Iranians.

Now, the aim is to ensure that the 600,000 Kuwaitis constitute a 60-

percent ethnic majority by radically reducing the population of non-Kuwaiti

Arabs and Third World guest workers.

After the shock of the Iraqi occupation, even some of the most enlightened
Kuwaiti intellectuals side with the emir in trying to squeeze out national

groups viewed as "disloyal" or "undesirable."

Under Kuwaiti law, a non-citizen can be expelled without judicial process, even
after living in Kuwait for decades-- provided the government declares him or her
a "troublemaker" or a "security risk." Foreigners also can be

tossed out if they can't find a Kuwaiti to sponsor them in a job.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 22, 1994, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

RELATIVES BRAVE LONG LINES TO SEE THEIR KIN IN KROME

BYLINE: MONIKA GONZALEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 669 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Staring blankly at the entrance of Krome Detention Center a quarter-mile away,
Mario Cicilia stood with his arms folded over his wet shirt, his khaki shorts
drying slowly in splotches.

It was 2 p.m. Sunday and he'd been waiting in line since 8 in the morning.

Cicilia, 45, and his family waited two hours in the heat, then another three in
a lightning storm, and then another hour in the sun.

And like many of the 500 people who waited to visit relatives for the first time
at Krome Detention Center Sunday, he didn't dare get out of line. One woman left
for a moment for water, and the buses taking the relatives to the center left
without her.

But all the waiting would be worth it, Cicilia said, when he speaks to the
cousin that he hasn't seen in 32 years.

''It's not right nor logical for him to have come here and not get support from
his family,'' Cicilia said, as he waited with the last busload of visitors.

Inside, more than 400 immigrants were being held Sunday and another 117 were on
their way. Those refugees who make it to U.S. shores - either on their own or
with the help of a private or commercial vessel passing by - are being taken to
Krome for processing and medical screenings.

No serious injuries or health problems have been found, said Lemar Wooley,
Immigration and Naturalization Services' public relations director in Miami.

There still is no word as to how long the Cubans will stay at Krome or where
they will be taken once the center reaches its capacity.

In the meantime, the men sleep in a large tent, and women and children are
housed in the permanent structure, Wooley said.  They play soccer and basketball
and watch television. Visitors may bring them reading material but nothing more.

Outside, visitors were being turned away by 10 a.m. Sunday. Some said they
planned to come as early as 4 a.m. today to make sure they got tickets to board
the buses that take visitors into the center. Florida Highway Patrol officers
said they expected more troopers today to control traffic and crowds.

Although visiting days at Krome are usually Saturday and Sunday, the detention
center plans to have extra visiting hours today from 8 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and
from 1 to 4:30 p.m. The same hours were planned for Sunday, but no one stopped
for lunch.

Visitors were allowed to spend 45 minutes with their relatives before being
returned to the waiting area down the street. The beaming faces of the people
who rushed to their cars to go home and tell other relatives of what had
happened showed they thought the time was well spent.

Alex Millan, 26, of Tampa had a lot to see during those 45 minutes.

About 40 of his relatives are being held at Krome - from a 2-month-old niece to
a 45-year-old aunt. There were so many, he said, that he didn't get a chance to
see them all. The family left Cuba on two homemade boats on Tuesday and
Wednesday, and Millan said he has spent the last four days waiting and worrying
at refugee assistance centers around Miami and Little Havana.

''As soon as they get out, we're going to Tampa,'' said Millan, who came to the
United States from Cuba in 1980. ''Then we'll help them find jobs. ''

Cicilia said his cousin looked thin but calm now that he was on U.S. soil. The
cousin, Lucio Sotolongo, a 43-year-old doctor, had tried to escape years ago,
but had been caught and imprisoned in Cuba. By comparison, Krome isn't much of a
deterrent to those Cubans fleeing to Florida, Sotolongo told Cicilia.

''They don't care. Even if they (United States officials) put them in the middle
of a forest, they would be happy to be here,'' Cicilia said. ''They just want to
get out of Cuba.''

While no one knows for sure if or when the migrants will be released to their
families, Cicilia and Millan said they and their relatives inside Krome are
hopeful that the center's capacity alone will limit their stay.

Including the beds under the big tent, Krome can accommodate 1,000 people. The
numbers are already halfway there.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              400 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     August 21, 1994, SUNDAY, FINAL EDITION

EXILES AWAIT WORD ON RELATIVES

BYLINE: JOHN FERNANDEZ and MONIKA GONZALEZ; Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Bitter and impassioned crowds of Cuban-Americans poured around the gates of the
federal Krome Detention Center in western Dade County Saturday, desperately
seeking word on relatives rescued at sea or detained under a much tougher U.S.
immigration policy.

Soon after learning her brother and nephew were not among those detained,
Mercedes Crespo was overcome with tears as she grasped Krome's tall, chain-link
fence.

''I don't care where they are,'' said Crespo, who has been unable to find her
relatives since they escaped Cuba five days ago by sea. ''I just want to know
that they're alive. No one can live like this.''

Hundreds Saturday withstood stifling daytime heat and pesky nighttime mosquitoes
in an off-and-on vigil at Krome, punctuated by chants of ''Cuba si, Castro no!''
The protesters hoisted Cuban flags, demanded a U.S. invasion of Cuba led by
exiles and insisted on a military blockade of the island. Some protesters made
it difficult for government vehicles to enter or leave the remote facility
surrounded by Everglades brush.

The demonstrators represent just one faction of a divided Cuban exile community
reacting to President Clinton's most recent actions against Fidel Castro's
regime and the fleeing Cubans. Many exile leaders who met with Clinton and many
Cuban radio commentators in Miami applauded the president's response.

Still, exiles at Krome and protesters at smaller demonstrations in Hialeah and
Little Havana denounced the detention of asylum-seeking Cubans at the Dade camp
and at the U.S. base in Guantanamo, Cuba.

''It's absurd to imprison them,'' said Nora Trincado, who has waited to hear
from her brother-in-law and his family since the pre-dawn hours of Thursday,
when his group of seven rafters departed Cuba's Varadero Beach. ''Certainly they
should be screened, but not incarcerated for so long. This people have families
who can assume responsibilities for them.''

Exiles also denounced the tighter U.S. sanctions against Castro as measures that
will only further penalize the Cuban people, who already face massive food
shortages and low wages. Some demanded an invasion of the communist island to
overthrow Castro while most others called for a U.S. blockade around the island.

''The Cuban people need help from us,'' said a screaming Jesus Coronel, one of
the demonstrators waving Cuban flags at Krome. ''The only way to help them is to
let us invade Cuba. This is the best opportunity.''

Inside the medium-security Krome camp, 336 Cuban refugees were being held
Saturday afternoon after being bused from Key West, officials with the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

''These are all designed to make Castro pay the price,'' U.S. Sen. Bob Graham,
D-Fla., said Saturday after touring a day-old tent city set up for newly arrived
Cubans at the Krome center.

Immigration officials in Miami said they didn't know when the Krome detainees
would be released. But Walter Cadman, INS director for South Florida, said he
expects they eventually will be turned over to relatives.

''I can't imagine that the government will detain these people indefinitely,''
Cadman said. ''We are asking for patience from the public, but I know that's
hard.''

Miami Cubans will be allowed to visit relatives inside Krome today, INS
officials told the crowd. But many among the protesters left Krome dejected
after officials read a list of detainees' names. The relatives of many of those
protesters were not listed.

Yazbel Diaz, 19, stood on the hood of a gold Monte Carlo holding a Cuban flag
and wearing a look of tight-lipped defiance as the names were shouted out. Diaz
was hoping her brother, Angel Esteban Diaz Tabares, who left Cuba on a raft
Wednesday, would be on the list. She hasn't seen him for 11 years.

Her wait is not over; his name was not called.

''I feel bad, but I don't want to lose hope,'' Diaz said, fighting back tears.
''I fear that he's here, and he can't contact us. Or that he's been taken to
Guantanamo. What hurts me most is that all this happens because of just one man:
Fidel Castro.''

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C), ALLEN EYESTONE/Staff Photographer, Walter Cadman of the INS
fields questions Saturday from Cubans near the Krome Detention Center in Miami
about people being detained there.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              401 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 11, 1993 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SUPPORTERS FEAR FOR HUNGER STRIKERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Civil-rights leaders joined Haitian refugee advocates Sunday in demanding

that they be allowed to take their own doctors in to examine hunger strikers

at the Krome Avenue Detention Center.

Sunday marked the 11th day of the fast, and the strikers are showing more of the
physical effects of not eating, said Rolande Dorancy, executive

director of the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami.

Officials of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said last

week that doctors were monitoring their health and would force-feed any who

lapsed into unconsciousness.

The strike began with 119 men and 41 women, protesting the fact that Cuban
refugees are generally set free while Haitians are either sent back home or

are held for months. By Sunday, only six men and 39 women continued, refugee

advocates said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 29, 1993 Thursday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

FORT PIERCE POLICE SNARE TWO HAITIANS

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE KEATING Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: FORT PIERCE


Six hours after officials thought they detained all the Haitians who came ashore
on Hutchinson Island Tuesday night, Fort Pierce Police picked up two more men,
bringing the number of refugees to 31, officials said Wednesday.

The two unidentified men were walking along the beach in front of Ocean Village
about 11:30 p.m. when they were approached by a condominium guard, police
spokeswoman April Podnar said. Ocean Village is about 10 miles south of the spot
where a 25-foot sailboat carrying the Haitians landed at 5:30.

``The guard fed them coffee and donuts and called the police,'' she said. ``They
were very cooperative and happy to be here.''

Officers took the men to the county jail to await Border Patrol officials from
Riviera Beach before joining the 29 others at the Krome Avenue Detention Center
in Dade County, Podnar said.

A salvor spotted the sailboat landing at Middle Cove Tuesday and called the
Sheriff's office. Officials believed they had all but one or two people detained
by 7 p.m., spokesman Mark Weinberg said. By 10 p.m. they called off their
search.

Twenty-two men, six women and three children under 1 year old are being held at
the detention center. After interviews, those granted political asylum will
remain in the United States; the others will be returned to Haiti, said Dan
Vara, acting deputy director for the Miami district of Immigration and
Naturalization Services.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 11, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

PUSH BAHAMAS TO HELP WITH HAITIANS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 180 words


Regarding the recent article Bahamas, U.S. may team to fight human smuggling'' -
it would appear that we, again, are pussyfooting with the Bahamian government.
Why?

The Haitian people started their trek from the Bahamas in larger numbers when
the Bahamian government literally started pushing them out by refusing or
withdrawing their work permits.

Instead of sending immigration agents there (which would decrease the number in
Florida) to attack illegal smuggling, ask the Bahamian government to let the
Haitians have their work permits back. The article says, The relationship
between the United States and the Bahamas is extremely high at all levels.
Whatever they are, we cooperate together.''

If that is so, let's see the Bahamian government cooperate until there is some
sanity in Haiti. Let's see the Bahamian government stop embarrassing our country
by ignoring warning shots from our ships and violating the embargo. If they
choose not to cooperate, curtail the tourist trade to the Bahamas and put a dent
in their economy.

Dee L. Zibelli

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              404 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                     June 11, 1994 SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

PUSH BAHAMAS TO HELP WITH HAITIANS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 181 words


Regarding the recent article ''Bahamas, U.S. may team to fight human smuggling''
- it would appear that we, again, are pussyfooting with the Bahamian government.
Why?

The Haitian people started their trek from the Bahamas in larger numbers when
the Bahamian government literally started pushing them out by refusing or
withdrawing their work permits.

Instead of sending immigration agents there (which would decrease the number in
Florida) to attack illegal smuggling, ask the Bahamian government to let the
Haitians have their work permits back. The article says, ''The relationship
between the United States and the Bahamas is extremely high at all levels.
Whatever they are, we cooperate together.''

If that is so, let's see the Bahamian government cooperate until there is some
sanity in Haiti. Let's see the Bahamian government stop embarrassing our country
by ignoring warning shots from our ships and violating the embargo. If they
choose not to cooperate, curtail the tourist trade to the Bahamas and put a dent
in their economy.

Dee L. Zibelli

Boynton Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              405 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   September 3, 1994, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

BAHAMIAN INDICTED IN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: WILLIAM HOWARD; Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


A Bahamian boat captain who led Coast Guard and Border Patrol agents on a
10-mile offshore chase Aug. 19 has been indicted on charges of smuggling 15
Haitians who were left on the beach at John D. MacArthur Beach State Park.

Edward A. Pratt, 35, of Freeport was indicted Thursday by a West Palm Beach
grand jury and faces 16 felony counts carrying a maximum penalty of 80 years in
prison.

Prosecutors allege that Pratt took money from the Haitians for the trip to
Singer Island from West End, Bahamas.

Around 6 a.m. on Aug. 19, a Coast Guard boat from Peanut Island spotted Pratt's
boat about a half-mile off the park and began pursuing it. Pratt continued at
high speed until a U.S. Border Patrol helicopter caught up with his 23-foot boat
and ordered him to stop.

Pratt told Coast Guard crew members he had an epileptic seizure off the Bahamas
and when he regained consciousness he found himself in American waters.

Soon after, the Border Patrol found 15 Haitians at the park.

''This is a case of trafficking in human cargo and exploiting others for
profit,'' U.S. Attorney Kendall Coffey said in a statement. ''This indictment
underscores our commitment to combatting alien smuggling.''

The Pratt case marks the seventh alien-smuggling indictment in South Florida
this year.

Pratt is being held at a federal detention facility in southern Dade County.

On Aug. 25, a jury found Richard Bennett Barker, the boat captain prosecutors
dubbed ''Captain Jump-off,'' guilty of forcing four smuggled Haitians into a
choppy surf where they drowned.

He is scheduled to be sentenced Oct. 25 in Miami and faces up to 58 years in
federal prison and up to $ 2 million in fines for the Feb. 7 trip that killed
two children and two adults off Hutchinson Island.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ran all editions.

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              406 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 17, 1993 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MEXICO TO DEPORT 650; OTHER SHIPS APPROACH U.S.

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 357 words


As a 100-day ordeal at sea was due to end Friday in Mexico for an estimated 650
Chinese migrants who had sought entry into the United States, Coast Guard
officials reported that several other vessels believed to be carrying hundreds
more Chinese were steaming toward Hawaii after skirting the U.S. mainland.

The officials said they were attempting to determine under which flags the
vessels are operating, the number of ships and their destinations. But one

Washington official said there is a "high probability" that the ships are

being used to smuggle migrants from China as part of a growing crime syndicate
operation in the trafficking of human cargo to the United States.

The latest ships pose a more difficult dilemma for the Clinton

administration than the two expected in port at Ensenada late Friday and a

third held in international waters because of an unspecified political

problem. By heading toward the isolated islands of Hawaii, the migrants would
preclude the option of being handed off to another country.

If the ships manage to elude the Coast Guard in international waters and

enter U.S. territorial limits, the passengers could thwart a toughened U.S.

campaign to stem trafficking in illegal migrants. U.S. officials have sought

to avoid allowing undocumented aliens in American territory, where they can

apply for asylum and remain through protracted legal means.

Cmdr. Marc Wolfson, a Coast Guard spokesman here, estimated that if the

ships now in question continue on their present speed and course, they could

enter U.S. territorial waters off Hawaii today.

Wolfson declined to discuss whether the vessels were part of a group of

four ships carrying about 750 Chinese off the Pacific coast of northern Mexico
July 6, when the Coast Guard detained the other three ships carrying Chinese

migrants.

Mexico agreed on Wednesday to allow those three vessels to dock in

Ensenada only long enough for the passengers to be screened, driven to Tijuana
and deported to China aboard chartered jets. Mexican authorities had said at

least four additional ships with Chinese passengers "disappeared" before

U.S. Coast Guard investigators could board them.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 18, 1992 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

FAU TEACHER PLANS TO JOIN REFUGEES IN ILLEGAL CROSSING

BYLINE: By BILL DOUTHAT, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 579 words


A Florida Atlantic University professor plans to spend her summer break on

a journey through Central America to get a closer look at why Guatemalans are
fleeing their country and moving to Florida.

Cecilia Campoverde will travel with a group of 20 Guatemalan Indians by

foot, bus and van to witness the dangers and hardships they face crossing

Mexico and sneaking past guards at the United States border.

Campoverde, 55, of Boynton Beach says she will leave her passport behind

and carry only an FAU identification card for emergencies and a video camera

to record her journey.

"My hope is to capture a glimpse in the eyes and voices of these people

who are risking their lives seeking something I do not yet understand," said

Campoverde, an assistant professor in social work who has worked with

Guatemalan immigrants in Indiantown and West Palm Beach. "I want to know why

they come over here."

Experiencing the lives of her clients is nothing new to Campoverde, who

once stayed five days with a divorced mother and her five children in a New

York City tenement. At FAU, Campoverde assigns her students to find ways to

get from Delray Beach to a West Palm Beach social service office with $5 and

no means of private transportation.

"I always have believed that I need to put myself in the shoes of

somebody," she said. "I know it can never be the same, but I want to taste

the experience."

Campoverde, who was born in Ecuador of Italian descent, plans to pose as a
Mexican on the trip. With her light complexion and auburn hair, border guards
would easily discern she was not a Mayan Indian from Guatemala.

The professor plans to stash her video camera and notebooks in a dirty

knapsack and travel as light as possible: two shirts, a pair of pants, shorts, a
toothbrush and a gallon jug of water.

To prepare for hiking, she walks 5 miles a day around her Boynton Beach

neighborhood. She said the guide-smuggler who will accompany her group asked

how fast she can run.

"I said I could barely run a block," Campoverde said. Getting across the

U.S. border may depend on her speed and her ability to scale fences and hurdle
bushes in the dark.

She said her biggest fear is confronting bandits or being forced to travel
inside an enclosed railroad car or truck, which are death traps for hundreds

of immigrants sneaking into America. Scorpions and snakes are also abundant in
the farm houses and camps where she will rest along the way.

Campoverde is spending her own time and $1,500 of her own money on the trip but
is looking for donations of Super 8 video film, batteries and money for

the trip. She plans to write a book about the experience.

Before she leaves June 1, she will visit Guatemalan families here to

videotape messages that she will play for their relatives in Guatemala.

Campoverde said she wants to draw attention to the plight of immigrant

farmworkers in the United States who provide much-needed labor but lack good

housing, health care and education for their children.

More than 90 percent of the children of Florida migrant farmworkers drop

out of school before graduating, she said.

"That's irrational. That's a crime," she said.

Campoverde says she's also trying to demonstrate that a social worker is

not a desk-bound counselor or someone who is afraid of going beyond the

doorstep of a client's home.

"Social work is about change," Campoverde said. "People who are calling

themselves social workers are not really social workers but just workers in

the system. True social workers empower people."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 JEFF GREENE/Staff Photographer Cecilia Campoverde, an assistant professor at
FAU, plans to run past U.S. border guards.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 18, 1992 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL DETAINS 2 SONS OF DYING FARMWORKER;
ALLOWS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO STAY

BYLINE: By JOE BROGAN, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Two sons and a nephew of a critically ill Mexican farmworker were detained

by the U.S. Border Patrol Friday morning, but were released later in the day

for humanitarian reasons, said Border Patrol agent Neal Richards.

Ramon Castillo, 42, is battling acute leukemia and was released from St. Mary's
Hospital in West Palm Beach Friday. Castillo, his wife, Humbertina, 39, and
their 13 children are staying in a trailer park in northern Palm Beach

County.

His sons, Umberto, 18, and Jesus, 16, and a nephew, Bernardo Castillo,

19, were among 28 Mexican and Brazilian nationals picked up by the Border

Patrol at three locations.

The youths were to be deported by bus to Juarez, Mexico, along with the

others before family members and Roman Catholic Church officials interceded,

Richards said.

The three were released to Catholic nuns Friday afternoon, he said.

Although the three are not legally entitled to be in the United States, Richards
said he is allowed to use discretion.

"The last thing the Border Patrol is going to do is separate the

immediate family in cases of this nature," he said.

The sons and nephew will be allowed to stay in the country for 30 days.

They then can talk with the Border Patrol about an indefinite extension,
depending on Ramon Castillo's health, Richards said.

Castillo has been at St. Mary's for six weeks and is so weak he barely

canwalk. The hospital is paying for his treatment. Staff members describe his
condition as grave and say he has not responded to chemotherapy.

Members of St. Paul of the Cross Catholic Church in North Palm Beach have been
making deliveries of food, household supplies and diapers to the Castillo
family.

Friday's sweep was made to fill the remaining 25 seats aboard a chartered bus
scheduled to take 18 Mexican farmworkers to Juarez.

The 18 were detained six weeks ago in a Border Patrol sweep in Sebring,

Richards said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1992 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                    February 28, 1994 MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS OF THE PAST CAME LEGALLY

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 78 words


This country was founded on immigrants from all countries. They all came in the
legal way and needed sponsors and had to be in good health.

Today's illegal immigrants are arriving with no jobs, homes or medical care and
are bleeding our system dry.

It's time the taxpayers say No more.''

Our political leaders can't seem to agree on a universal medical-care system,
yet these illegal immigrants are being cared for. Why?

Arline Pollack

West Palm Beach

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Letters to the Editor

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              410 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                   December 20, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

DON'T PUNISH ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 46 words


It's immoral that Proposition 187 does not allow undocumented workers to be
educated in American schools, let alone get medical attention. There is more
than one solution to the problem of illegal immigrants, and this proposition
isn't a good one.

Nayyir Shareef, 13

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STUDENTS SPEAK OUT

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              411 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 30, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

WE'RE TIRED OF THE ILLEGALS

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 104 words


Should we be glad that so many people want to come to the United States?

Students from Jefferson Davis Middle School in West Palm Beach comment.

Many Americans are fed up with the way this country handles immigrants. The
problem is not only in keeping illegal aliens out but how to treat them once
they're in. Another problem is whether to punish shop managers, agriculture
industries and factory owners for hiring illegal aliens.

If America does shut its doors, what happens to all the people from the rest of
the world? Will laws be changed forbidding different languages to be spoken?

Debbie Satyal, 13

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STUDENTS SPEAK OUT ON IMMIGRATION

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              412 of 415 DOCUMENTS

                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                      May 30, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

THEY SHOULD BEND TO US

SECTION: OPINION, Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 114 words


Should we be glad that so many people want to come to the United States?

Students from Jefferson Davis Middle School in West Palm Beach comment.

Immigration has had its share of problems, including illegal aliens who sneak
across our borders. People come to escape poverty and oppression. But what
happens when people come here not intending to become citizens or to learn the
language and never become a part of society?

We should not become ethnic clones. But when people come here, they should
adjust. Part of the problem could be that some people come here not because they
really want to but because it is impossible to cope where they are.

Faith McClean, 13

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
STUDENTS SPEAK OUT ON IMMIGRATION

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1995 Palm Beach Newspaper, Inc.


                              413 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            January 24, 1993 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

THE PARENT TRAP: SITTERS, SECRETS AND GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: RON WIGGINS

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1117 words


Let he who has not paid under the table or off the books explain how he

found motivated domestic help at a reasonable price.

Sometimes there are hidden costs to hiring undocumented aliens if you're

found out: Fines, interest on delinquent Social Security deductions, and in

the case of Zoe Baird, a cabinet post. Baird withdrew her name from

consideration for U.S. attorney general amid controversy over her hiring an

illegal Peruvian couple to baby-sit and drive a limo.

And just how scrupulously do South Florida residents follow the law when

it comes to keeping domestic help? I asked around and found only one person

who stays strictly legal. And in keeping with Mark Twain's observation that no
good deed goes unpunished, she regrets it.

The other people I spoke to have adopted what sounds like a variation of

the tree in the forest rule. "If a law is broken and there's no one around to
enforce it, no law is actually broken."

No one, naturally, wants to be quoted by name, and if a grand jury wants a
gander at my notes, I accidentally hit the delete key on my word processor and
the dog ate my hard copy.

Citizen A, a married West Palm Beach resident, said that while she has had
foreign maids for the past 10 years, none have been illegal aliens. But all

wanted cash payments. When I asked how she felt about her maids' Social

Security status at retirement time, she said:

"When I asked the Finnish woman who worked for me about that, she told me that
she had paid into the system long enough when she worked for Holiday Inn to be
eligible."

`YOU CAN BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES'

Mrs. A added that a rancher friend sorely misses the hardest working hand he
ever had, an illegal Mexican paid under the table. "The man explained when he
took the job that he only wanted to save enough money to buy his wife an

operation. He worked here a year, then he went back to Mexico."

For the record, I sought out spokesmen for the Internal Revenue Service

and state of Florida.

Michael Dobzinski, IRS public affairs officer in Fort Lauderdale, cited a
national estimate that of the 2 million Americans who hire domestic help, only
about 250,000 deduct Social Security. "All we can do is advise you that you

can be subject to certain sanctions and penalties if you don't obey the law

and you are found out."

Dobzinski said that as an employer, you are duty-bound to note when you

have paid someone more than $50 per quarter, obtain their Social Security

number, start filling out quarterly forms and deducting 15.6 percent for

Social Security.

"The problem where an illegal alien is concerned," the IRS spokesman

conceded, "is that as long as they're not registered, they can't get a Social
Security number."

Now what? You need child care or help with the housework, and here's an

eager and reliable and grateful worker. You tell them to go away?

"We can only advise you to do it the right way," Dobzinski said. "I

will say that if you have a nanny alien, you're losing a tax benefit by not

being able to deduct that child care credit which can be as much as $960."

STATE LACKS MANPOWER

In Tallahassee, Al Roberts, an unemployment compensation supervisor, said that
the state does not have the manpower to go after employers of domestics

who aren't taking out unemployment compensation and workman's compensation.

That surprised me. If the IRS estimates that fewer

than 15 percent of the employers of domestics take out withholding, why

wouldn't that estimate hold true for state payroll deductions?

"We are shaking the bushes and catching up on employers who are not

reporting wages," Roberts said. "We also feel that we may have a better

payment record than the federal government. A lot of domestic workers are

hired through agencies that do make the payments. I would like to believe that
Floridians are complying."

A happy thought.

Meanwhile, back in the real world, South Floridians emboldened by my sworn
promises of confidentiality, sang a song of sedition.

Mrs. B, a Palm Beach resident, said she doesn't blame anyone for paying

domestic workers under the table, citing her own experience.

"I lost the best help I ever had because I couldn't get a green card for

the French-Canadian couple who were working for me." The Palm Beacher took on
the couple after their Canadian employer, a winter resident, died and they

wanted very much to stay.

"The abuse and the nasty kind of attitude these people received when they
applied for their green cards was a disgrace," she said. "They paid $125 and

still had to go back to Canada. I should have left them off the books."

Mrs. C and her husband are Ocean Ridge residents who paid a Bulgarian

woman off the books to live in their home as a nanny. "She was totally

beholden to us and sent almost all of her money home to her family. Most of

the people who have worked for us want to be paid off the record and that's

fine with us."

The C's have a basis for comparison. "The first time we hired a nanny, we paid
on the record. It was like a 12-act play, the paper work. Every time we

thought we had a tax number, it came back or it was in the wrong place. It was
such a production."

Mr. D and his wife, D-plus of North Palm Beach, require 45-hour a week

live-in child care, and as professional people, they are able to shell out the
$12,000 a year it costs. Again, all money is off the books because that's how
the baby-sitter wants it.

"We have had-- let's see, four baby-sitters in 27 months and every one

was emphatic about wanting full payment without deductions. We know a lot of

other couples and it's the same way, not so much because they don't want to be
legal, but because of the gawd-awful paper work."

What about the $950 tax credit for claiming child care expenses. He shook his
head. "The sitter doesn't want it, and if it comes to saving $950 and

keeping my sitter happy, I don't want to look for another sitter."

Mrs. E of Palm Beach Gardens pays her sitter strictly by the book, a

patriotic exercise that has inspired her to invective:

"I know why people pay their baby sitters under the table. Just ask

anyone who has tried to unravel the maze of numbers, forms and instructions

that go with paying a household employee legally. I pay $700 every three

months for her taxes and Social Security. Then there's about $35 every quarter
and $150 a year in state fees, everything requiring a separate form.

"Most of these payment and paper work responsibilities fall on mothers

-- who usually are working outside the home. It's time-consuming and

frustrating, and that's not counting the three times the IRS screwed up. First
they said I'd paid too much and sent me a refund. Then, a month later they

asked for the money back, and then they said they'd lost my forms and could I
please refile?

"I don't blame Zoe Baird one bit."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/MUG/BAIRD

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             July 22, 1993 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

3 DOMINICAN STOWAWAYS DEPORTED

BYLINE: By WILLIAM HOWARD, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


The U.S. Coast Guard arrested three stowaways from the Dominican Republic

after two of the men dove from the Tropic Night container ship into the Lake

Worth Inlet Wednesday morning.

Coast Guard officials received a call from the harbor pilot and picked up the
two men at 7:30 a.m. as they swam toward Peanut Island near the Coast

Guard station.

A third man was found on the ship, U.S. Border Patrol agents said. The men were
identified as Ignacio Ramirez, 25, Isidro Riva, 17, and Rudy Valdez, 18.

The Coast Guard held the men at the U.S. Border Patrol office.

Tropical Shipping Co. spokeswoman Karen Frausto said the men were

scheduled to be deported on a ship leaving for Puerto Plata, Dominican

Republic, at 4 p.m. Wednesday. The Border Patrol said they were not charged.

The stowaways apparently boarded the container ship at Puerto Plata, the

ship's last port of call before it arrived at the Port of Palm Beach on

Wednesday.

They apparently did not hide in the containers, she said.

In July 1991, six Dominican stowaways died from heat exposure on a ship

docked at the Port of Palm Beach.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/B&W
 E.A. KENNEDY III/Staff Photographer U.S. Border Patrol agents escort Ignacio
Ramirez, 25, onto the Tropic Night container ship Wednesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 415 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            August 28, 1993 Saturday
                            MARTIN-ST. LUCIE EDITION

2 STOWAWAY HAITIANS CAUGHT AT PORT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 55 words

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH


Two stowaways from Haiti were caught at 10:30 a.m. Friday after they dived from
a ship and climbed over a fence at the Port of Palm Beach, according to the U.S.
Border Patrol.

The men were taken to Krome Detention Center in Miami, border patrol agents
said. Another Haitian man who climbed the fence with them escaped, agents said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  IN BRIEF

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 1993 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
