
                               1 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday

Immigrant tuition bill in mix again;
Undocumented residents would get cheaper rate

BYLINE: BAO ONG, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 462 words


New leadership in the state Legislature could be good news for undocumented
immigrant students who want to go to college.

They would be eligible to pay the cheaper in-state rates under the proposal if
they attended a Minnesota high school for three or more years. They would also
have to file an application to become permanent residents.

More Democratic-Farmer-Labor and Republican lawmakers appear to be working
together, giving supporters hope the bill will pass this year. Pending proposals
this year urge Congress to overhaul the immigration system and to reduce the
cost of citizenship applications at the state level.

"Minnesota isn't going to be a bunch of Norwegians and Swedes forever," said
Sen. Geoff Michel, R-Edina. "And that's OK."

The Dream Act, which has been introduced three times, heads to the Senate floor
for debate after passing a higher education committee on Tuesday without much
fanfare.

But if last year was any indication, supporters of the Dream Act must still gain
Gov. Tim Pawlenty's support.

Pawlenty vowed to veto past versions of the Dream Act, saying it grants
undocumented citizens rights not available to legal residents outside of
Minnesota.

About 720 people -- mostly high school students --- gathered at the state
Capitol to rally support for the Dream Act. A similar version is being proposed
at the federal level.

Denise Soriano, a 15-year-old student at Chaska High School who testified at
Tuesday's committee hearing, said she has lived in the United States since she
was 5 months old but must still shell out more money to attend a state school.

"We're not asking you to pay for us," Soriano said.

College is too costly for many students, and resident tuition rates would help,
said Soriano, who added that she is ineligible for many grants, loans and
scholarships because of her citizenship status.

She hopes to attend medical school at a state school some day.

An education could be a step toward citizenship for more students, said Sen.
Claire Robling, R-Jordan. She added that changes must occur at the federal level
for students like Soriano to become U.S. citizens.

Sen. Sandy Pappas of St. Paul, the Senate Higher Education Committee chairwoman
and author of the bill, said the proposal was more about equal access to
education than immigration.

Supporters of the Dream Act say educating a growing immigrant population is also
important to competition in a global market.

Other students, wearing black T-shirts pronouncing, "I am the American dream" on
the back, agreed.

Maria Lemus, a 16-year-old Harding High School student, said she needs a college
degree to become a dentist.

"I'm here because I want to survive," Limos said. "I hope to become a resident
of this country."

Bao Ong can be reached at bong@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5435.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday

Putting teeth into measure could solve logjam over undocumented workers

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR.

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 720 words


SAN DIEGO

Advocates for comprehensive immigration reform demand that Congress give illegal
immigrants a path to legal residency and possibly even citizenship.

Fine. But no one ever said this path couldn't go through the immigrants' home
country. What if the United States allowed millions of illegal immigrants to
work toward citizenship, but only if they first returned home and applied to
re-enter the U.S. legally? And what if the entire process happened quickly and
only one member of a family needed to make the trek (even if everyone in the
family is undocumented) and that, once the representative re-enters with papers,
the whole family gets to stay?

This is what's become known in this debate as the "touchback." It has a shot at
breaking the logjam on Capitol Hill because it provides a path to legalization
without turning that path into a cakewalk. In fact, the touchback concept makes
so much sense that the extremes on the right and left both hate it, which is
always a good sign.

This requirement that illegal immigrants go home to get right with the law first
surfaced last year in a bill proposed by Rep. Mike Pence, R-Ind., and Sen. Kay
Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas. Now the idea has won favor with Sen. John McCain,
R-Ariz., who last year co-sponsored an immigration reform bill with Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass. What is still unclear is whether McCain is thinking about
defecting to Pence's camp or whether the Arizonan will try to bring Pence into
his camp by peppering the McCain-Kennedy bill with language from the Pence plan.
If that happens, you can expect the touchback to be part of the peppering.

But there's another plan out there that is spicing up this debate, and it comes
from two congressmen who last year co-sponsored the House version of
McCain-Kennedy. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., are
back with new legislation, and they have moved a smidgen to the right by adding
even more enforcement measures and a touchback provision similar to the one in
Pence's bill.

The question is whether the Gutierrez-Flake bill is sincere with its
return-to-sender requirement, or whether the sponsors are just trying to
convince folks that they are tougher on illegal immigrants than they really are
in order to get the legislation passed. Under the Hutchison-Pence plan, an
individual could be processed in a week to 10 days. Under Gutierrez-Flake, the
entire procedure could take a day or two, leading some conservative critics of
the bipartisan bill to mock that requirement as a vacation.

Pence told me that he hadn't studied the Gutierrez-Flake plan, but his initial
impression is that there are serious differences between that bill and the one
he proposed.

"It is not simply that an individual is required to leave the country," he said.
"It is that they are required to apply outside the country and be processed
outside the country."

Pence knows what he wants - and what he doesn't.

"What I'm looking for," he said, "is a proposal that says to people - whose
first act in this country was a violation of the law - that we need you to enter
a new system that will require you to go home and apply outside the United
States for the legal right to live and work here. What I'm looking for is not a
demonstration or a gimmick."

I asked him if he thought the Gutierrez-Flake bill was close enough to his plan
that the two sides might work out their differences.

"My initial reaction," he said, "is that it doesn't go far enough to get me."

Of course, some critics of the Pence plan think it goes too far, and that if you
make the process too onerous, illegal immigrants simply will not participate.

You might think that, in a Democratic-controlled Congress, the views of a
conservative Republican from Indiana wouldn't matter much. But you'd be wrong.
Supporters of comprehensive immigration reform need every vote they can get
because they can't count on the support of skittish Democrats on the
conservative end of the spectrum. That's why they should make a pitch for Pence
and the smattering of votes from moderate Republicans he could bring with him.

To get that support though, Gutierrez and Flake might have to put some teeth in
their touchback.

Ruben Navarrette of the San Diego Union Tribune writes a nationally syndicated
column. His e-mail address is ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

Ramsey County / Jail again will accept immigration detainees;
Feds pay high rate to use excess capacity

BYLINE: TIM NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 493 words


Immigration detainees will be going back into the Ramsey County jail, county
officials said Wednesday, reversing a policy that would have barred some illegal
immigrants from the county's custody.

"We have informed immigration authorities that we will accept any of their
detainees," Sheriff Bob Fletcher said, after a meeting Tuesday of the Ramsey
County Board.

The commissioners didn't take a formal vote, but their statements at the meeting
indicated that there would not be support for rejecting detainees brought in by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents from outside the Twin Cities.

Fletcher estimated about half of the detainees in his jail, as high as 40 people
in recent months, came from outside the metro area. Federal officials pay about
$80 a day to house them in St. Paul, a significant premium above what other
agencies pay to use what is, at least for now, excess capacity at the county's
jail near interstates 94 and 35E.

The reversal disappointed Ramsey County Commissioner Rafael Ortega, who
represents downtown St. Paul, Highland Park and part of the East Side, as well
as the traditionally Hispanic community on the West Side.

"I think my colleagues were being influenced by a lot of e-mail, from all over
the country, suggesting that we were breaking the law or being somehow
un-American," Ortega said of the county's earlier decision to temporarily bar
suspected illegal immigrants from the county jail.

"That just isn't the case," Ortega said.

But other commissioners said they felt they didn't have the legal authority to
dictate who could and could not be jailed in Ramsey County.

"We can't be picking and choosing who we'll take when a law enforcement agency
comes to our door with someone," said Commissioner Jim McDonough, who represents
most of St. Paul's East Side, which also has a significant Hispanic population.

The controversy was sparked by a December immigration raid in Worthington,
Minn., one of a series of immigration actions across the country. More than 200
employees of the Swift & Co. meatpacking plant in southwestern Minnesota were
taken into custody, sparking outrage among critics of U.S. immigration policy
and those concerned about the families of the detained workers.

Ortega had called closing the jail door to immigration-related detainees a
"moral issue" in December.

It is also, however, a financial issue. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
authorities paid about $2 million last year to house detainees in the Ramsey
County jail, in part because the federal government doesn't have its own
facilities in Minnesota. The federal payments are the equivalent of about 11
percent of the jail's operating budget.

County commissioners likely would have had to come up with the money some other
way, either by raising taxes or cutting other programs, as an effect of the new
policy, and Tuesday's meeting indicated they were unlikely to do that.

Tim Nelson can be reached at tnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-292-1159.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

Ramsey County / Immigration detainees will be allowed in jail

BYLINE: TIM NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 442 words


Immigration detainees will be going back into the Ramsey County jail, county
officials said Wednesday, reversing a policy that would have barred some illegal
immigrants from the county's custody.

"We have informed immigration authorities that we will accept any of their
detainees," Sheriff Bob Fletcher said, after a meeting Tuesday of the Ramsey
County Board.

The commissioners didn't take a formal vote, but their statements at the meeting
indicated there would not be support for rejecting detainees brought in by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents from outside the Twin Cities.

Fletcher estimated about half of the detainees in his jail, as high as 40 people
in recent months, came from outside the metro area. Federal officials pay about
$80 a day to house them in St. Paul, a significant premium above what other
agencies pay to use what is, at least for now, excess capacity at the county's
jail near interstates 94 and 35E.

The reversal disappointed Ramsey County Commissioner Rafael Ortega, who
represents downtown St. Paul, Highland Park and part of the East Side, as well
as the traditionally Hispanic community on the West Side.

"I think my colleagues were being influenced by a lot of e-mail, from all over
the country, suggesting that we were breaking the law or being somehow
un-American," Ortega said of the county's earlier decision to temporarily bar
suspected illegal immigrants from the county jail.

"That just isn't the case," he said.

But other commissioners said they felt they didn't have the legal authority to
dictate who could and could not be jailed in Ramsey County.

"We can't be picking and choosing who we'll take when a law enforcement agency
comes to our door with someone," said Commissioner Jim McDonough, who represents
most of St. Paul's East Side, which also has a significant Hispanic population.

The controversy was sparked by a December immigration raid in Worthington,
Minn., one of a series of immigration actions across the country. More than 200
employees of the Swift & Co. meatpacking plant in southwestern Minnesota were
taken into custody, sparking outrage among critics of U.S. immigration policy
and those concerned about the families of the detained workers.

Ortega had called closing the jail door to immigration-related detainees a
"moral issue" in December.

It also is, however, a financial issue. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
authorities paid about $2 million last year to house detainees in the Ramsey
County jail, in part because the federal government doesn't have its own
facilities in Minnesota. The federal payments are the equivalent of about 11
percent of the jail's operating budget.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

Ramsey County / Immigration detainees will be allowed in jail;
Officials reverse course on policy

BYLINE: TIM NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 493 words


Immigration detainees will be going back into the Ramsey County jail, county
officials said Wednesday, reversing a policy that would have barred some illegal
immigrants from the county's custody.

"We have informed immigration authorities that we will accept any of their
detainees," Sheriff Bob Fletcher said, after a meeting Tuesday of the Ramsey
County Board.

The commissioners didn't take a formal vote, but their statements at the meeting
indicated that there would not be support for rejecting detainees brought in by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents from outside the Twin Cities.

Fletcher estimated about half of the detainees in his jail, as high as 40 people
in recent months, came from outside the metro area. Federal officials pay about
$80 a day to house them in St. Paul, a significant premium above what other
agencies pay to use what is, at least for now, excess capacity at the county's
jail near interstates 94 and 35E.

The reversal disappointed Ramsey County Commissioner Rafael Ortega, who
represents downtown St. Paul, Highland Park and part of the East Side, as well
as the traditionally Hispanic community on the West Side.

"I think my colleagues were being influenced by a lot of e-mail, from all over
the country, suggesting that we were breaking the law or being somehow
un-American," Ortega said of the county's earlier decision to temporarily bar
suspected illegal immigrants from the county jail.

"That just isn't the case," Ortega said.

But other commissioners said they felt they didn't have the legal authority to
dictate who could and could not be jailed in Ramsey County.

"We can't be picking and choosing who we'll take when a law enforcement agency
comes to our door with someone," said Commissioner Jim McDonough, who represents
most of St. Paul's East Side, which also has a significant Hispanic population.

The controversy was sparked by a December immigration raid in Worthington,
Minn., one of a series of immigration actions across the country. More than 200
employees of the Swift & Co. meatpacking plant in southwestern Minnesota were
taken into custody, sparking outrage among critics of U.S. immigration policy
and those concerned about the families of the detained workers.

Ortega had called closing the jail door to immigration-related detainees a
"moral issue" in December.

It is also, however, a financial issue. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
authorities paid about $2 million last year to house detainees in the Ramsey
County jail, in part because the federal government doesn't have its own
facilities in Minnesota.

The federal payments are the equivalent of about 11 percent of the jail's
operating budget.

County commissioners likely would have had to come up with the money some other
way, either by raising taxes or cutting other programs, as an effect of the new
policy, and Tuesday's meeting indicated they were unlikely to do that.

Tim Nelson can be reached at tnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-292-1159.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 25, 2007 Tuesday

Let insurers issue driving licenses to illegal immigrants

BYLINE: GABRIEL ROTH

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 762 words


The controversy about issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants overlooks
one possible solution: allow auto insurers to test and "license" such
individuals.

On safety grounds, drivers and vehicles need to be tested to see that they meet
required standards to reduce the risk of accidents. They also need to be insured
so that those who cause accidents can at least pay the costs they impose on
others. But unlicensed drivers can't get insurance, which might explain why an
estimated 14 percent of U.S. motorists operate uninsured vehicles.

The problem is that government-issued driver's licenses serve many purposes
beyond certifying the knowledge and competence of the driver. They are used as
identity documents, which not only provide a path to social services, voting and
citizenship but also give the holder access to public buildings and
transportation facilities that require identification.

Authorizing insurers to test and license drivers and vehicles would eliminate
these problems. A driving permit issued by an insurer or an insurance
industry-affiliated organization would not provide a path to citizenship and
could not be used as an identity document. But it would improve safety.

This is not a far-fetched idea. Placing responsibility on insurers is common in
maritime transportation, for example, where safety is taken seriously - and
ships and ships' officers are tested and licensed by Lloyds of London and other
insurers.

Because they could be held liable for any injuries caused or suffered by those
they license, insurers would have compelling incentives to keep unsafe drivers
and vehicles off public roads and probably would do it better than the
government agencies now responsible.

For example, an October 2007 report by Maryland's Office of Legislative Audits
determined the state Motor Vehicle Administration's accountability and
compliance level was "unsatisfactory" in that required documentation was not
always obtained for licenses issued and that driving licenses were issued even
to dead people.

The report was particularly concerned about the implementation of Maryland's
Ignition Interlock program, which requires those convicted of drunken driving to
have their vehicles equipped with devices that prevent them from starting if
excessive alcohol levels are detected.

While Maryland's MVA staff failed to properly enforce this program, can you
imagine an insurance company, with tens of millions of dollars at risk, failing
to enforce such an important deterrent?

In its 2000 report "Unlicensed to Kill," the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety
showed Maryland's inability to control unlicensed driving was not unique.

According to the report, the percentage of unlicensed drivers in the 1990s
varied from 6 percent in Maine to 23 percent in New Mexico. Unlicensed drivers
were found to be almost five times more likely to be involved in fatal crashes
than licensed drivers, and 20 percent of all fatal accidents involved at least
one driver without a valid license.

Testing and licensing by insurers could thus improve safety and reduce the
number of uninsured drivers on our roads, without perpetuating the political
problems created by government licensing of illegal immigrants.

It might also help resolve another controversy: allowing Mexican trucks to
operate on U.S. highways. If insurers took responsibility for testing, licensing
and insuring foreign vehicles and drivers, American road users would have less
cause for worry.

Some might object to insurer licensing on the grounds it would give excessive
power to insurance companies, which would try to maximize profits by insuring
only the lowest risks. But so long as there is competition among insurers,
applicants turned down by one company could go to another, and policies would
tend to be granted whenever risks were covered by premiums.

In a competitive market, insurers would have an incentive to develop and insist
on the use of safety measures such as Ignition Interlocks for alcoholics and
devices to prevent elderly and long-distance drivers from falling asleep at the
wheel.

Issuing driving licenses to illegal immigrants should not be the source of so
much controversy. It can be dealt with by creating alternative licensing options
that place the responsibility fairly and squarely where it belongs: in the hands
of the responsible insurers.

Gabriel Roth is a research fellow at the Independent Institute and the editor of
"Street Smart: Competition, Entrepreneurship and the Future of Roads." Write to
him at the Independent Institute, 100 Swan Way, Oakland, Calif. 94621.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

Sex harassment suit can proceed for St. Paul cook

BYLINE: BY SHANNON PRATHER Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 280 words


A cook at Perkins Restaurant and Bakery who accused a boss of sexually harassing
her can pursue a civil rights suit regardless of her immigration status, a
federal judge in Minneapolis has ruled.

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed a harassment and
retaliation lawsuit on behalf of the St. Paul cook, Maria Torres. Attorneys for
Perkins had tried to have the case dismissed, arguing her suspected status as an
undocumented worker barred her from participating in the lawsuit as an
intervening plaintiff.

U.S. District Judge John Tunheim refused to dismiss the suit, finding that, "a
ruling that undocumented workers could not pursue civil rights claims on their
own behalf would likely chill these important actions."

According to the lawsuit, Torres was subject to sexual comments and
inappropriate touching that culminated with her boss showing up at her home for
her child's baptism. The boss threatened to report her as an undocumented worker
if she complained, according to court documents.

Torres, who worked at the Perkins in St. Paul's Midway neighborhood, told a
regional manager about the harassment. Managers determined Torres' name did not
match her social security number and fired her within a week of her reporting
the harassment. Perkins managers said they would rehire her if she got her
documentation straightened out, according to court filings.

"It was only after she complained about sexual harassment that Perkins starting
making allegations about her documentation. That sure looks like retaliation and
we expect that the trial in the case will bear that out," said Jean Kamp, an
attorney for the EEOC based in Chicago, in a written statement.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 27, 2006 Friday

700 MILES OF POLICY QUESTIONS;
A signing ceremony for a bill mandating reinforced fencing along the U.S.-Mexico
border doesn't end controversy over illegal immigration solutions.

BYLINE: NICOLE GAOUETTE, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 968 words


WASHINGTON -- Legislation authorizing 700 miles of fencing along the southern
U.S. border was signed into law by President Bush on Thursday at a ceremony that
underscored Republican divisions over immigration policy and left questions
about whether the entire barrier will be built.

Flanked by House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, and other Republicans who
blocked his bid for a broader overhaul of immigration law, Bush used the
opportunity to push back.

"We have more to do," the president said during the low-key event.

Promises by GOP leaders to alter the law when Congress reconvenes after the Nov.
7 elections -- in addition to a lack of funding specifically set aside for the
fence -- have cast doubt on how much of it ultimately will be built. Changes to
the measure would likely include giving local governments and private property
owners the chance to raise objections over the fencing's location.

Bush did have words of praise for the fence bill, calling it "an important step
toward immigration reform."

But he made clear that he opposed the enforcement-only position taken by the
House and favored instead the approach embraced by the Senate: a combination of
tougher border security and work-site enforcement with a guest worker program
and a path to citizenship for some of the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants.

Bush said he looked forward to working with Congress on finding a "rational
middle ground" between granting automatic citizenship to illegal immigrants and
launching "a program of mass deportation."

He also said, "We must reduce pressure on our border by creating a temporary
worker plan."

Some GOP leaders had pressed a reluctant White House for the signing ceremony so
that as November's election nears, Republicans could promote the fence bill as
an accomplishment, party aides said.

"House and Senate Republicans ... will stop the hemorrhaging along our nation's
borders," said a statement by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., and
House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.

UNSETTLED DETAILS

The House Republican leadership, in particular, views the fence not only as a
needed security improvement but also as a powerful political statement that will
win support for the party. Other Republicans, however, worry that it could cost
the GOP support among Hispanic voters.

Mexican officials have harshly denounced the fence plan, and they continued
their criticism Thursday.

"Walls don't resolve anything; it's a grave error," said President-elect Felipe
Calderon, who was traveling in Canada.

The fence's advocates in Congress have countered that their first responsibility
is to ensure the sanctity of the U.S. border.

There are currently about 90 miles of fencing along the southern border.

The bill contains detailed instructions to place "at least 2 layers of
reinforced fencing" around Tecate and Calexico, Calif., and across vast
stretches of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. But a letter written by Hastert and
Frist to other congressional leaders when the measure cleared Congress on Sept.
29 detailed changes they wanted made to it when lawmakers return to Washington
in mid-November.

Hastert and Frist indicated they want to provide flexibility on where the fence
should go and whether parts of it take a physical or virtual form -- potentially
using sensors, cameras and unmanned aerial vehicles in the place of reinforced
metal.

Their letter called for requiring the Department of Homeland Security to erect
fencing in areas of high illegal entry, but also giving the agency the option
"to use alternative physical infrastructure and technology when fencing is
ineffective or impractical."

Also, Hastert and Frist want to require agency officials to consult with state
and local governments on the exact placement of fencing and other
infrastructure, such as vehicle barriers.

Money poses another potential problem for the fence. Cost estimates range from
$3 million to $10 million per mile -- for a total price tag of at least $2.1
billion, and perhaps much higher, before maintenance costs. The bill Bush
signed, while authorizing the fence, includes no money for it.

A separate budget measure for the Homeland Security department provides $1.2
billion for border security that Republicans have referred to as the "first
installment" for the fence. But that money can be allocated as Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff sees fit.

WHAT CRITICS SAY

A.

gency officials have told Congress they would prefer between 300 and 400 miles
of fencing in areas where they believe it would be effective, and the latitude
to employ other security methods elsewhere.

"In urban areas, we've found that fencing is very effective, but in rural areas,
sensors and other technology are more effective," said Homeland Security
spokesman Russ Knocke.

The new law has encountered resistance in the Southwest -- opponents include the
Texas Border Sheriff's Association and the city of El Paso.

Maria Luisa O'Connell, president of the Phoenix-based Border Trade Alliance,
expressed concerns Thursday about the economic effect of more border fencing.

Mexicans who cross the border legally to shop in the U.S. "are seeing the fence
as a sign that we don't want anyone to come in," said O'Connell, whose
nonpartisan group works to spur cross-border commerce. "You want to have
security, but you need a balance of economic security."

Many Democratic lawmakers have expressed skepticism about how effective more
fencing will prove in significantly reducing illegal immigration. They also said
Thursday's bill-signing ceremony spotlighted the GOP's failure to reach a
consensus on other immigration issues.

"The president and this Congress had a historic opportunity to pass a tough but
fair immigration reform plan this year, but instead that chance was squandered,"
said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday

Citizenship awaits some at end of aisle;
U.S. immigration officials expecting more marriage fraud

BYLINE: BRIAN DONOHUE, Newhouse News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 989 words


Some people marry for love. Others for companionship. Some for money.

And for growing numbers of undocumented immigrants, marriage is for something
else: a green card.

Federal immigration officials call it marriage fraud -- the crime committed when
foreign nationals marry U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents solely so
their new spouses can sponsor them for legal permanent residency.

As the United States cracks down on illegal immigrants and tightens restrictions
on other paths toward legal residency, federal immigration agencies are bracing
for a wave of people using marriage as a way to get on the path to citizenship.

"A lot of people say, 'I can't do anything through my employer, I can't legalize
my status any other way, let me get married, it's the only way I can do it,' "
said Robert Frank, a Newark, N.J., immigration attorney. "There is a certain
percentage of people who are so desperate that they're going to do that. And
that's going to grow."

While U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials are stepping up efforts to
tackle fraud, experts and even immigration officials themselves concede the
conniving couples often have the upper hand.

Perhaps no aspect of immigration enforcement, it seems, is tougher than proving
two people are not really in love.

In years past, immigration agents often followed up interviews with field work,
such as visits to a couple's home to make sure they actually live together.
While a handful of agents recently resumed such work, manpower shortages make it
the exception, rather than the rule.

Immigration investigators and federal prosecutors have focused only on the
large-scale fraud rings, allowing individual cheaters to simply walk away.

"It's hard to prove," said Andrea Quarantillo, who heads the New York office of
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the DHS agency that processes
immigration applications. "The truth of the matter is, there is more work than
we have staff for."

Getting married for a green card is nothing new.

Hollywood seized on the phenomenon in 1990 with the movie "Green Card," about a
couple who get married out of convenience, only to fall in love.

In real life, marrying a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident is the single
largest path toward citizenship.

Last year, 259,144 of the 1.1 million legal immigrants admitted to the U.S.
obtained their papers by marrying a U.S. citizen, up from 123,000 a decade ago.
Tens of thousands more obtained legal status by marrying green-card holders, or
legal permanent residents.

Since Congress toughened the law in 2001, only foreigners who entered the
country legally have been eligible for marriage benefits.

That includes visitors and guest workers holding valid visas and people who have
overstayed their visas -- a category that accounts for an estimated 40 percent
of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants.

As states have moved to ban illegal immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses
and the U.S has toughened border patrols, cracked down on employers of illegal
immigrants and changed rules for those seeking political asylum, a U.S. citizen
spouse has become a hotter commodity.

The large majority of those filing marriage petitions are legitimately married,
officials say. Doubtless, they add, untold thousands are scamming the system.

USCIS is studying the extent of fraud in the program. Previous studies of other
benefit programs have found rampant abuse.

And a computer analysis of marriage benefit applications filed in 2000 found
25,000 potential marriage fraud cases among pending applications, according to a
report by the Government Accountability Office, an arm of Congress that audits
federal programs.

Immigration officers like Ernest DeStefano provide virtually the only level of
defense.

A dozen times a day, the Newark-based officer pulls a file from a rotating
roster, then calls a couple from the waiting room packed with scores of couples.
For the next half-hour, he fires questions at them to determine whether their
marriage is an authentic union.

Who woke up first this morning? Where did you spend last Thanksgiving? What are
your in-laws' names?

"I asked one guy when he last spoke to his in-laws," said DeStefano, a district
adjudications officer at USCIS. "He told me a week ago. That was funny, because
they'd been dead for four years."

In some fraud cases, the sponsor is simply doing a favor for a friend. In
others, the foreigner may have paid thousands of dollars to the spouse, who may
be working for a profitable fraud ring or just out to make some quick money.

In the saddest cases -- and the toughest for agents to prove are fraudulent --
the foreigners have duped their spouses into thinking they're actually in love
with them, just to get a green card.

"It can be heartbreaking sometimes," said Anouchka Castro, supervisory
immigration officer for USCIS in Newark. "You're sitting across the table from
them, and you know one person is in it for real, and one person's in it for the
green card."

Some couples make their fraud obvious by trying a little too hard.

Castro recalls flipping through one couple's photo album: "On one page, there's
a picture of the couple at the zoo. Then you turn the page and you've got full
frontal nudity. There's a photo of both of them in bed and you're wondering,
'Who took this picture?' "

Along with the answers to interview questions, investigators rely on a range of
evidence to verify the couple share a "common life," bank account or address. It
is dicey territory.

Couples in arranged marriages, common in many cultures, cannot be expected to
know many details because they may hardly know each other. In other cultures,
household finances are kept in the husband's name.

"There's no recipe for what's a bona fide marriage," said Quarantillo. "We
respect the fact that there are different arrangements for people. What we're
interested in is: Is this an arrangement that would come about if immigration
was not an issue?"

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 24, 2007 Saturday

Anyone else confused?

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 1093 words


I'm confused. It is illegal for businessmen to hire illegal immigrants. They can
be fined heavily and even risk closure of their business. But it is OK for our
politicians to propose legislation to give them in-state tuition, tax benefits,
welfare benefits and even the right to vote. It is OK for our banks to let them
open accounts and get credit cards.

It is OK for our police not to ask about their immigration status if they are
stopped or taken into custody for other crimes. It is OK for school
superintendents to allow illegals to attend our schools without asking their
immigration status. It is OK for hospitals and clinics to not ask about their
immigration status while treating them. Anyone else confused? Anyone else
absolutely fed up?

MARY RASSMUSSEN

Farmington

Destruction

still rages

For four years, many others and I have protested, petitioned, phoned, marched,
voted, organized, written letters and e-mails, and still the destruction rages
on in Iraq. How does an ordinary citizen have his or her voice heard in this
"democracy" today?

Sheri Smith

St. Paul

Report

anti-war news

On March 18, 4,000 Minnesotans marched down Hennepin Avenue in Minneapolis to
mark the fourth anniversary of the war in Iraq and demand that the troops come
home now. The anti-war march was a featured story on every local TV network that
evening and a front page story in Monday's Star Tribune, yet somehow it received
no mention in the Pioneer Press. Wake up.

Two-thirds of the country is now opposed to the war and only 11 percent of
Americans support Bush's "troop surge." Demonstrations took place all over the
country and the world to call for an end to this war. When thousands of people
take to the streets in a courageous stand for peace, they deserve to be
acknowledged. In the future, please fulfill your professional responsibility and
report the news.

KATRINA PLOTZ

Bloomington

Imaginary

value

My brother and I recently bought houses in Ramsey County. The taxed assessed
values on each of the properties is over $30,000 more than the purchase price of
the homes. We contacted the tax assessor's office, and each of the properties
will be inspected to see whether we qualify for tax abatement.

I was told by one of the inspectors that although we may have paid under
$115,000 for one of the properties, and it is currently valued for tax purposes
at more than $150,000, the minimum tax value of the property may be
approximately $130,000. Translated, that means the county can make up a value
and tax you on it, a value not based on arm's-length market transactions.

Not unlike the stores that say "compare at" and make up a price that the item is
supposedly worth. The difference: The stores don't then tax you on the "value"
they list.

PATRICIA L. LANDERS

Maplewood

Too many

giveaways

Thomson West's honest answer as to why governments knuckle under to corporate
handouts: "This is how the game is played" ("Public partnership, or corporate
blackmail?" March 15). Businesses would be foolish not to ask for a government
handout. Proud government officials want to be seen as "making things happen."
This will go on so long as the public tolerates it and doesn't demand reform at
both the federal (to stop state handouts) and the state level (to stop local
handouts).

Thomson West already knew it wanted to expand here. To say otherwise would imply
its decision-makers are incompetent. They picked their Eagan location because
they need a highly educated and large work force. They know what's going to keep
them the leader in their field - superior people.

Our state legislators need to enact a moratorium on giveaways until they get
their act together.

AL SANDS

Roseville

Open the books

Brian Bonner's article ("Public partnership, or corporate blackmail," March 15)
examining the pros and cons of public subsidization of projects for private
profit raised the bar on such reporting in Minnesota. I'm hoping he and his
colleagues at the Pioneer Press continue to track this ongoing, ever-expanding
story, and keep us taxpayers apprised of who is trying to raid the public
treasury for what purposes.

I have asked my state senator and state representative to introduce legislation
that would require all applicants for public funding for private projects to
open their books to an independent public audit before such legislation even
would be considered. PP readers can do the same.

Such projects should also be required to undergo a cost-benefit analysis by an
independent auditor, and the public benefits from public subsidies clearly
explained.

WILLARD B. SHAPIRA

Minneapolis

A misleading

column

Farmington High School Principal Monica Kittock-Sargent's column on the proposed
$24 million Sportsplex at the new Farmington High School ("Planned complex and
activities it supports are all about learning," March 15), misleads readers
about the controversial proposal. She spent her column connecting the importance
of physical activity with academic success. There's no disagreement on that.

But she gave the false impression that without the Sportsplex, there would be no
sports facilities at the new school. Sports facilities under construction
include a fitness center, main gym, football and track stadium, wrestling area,
locker rooms and various outdoor activity areas. The school board rejected bids
($6.26 million) for a 25-yard pool, auxiliary gym and eight tennis courts in
favor of the Sportsplex.

The Sportsplex adds a 50-yard Olympic pool, two ice arenas, a larger auxiliary
gym and smaller additions. The Sportsplex idea attempts to create a new
"platinum standard" of sports facilities at the expense of Farmington taxpayers.

LEON W. ORR

Farmington

Two households,

one income

Many fit, loving parents are turned into visitors and criminalized unnecessarily
at the hands of the divorce industry/family court, whose primary objective is to
increase its head count. This is done by forcing one parent into the "visitor"
role and ordering them, even when not necessary, to pay exorbitant levels of
child support.

Divorcing parents are pushed into the "program" even though most do not meet the
required eligibility standards that include being in danger of being on welfare.
The unrealistic level of support is not based on the actual needs and costs of
raising a child, but rather is set up to maintain a "lifestyle." So while the
child is able to go to Disney World with one parent, this same child is often
left with another parent who is lucky to be able to afford to take the child to
Dairy Queen after trying to fully support two households on one income.

RICH LASSAHN

Minneapolis

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday

A contrasting experience in the push for immigration reform

BYLINE: GREGORY RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 795 words


WOODLAWN, N.Y.

Imagine Hillary Rodham Clinton holding up a T-shirt that read: "Legalize
Mexicans." That's not going to happen, right?

Well, last month in Washington, at a rally hosted by the Irish Lobby for
Immigration Reform, the leading Democratic candidate for president actually did
have her picture taken holding a shirt that read: "Legalize the Irish." That's
the lobby's in-your-face slogan, which says a lot about the role that race (and
ethnicity) plays in the debate about illegal immigration. Hispanic activists
bend over backward trying to cloak undocumented Mexican migrants in the slogan
"We are America," but their Irish counterparts don't feel similarly obliged.

There are an estimated 50,000 Irish illegal immigrants in the U.S.; 30,000 of
them are thought to live in New York City. Today, this tiny corner in the
northern reaches of the Bronx is perhaps the most heavily Irish-born
neighborhood in New York, and advocates believe that as many as 40 percent of
local immigrants are undocumented.

The afternoon of April 5, I walked up Katonah Avenue, Woodlawn's main shopping
street, trying to guess who was or wasn't here illegally. How about that blond
woman walking with her child? Or perhaps the redhead in pink sweats? Surely the
two rough-hewn construction workers enjoying a lunchtime beer at the Rambling
House bar didn't have papers. Like the woman I met in California's Central
Valley a few months ago who told me how odd it had been to see white people
engaged in farm labor in Australia, it was a decidedly new sensation for me to
suspect all the white people around me of being illegal.

"When I tell people I'm undocumented, it shocks them," said Mary Brennan, a
nurse's aide who has lived in the U.S. for almost 17 years. "They think of JFK
or Ronald Reagan, and they can't understand how an Irish person could be
illegal."

Though Brennan shares the hardships of undocumented status with other illegal
immigrants throughout the country - last year she was unable to attend her
brother's funeral in Ireland for fear that she'd be denied re-entry to the U.S.
- she acknowledges that Irish illegals do have a slight advantage. It's all in
the stereotypes - race-based, language-based, class-based.

Her friend, contractor Dermot Byrne, who also is here illegally, agrees. "From
my experience, we're not singled out. If someone's driving down the street and
they see five Mexican guys on one side and five Irish guys on the other, they're
going to think that the Mexicans are illegal, even though it could be the other
way around."

Despite his status, Byrne has placed a pro-immigration-reform sticker on his
car, as well as Irish versions of an "I love Jalisco" decal that identify his
and his wife's home counties in the old country.

Irish immigrant advocates are acutely aware that the American public doesn't
identify the Irish as alien, let alone illegal, and they consciously leverage
this positive prejudice to their advantage.

"The fact that they're white Europeans agitating for immigration reform is
helpful," said Niall O'Dowd, chairman of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform
and publisher of the Irish Voice newspaper. "Bottom line is that every ethnic
group brings their own strength to the debate. We can't put a million people in
the street, but we have positive political identification and a lot of access to
Democrats and Republicans."

There are 40 million Americans of Irish descent, and O'Dowd believes that a good
portion of them, particularly the politicians, are sympathetic to the plight of
illegal Irish immigrants. His office is filled with snapshots of him shoulder to
shoulder with the likes of John McCain, Bill Clinton and Ted Kennedy. "The key
is to have sympathetic politicians of the same ethnic background," he said.

Seeking to put a white Irish face on the issue of illegal immigration, O'Dowd
and the Irish Lobby sent a delegation of 3,000 undocumented workers to
Washington last month, not to protest but to lobby U.S. lawmakers. "We Irish are
good at playing politics from the inside," he said. "When politicians see that
even the Irish can be undocumented, then they realize that there's something
wrong with the immigration system."

But whites' more favorable view of illegal immigrants who look like them may not
translate to the growing number of Americans whose ancestors do not hail from
Europe. The Pakistani-born cab driver who took me from the subway station to
Katonah Avenue said he generally found Irish immigrants to be nice, as well as
good tippers. "But they won't rent you an apartment around here if you're not
Irish," he said. "They don't want to mix with other races."

Damn immigrants.

Gregory Rodriguez writes a column for the Los Angeles Times. His e-mail address
is grodriguez@latimescolumnists.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday

Dividing allies, uniting foes, provoking howls left and right - what a deal!

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 760 words



SAN DIEGO
In politics, as in life, you can't please everyone. But the Senate compromise
for immigration reform doesn't appear to have pleased anyone.
Well, except President Bush. Having stated his preference for a bill that
combines border enforcement, guest workers, a path to legal status for illegal
immigrants, along with an education- and skills-based point system to assess the
worthiness of future immigrants, Bush seems to look favorably on a deal that
provides all of the above.
Everyone else? Not so much. The folks on the right sound like a broken record,
blasting the deal as amnesty. That is bold talk from people who have failed the
test of leadership by not offering a sensible alternative. But the real surprise
is on the left, where the supporters of legalization - from immigrant activists
to Latino Democrats to the editorial page of the New York Times - had a juicy
steak dropped in their laps and then have had the nerve to demand sauce.
I admit that I took issue with the process - the fact that senators dickered
over the nuts and bolts of the plan to bring in guest workers when the larger
issue is what happens to 12 million illegal immigrants already here. But that
doesn't mean I want to join critics in blasting away at the product.
This is really a remarkable compromise, the likes of which you don't see often
in Washington. It's evidence of just how thoughtful this plan is that it brings
together traditional adversaries and divides traditional allies. Sen. Robert
Menendez, D-N.J., opposes the plan as too harsh on illegal immigrants while
fellow Latino Democrat, Sen. Ken Salazar of Colorado, supports it.
Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, decries the deal as too lenient while Sen. Jon Kyl,
R-Ariz. - with whom Cornyn co-sponsored an enforcement bill - is a co-architect
of the compromise that he says "represents the best opportunity that we have, in
a bipartisan way, to do something about this problem."
Kyl makes a lot of sense. This deal isn't perfect, and supporters should be
careful not to oversell it as a cure for illegal immigration. That is not what
this is. We're always going to have illegal immigrants as long as Mexico and the
United States share a border and a gaping wage disparity. Whether or not this
plan becomes law, people will still come just for the chance to work. But,
perhaps this way, fewer will come illegally and we'll have a better sense of who
is coming and for what purpose.
Menendez is also correct that the left gave up more ground than the other side
did in the negotiation. This plan is undeniably harsh on illegal immigrants, and
there is reason for that: These folks broke our laws and they need to make
restitution on our terms. Most Americans, while favoring a path to legalization,
don't take lightly that we're bending the rules to let illegal immigrants stay
in the country, and the immigrants shouldn't take it lightly, either.
There has been enough posturing and absolutist rhetoric on both sides. At the
end of the day - when you're done beating your chest, or demanding sauce for
your steak - you have to ask yourself if you want to address this crisis.
If you don't want a solution, that's fine. No problem. Just be honest about it.
There are folks at the far right and the far left - from Mark Krikorian,
executive director of a restrictionist group, the Center for Immigration
Studies, to Nativo Lopez, president of the radical Mexican-American Political
Association - who oppose this compromise because both organizations benefit from
keeping this issue unresolved. The more chaos, the better it is for membership
rolls.
Yet, for those of us who see light at the end of what has been a very long and
dark tunnel, there is reason to be optimistic - and impressed with this effort
and the progress it represents.
It is no surprise that many liberal lawmakers - beholden as they are to labor
unions and Latino groups - want to kill the guest worker program and preserve
family reunification as the guiding principle for admitting immigrants. Just as
it is no surprise that many conservative lawmakers hate the idea of giving
illegal immigrants a path to legalization, even if it is a long and difficult
one, as it should be.
What do you expect the extremes to say? If they really believe that their side
gave away too much in this negotiation, they should ask themselves one question:
Why is it that their opponents are complaining just as loudly as they are?
Ruben Navarrette of the San Diego Union Tribune writes a nationally syndicated
column. His e-mail address is ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday

Don't expect much from immigration legislation

BYLINE: EDWARD LOTTERMAN

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Edward Lotterman

LENGTH: 803 words



As Yogi Berra once said, "It's deja vu all over again.''
Two decades ago, Congress passed legislation that was supposed to solve all our
immigration problems. Yet it's almost eerie how we seem to be talking about all
the same issues now as another bill on the subject is being debated in Congress.

In the early 1980s, as now, thousands of people crossed U.S. borders illegally
each day seeking work. Then, as now, increased border patrolling did little to
stem the flow. Then, as now, employers happily turned blind eyes to the legal
status of those willing to do unpleasant jobs at low wages.
A quarter-century ago, millions of such immigrants had lived here for years,
holding jobs, paying taxes and having children. Hiring them was illegal, but
there was little effective enforcement. Businesses claimed they would go broke
if they could not hire low-skilled immigrants.
The Simpson-Mazzoli Immigration Reform and Control Act was supposed to fix all
that. It increased requirements for employers to verify legal status before
hiring. It supposedly strengthened penalties for employers who knowingly hired
illegal immigrants. It offered a fast track to citizenship, effectively an
amnesty, to those who had been here a long time. And it included pious
commitments to stronger border enforcement. The act, people thought, would solve
illegal immigration once and for all.
When Simpson-Mazzoli passed in 1986, there were 3 million to 4 million people
living and working in the United States without having met the legal
requirements. Now there are 12 million or more. What went wrong?
More importantly, what is different about the compromise currently before
Congress that will guarantee greater success than the bill enacted two decades
ago?
Economics is all about how people respond to incentives. How does the current
proposal change incentives for anyone? What different motivation does it create
for those already here against the law? What about for those still abroad who
would like to come to our country for a better life? And what about for those
companies that hire illegal immigrants, knowingly or unknowingly?
Be careful not to fall into the "they will have to" fallacy that plagues
immigration debates. Supposedly, under the proposed law, some immigrants "will
have to pay $5,000" or "will have to go back home every two years," or "will
have to return to their home country to apply for permanent status."
Why will they have to do any of these things? Because the new law says they do?
Existing laws prohibit crossing the border illegally and living or working in
this country without valid permits. Existing laws ban hiring workers who do not
meet legal eligibility criteria. If such laws are honored more in the breach
than in the observance, what will another new law change?
One key issue is dealing with the 12 million illegal immigrants already here.
Another is controlling future inflows. Addressing one issue does not necessarily
solve the other.
It would be extremely difficult to deport 12 million people, many who have lived
here for years. As columnist George Will pointed out, we "would fill 200,000
buses in a caravan stretching ... from San Diego to Alaska." It would be an
enormous law-enforcement effort. There is little apparent public support for
such an unprecedented effort. Pragmatism dictates some legal recognition of the
de facto status quo.
It is not at all clear, however, that the current bill will motivate many
existing illegal residents to regularize their status. On a day-to-day basis,
how would their lives be different? Yes, it might remove pervasive fears of
being caught in some immigration raid. But would that motivate many people to
jump through the procedural hoops in the bill?
More importantly, how will legalization of the status of those already here and
a temporary worker program change incentives for those still in other countries
who would like to move here? It is not clear the bill will change much.
Legalization of those already here reinforces the belief that once you get
across the border, something will work out for the long run. And while temporary
work permits may simplify things for the lucky prospective migrants who get
them, failure to secure one won't make prospects for illegal crossing any worse
than they are now.
The fundamentals are unchanged. There is a big earnings gap between the United
States and Mexico or other poor countries. The cost of migrating continues to
drop, despite increased border patrols, because of network effects and easier
communication. And despite a few well-publicized raids, there is little
punishment for hiring illegal workers. The bill does little to change these
fundamentals. Don't expect it to do much to change the outcome.
St. Paul economist and writer Edward Lotterman can be reached at
elotterman@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 6, 2007 Friday

On front lines of Congress' failure to act

BYLINE: DAVID BRODER

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 743 words


WASHINGTON

Hours after the immigration reform bill he had championed went down to defeat,
Sen. John McCain told me what he thought would happen next. "You will see the
states and cities scrambling to pass their own laws and regulations," he said,
"and you're going to get a completely contradictory set of policies."

It did not take long for McCain's prediction to be confirmed - right in his own
home state of Arizona. Four days after the Senate killed the comprehensive
immigration bill supported by President Bush, Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, a
Democrat, signed a bill her Republican Legislature had passed imposing extremely
tough sanctions on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Napolitano, who had vetoed somewhat similar legislation a year earlier, said in
a statement that she decided to approve "the most aggressive action in the
country" against such employers, "because it is now abundantly clear that
Congress finds itself incapable of coping with the comprehensive immigration
reforms our country needs."

She signed the bill, despite finding it so severely flawed that she called on
legislative leaders to plan a special session this fall to amend the measure
even before it is scheduled to go into effect Jan. 1.

Arizona has been swamped with illegal immigrants coming across the border from
Mexico. Napolitano declared a border emergency in 2005 and moved in additional
law enforcement resources, as federal border patrols reported that half their
arrests nationally were taking place in Arizona.

I know Napolitano to be a conscientious and committed executive. As a former
U.S. attorney for Arizona and state attorney general, she is serious about law
enforcement. But she is also a compassionate person, and she has joined McCain
in unsuccessfully opposing voter initiatives to deny public benefits to the
children of illegal immigrants. And she vetoed other immigration bills.

But with the failure of Congress, she found herself in a position of having to
leave the problem to fester or signing a seriously flawed bill.

The new state legislation requires every Arizona business to verify the legal
status of each new employee. That's also a requirement of long-established
federal law, but the feds rarely enforce it. Under the new Arizona statute, the
first violation can result in a suspension of the business license. A second
offense can mean permanent revocation - in effect, an order to go out of
business.

Napolitano warned the Legislature that some of those provisions went too far.
Without any exclusion for vital public services, she said, a hospital or power
plant could be shut down for hiring undocumented workers.

She also found the financing in the bill "woefully inadequate" for the task of
enforcing the law, and she worried about the absence of any statutory protection
against discrimination by race or national origin.

But she said, "Because of Congress' failure to act, states like Arizona have no
choice but to take strong action to discourage the further flow of illegal
immigration through our borders."

In a separate letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, her fellow Democrats, Napolitano chided Congress for having "once again
failed to take action on comprehensive immigration reform."

She pointed to one of the other practical consequences of that failure. The
Arizona bill requires employers to use the federal government's Basic Pilot
Program, a computer database that lets businesses check legal residences against
Social Security numbers, to verify the employment status of new workers.
Currently, Napolitano noted, the program serves fewer than 15,000 businesses
nationwide. Arizona alone will add 130,000 to 150,000 new businesses to its
clientele. Napolitano pointedly asked if the feds are prepared to finance a
tenfold increase in the demands on that system.

She concluded her letter: "For years now, I have spoken out on the desperate
need for comprehensive immigration reform. Today, I renew my call on Congress to
enact such legislation. The United States Congress has a responsibility to act
swiftly and definitively to solve this problem on the national level."

When Congress fails that responsibility, it imposes an unfair burden on its
partners in state and local government - and on the people they serve. That
failure has become chronic and crippling.

David Broder of the Washington Post writes a nationally syndicated column. His
e-mail address is davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday

Senate vote on immigration again falls short

BYLINE: BY DAVE MONTGOMERY McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 535 words


WASHINGTON - The Senate flinched again Wednesday on the potent issue of
immigration, refusing to consider legislation that would have put thousands of
undocumented immigrant students on paths to citizenship.

By 52-44 - eight short of the 60-vote majority needed under Senate rules -
senators effectively killed the DREAM Act after the Bush administration
announced its opposition to it. The bill's defeat came four months after the
Senate rejected more comprehensive immigration legislation the White House
supported.

Known officially as "the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors
Act," the bill would have allowed illegal immigrants' children who have grown up
in the U.S. the opportunity to apply for citizenship if they graduate from high
school and attend two years of college or serve in the military.

While far more limited than the bill that died in the Senate in late June, the
measure nevertheless ignited the same divisions, with opponents denouncing it as
amnesty that would pave the way to legalizing millions of illegal immigrants.

Tensions flared after Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., a presidential candidate who's
calling for restrictive immigration policies, sought unsuccessfully to obtain
the arrests of several illegal immigrant students whom the bill's chief sponsor,
Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., invited to Washington to help lobby for the
legislation.

"America is a better nation than what we hear from the likes of that
congressman," Durbin said on the Senate floor before the vote. Tancredo later
shot back in a news release that Durbin's bill was designed "to do one thing -
benefit illegal aliens."

Durbin has sought for years to obtain passage of the measure to help illegal
immigrant children, who he said are caught in legal limbo after they enter the
United States with their parents. Many, he said, grow up in this country, attend
school and become part of the American culture but are unable to become legal
contributing citizens because of their undocumented status.

"These are kids without a country," he said.

As he argued on behalf of the bill, he stood beside an oversize photograph of
Marie Gonzalez, 21, an undocumented student who came to the United States when
she was 5 and is a political science major at Westminster College in Fulton, Mo.

Gonzalez, who was among several undocumented students watching the debate from
the gallery, said she is scheduled to be deported June 30, just 18 semester
hours short of her graduation. "It is a tragedy what is happening to these
students," she said after the vote at an impromptu news conference in Durbin's
office.

A surprisingly large contingent of 12 Republicans supported the motion to
proceed on the bill after Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, secured Durbin's
consent for a compromise aimed at softening conservatives' objections. It would
have allowed immigrant children to stay in the country and secure student and
work visas but would have required them to get behind other applicants in
applying for permanent legal status.

Hutchison described the potential beneficiaries of the bill as young people who
were "brought to this country not of their own doing.

"If we sent them home, there wouldn't be a home to go to."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday

Immigration raid roils Worthington;
THE TARGET: Swift & Co. plant, 1 of 6 company facilities raided in U.S.
DETAINED: Hundreds of suspected illegal immigrants believed held BEHIND THE
RAIDS: Authorities allege widespread ID theft ring

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON, MARICELLA MIRANDA and TAD VEZNER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1317 words


WORTHINGTON, Minn. -- Federal immigration officials staged a surprise raid at a
Worthington pork-processing plant Tuesday, terrifying immigrant workers and
bringing operations to a standstill.

Hundreds of workers are believed to have been detained in the raid -- one of six
conducted across the country at Swift & Co. plants. U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials said official numbers would not be made available until
today at the earliest.

Ten white buses with tinted windows parked in front of the plant Tuesday while
dozens of federal officers with sidearms and armored vests entered and cordoned
off areas of the plant in southwestern Minnesota, witnesses said. Attorneys
representing family members said detainees were taken away in the buses. They
were headed to Sioux Falls, S.D., and Iowa.

ICE chief Julie L. Myers told reporters in Washington, D.C., that agents had
uncovered a scheme in which illegal immigrants and others had stolen or bought
the identities and Social Security numbers of possibly hundreds of U.S. citizens
and lawful residents to get jobs with Swift.

Myers said ICE officials had uncovered several groups that may have provided
illegal documents. Some immigrants had genuine U.S. birth certificates, she
said.

"The only thing people have been charged with have been administrative
immigration violations for being in the country illegally," ICE spokesman Tim
Counts said at the scene in Worthington. "... We believe there has been a
significant amount of identity theft, but no charges in that realm have been
brought yet."

The raid placed many of Worthington's 11,283 residents -- one in five is Latino
or Hispanic -- in a state of turmoil. The sweep coincided with the day of the
Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, the patron saint of Mexico.

"For the people that this is happening to today, short of losing a loved one,
this is probably the worst day of their life," said Worthington Public Safety
Director Mike Cumiskey, who was given notice Monday that the 7:30 a.m. raid was
planned, though his department was not involved.

"On a purely human level, there are hundreds if not thousands of people in
Worthington who are just terrified," said Bruce Nestor, a Minneapolis
immigration attorney who drove to Worthington, about 180 miles southwest of the
Twin Cities, to represent workers and their families.

Nestor said when ICE officials initially arrived at the plant, workers were
prohibited from leaving and neither union representatives nor company officials
were given access to them.

Susana DeLeon, Nestor's law partner, said more than 100 government officials
entered the building, shutting down portions of it to interview workers into the
evening.

Counts said chaos was kept to a minimum: "Agents bursting though doors, chasing
people around -- that could not be further from what happened out there today.
It was very orderly, very methodical."

Still, the two attorneys said they were in a "Catch-22" situation while trying
to represent their seven Worthington clients.

"It isn't possible to get (forms approving representation) signed without you in
the room, and it isn't possible to get in the room without the form being
signed," DeLeon said.

Dan Donnelly, an immigration attorney in Austin, Minn., with clients in
Worthington, said it will take at least a day for his clients to be processed
before he can file motions for bond hearings.

But not all immigrants will be allowed to be released on bond, particularly if
they have criminal records. Under certain circumstances, they can be deported to
their native countries immediately, Donnelly said.

Many in Worthington said they were worried about family members whom detainees
might be leaving behind.

Mike Potter, president of Local 1161 of the United Food and Commercial Workers,
said he was shaken after seeing men crying about suddenly being separated from
their families.

"It's a sad situation. It's a human rights issue," Potter said. "I didn't see it
coming."

Said Counts: "I want to make it extremely clear that everyone arrested has been
asked pointedly what their family situation is, if they have children, what
their care needs are. Sometimes that will involve releasing one parent on their
own recognizance and scheduling a hearing with an immigration judge further down
the line."

Hector Andrade, pastor of Communidad Christiana Church in Worthington, said his
church was caring for five children from two families whose parents didn't pick
them up from school Tuesday.

Alondra Espejel, of the St. Paul-based Minnesota Immigration Freedom Network,
said she received reports of people going into hiding.

"There are people that will not leave to go to school,'' she said. "People are
hiding in their basements. People are seeking asylum in their churches."

Noted one Swift employee who was detained but later released: "We didn't hurt
anybody. We just work. We've been helping the town grow. We pay a lot of taxes.
They don't realize that."

The 41-year-old employee, who has worked at the plant for 16 years and is from
Nicaragua, asked to be identified only as Gloria, saying she feared being
interrogated again by ICE officials.

Enrique Manrique, 33, a Swift worker and Mexican immigrant who now a U.S.
citizen, said his wife, also a plant employee, was detained and taken to Sioux
Falls.

"They took my wife," said Manrique, who has lived in Worthington for three
years. "I have a son who just had surgery. My son is crying and missing his
mom," he said.

"She asked for my son right away, and how he was doing," he said of an 8:30 p.m.
phone conversation with his wife. "I felt very impatient, very frustrated. I
wanted to run to her, to take care of her."

Worthington Mayor Alan Oberloh said he hadn't been to the plant Tuesday and that
the city was not involved.

Swift & Co. describes itself as an $8 billion business and the world's
second-largest meat-processing company. The Worthington plant employs 1,800 to
2,300 people and processes 16,000 to 18,000 hogs a day.

No charges had been filed against the company Tuesday.

"Swift has never condoned the employment of unauthorized workers, nor have we
ever knowingly hired such individuals," company president and CEO Sam Rovit said
in a statement.

The Worthington plant is a powerful magnet to immigrant workers who, since the
late 1980s, have streamed into the Midwest in search of economic opportunity.

One illegal Guatemalan immigrant who worked at Swift -- interviewed by the
Pioneer Press in April -- said that in his country he might make $3 to $8 a day
for agricultural work, compared with Swift's average pay of $99 a day.

"I would say that the vast majority of the people that are workers here are
probably illegal," Oberloh told the newspaper at the time in describing his
changing community. "But that's not the issue that we're trying to deal with....
We're trying to deal with the people that are extorting and taking advantage of
the ones that are here trying to work."

The governor's office voiced support for the raid.

"It's progress, certainly. We are glad to see that ICE's investigation into this
issue has paid off," said Alex Carey, spokesman for Gov. Tim Pawlenty. "It's
good to see that Immigration and Customs Enforcement is proactive."

Tom Steward, a spokesman for U.S. Sen. Norm Coleman, added: "Sen. Coleman fully
supports enforcing our nation's immigration laws and understands this issue is
of particular concern in the community of Worthington. At this point it appears
that all proper procedures have been followed by ICE agents."

The other five Swift processing facilities raided were in Greeley, Colo.; Grand
Island, Neb.; Cactus, Texas; Hyrum, Utah; and Marshalltown, Iowa.

The Associated Press contributed to this report. Emily Gurnon can be reached at
egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516. Maricella Miranda can be reached at
651-228-5421 or mmiranda@pioneerpress.com. Tad Vezner can be reached at
tvezner@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5461.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday

Hundreds detained after immigration officials raid Worthington pork plant

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON, MARICELLA MIRANDA AND TAD VEZNER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1574 words


WORTHINGTON. Minn. -- Federal immigration officials staged a surprise raid at a
Worthington pork-processing plant Tuesday, terrifying immigrant workers and
bringing operations to a standstill.

Hundreds of workers are believed to have been detained in the raid -- one of six
conducted across the country at Swift & Co. plants. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials said official numbers would not be made available until
Wednesday at the earliest.

Ten white buses with tinted windows parked in front of the plant Tuesday while
dozens of federal officers with side arms and armored vests entered and cordoned
off areas of the building, witnesses said. Attorneys representing family members
said detainees later were taken away in the buses, described as "larger than a
Greyhound." They were headed to Sioux Falls, S.D., and Iowa.

ICE chief Julie L. Myers told reporters in Washington that agents had uncovered
a scheme in which illegal immigrants and others had stolen or bought the
identities and Social Security numbers of possibly hundreds of U.S. citizens and
lawful residents to get jobs with Swift & Co. In Washington, Myers said ICE
officials had uncovered several different groups that may have provided illegal
documents. Some immigrants had genuine U.S. birth certificates, Myers said.

ICE spokesman Tim Counts, who was on the scene, said "the only thing people have
been charged with have been administrative immigration violations for being in
the country illegally ... We believe there has have a significant amount of
identity theft, but no charges in that realm have been brought yet."

The enforcement action has placed many of Worthington's 11,283 residents -- one
in five of whom is Latino or Hispanic -- in a state of turmoil. The raid
coincided with the day of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, who is the patron
saint of Mexico.

"For the people that this is happening to today, short of losing a loved one,
this is probably the worst day of their life," said Public Safety Director Mike
Cumiskey, who was given notice Monday that the 7:30 a.m. raid was planned,
though his department was not involved.

"On a purely human level, there are hundreds if not thousands of people in
Worthington who are just terrified," said Bruce Nestor, a Minneapolis
immigration attorney who drove to Worthington, about 180 miles from the Twin
Cities, to represent workers and their families.

Nestor said when ICE officials initially arrived at the plant, workers were
prohibited from leaving and neither union representatives nor company officials
were given access to them.

Susana DeLeon, Nestor's law partner, said over 100 government officials were
stationed in the building, shutting down portions of it to interview workers
into the evening.

But Counts said chaos was kept to a minimum: "Agents bursting though doors,
chasing people around -- that could not be further from what happened out there
today. It was very orderly, very methodical."

Still, the two attorneys said they were in a "Catch-22" situation while trying
to represent their seven Worthington clients.

"It isn't possible to get (forms approving representation) signed without you in
the room, and it isn't possible to get in the room without the form being
signed," DeLeon said.

Dan Donnelly, an immigration attorney in Austin, Minn., with clients in
Worthington, said it will take at least one day for his clients to be processed
before he can file a motion for a bond hearing.

But not all immigrants will be allowed out on bond, particularly if they have a
criminal record. Under certain circumstances, such as immigrants who have been
deported in the past, they can be sent back to their native countries
immediately, Donnelly said.

Many in the town say they are worried about family members detainees may be
leaving behind.

Mike Potter, President of UFCW Local 1161, said he was shaken after seeing grown
men crying and kids are without parents.

"It's a sad situation. It's a human rights issue," Potter said. "I didn't see it
coming."

Counts said immigration officials were doing everything possible: "I want to
make it extremely clear that everyone arrested has been asked pointedly what
their family situation is, if they have children, what their care needs are.
Sometimes that will involve releasing one parent on their own recognizance and
scheduling a hearing with an immigration judge further down the line. Decisions
are made on a case by case basis"

Hector Andrade, pastor of Communidad Christiana church on Oxford Street, said
his church was supporting five children from two families whose parents didn't
pick them up from school Tuesday.

The Nobles County Integration Collaborative, a consortium of local school
districts, has gotten calls from many concerned residents, a staff member said.

"People are scared -- they're calling everybody," said Thongsay Chantharath.
"They're just asking us if we know what's going on, and actually we don't know
what's going on."

The superintendent of the Worthington School District said school officials are
concerned that children will go home to find their parent or parents gone.

"I'm hoping there's a list of names -- or ways for us to check on these kids,"
Superintendent John Landgaard said.

Alondra Espejel, of the St. Paul-based Minnesota Immigration Freedom Network,
said she's received reports of people going into hiding. "There are people that
will not leave to go to school,'' she said. "People are hiding in their
basements. People are seeking asylum in their churches."

"We didn't hurt anybody. We just work. We've been helping the town grow. We pay
a lot of taxes. They don't realize that," said Gloria, 41, a 16-year Swift & Co.
employee who was detained but let go. Gloria said she did not want her last name
used for fear of reprisal.

"They took my wife. I have a son who just had surgery. My son is crying and
missing his mom," said Enrique Manrique, 33, a Swift worker and Worthington
resident of three years who is originally from Mexico and is now an American
citizen.

His wife, another Swift worker, is now in Sioux Falls.

"She asked for my son right away, and how he was doing," Manrique said of an
8:30 p.m. phone conversation. "I felt very impatient, very frustrated. I wanted
to run to her, to take care of her."

Worthington Mayor Alan Oberloh said he hadn't been to the plant Tuesday and the
city was not involved.

"We're on the back burner on this one," he said. Nobles County Sheriff
Department officials also said they stayed largely on the sidelines.

Swift & Co. describes itself as an $8 billion business and the world's
second-largest meat processing company. The Worthington plant now processes
about 16,000 to 18,000 hogs a day after a second shift was added in the late
1980s.

No charges had been filed against the company Tuesday.

"Swift has never condoned the employment of unauthorized workers, nor have we
ever knowingly hired such individuals," Swift & Co. President and CEO Sam Rovit
said in a statement.

Since 1997, Swift has been using a government pilot program to confirm whether
Social Security numbers are valid. Company officials have previously said one
shortcoming may be the program's inability to detect when two people are using
the same number.

The work is hard: employees must herd frightened animals through a messy "stun,
stab and shackle'' killing process. Nearly two-thirds of the roughly
2,000-strong work force is Latino. Average pay is $12.35 per hour, and workers
get health benefits.

One illegal Guatemalan immigrant who worked at Swift -- interviewed by the
Pioneer Press in April -- said in his country, he might make $3 to $8 a day for
agricultural work, compared to Swift's average pay of $99 a day. Others said
rural Minnesota was more attractive than such places as Texas and California.

"I would say that the vast majority of the people that are workers here are
probably illegal,'' said Mayor Oberloh when asked of the issue in March. "But
that's not the issue that we're trying to deal with.... We're trying to deal
with the people that are extorting and taking advantage of the ones that are
here trying to work.''

"We have fake-documented people preying on fake-documented people,'' Police
Capt. Chris Dybevick also said in March. "It's a horrible cycle that's spinning
through."

The Governor's office voiced support for the raid.

"It's progress, certainly. We are glad to see that ICE's investigation into this
issue has paid off," said Alex Carey, spokesman for Gov. Tim Pawlenty. "It's
good to see that Immigration and Customs Enforcement is proactive."

Tom Steward, a spokesman for U.S. Sen. Norm Coleman, added: "Sen. Coleman fully
supports enforcing our nation's immigration laws and understands this issue is
of particular concern in the community of Worthington. At this point it appears
that ICE agents have followed all proper procedures. We will continue to monitor
the results of this operation going forward."

The other five Swift processing facilities raided were in Greeley, Colo.; Grand
Island, Neb.; Cactus, Texas; Hyrum, Utah; Marshalltown, Iowa. With the
Worthington plant, they represent all of Swift's domestic beef processing
capacity and 77 percent of its pork processing capacity.

This article contains information from the Associated Press.

Emily Gurnon can be reached at egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.
Maricella Miranda can be reached at mmiranda@pioneer press.com or 651-228-5421.
Tad Vezner can be reached at tvezner@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5461.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday

Hundreds detained after immigration officials raid Worthington pork plant

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON, MARICELLA MIRANDA AND TAD VEZNER, Pioneer Press

LENGTH: 1574 words


WORTHINGTON. Minn. -- Federal immigration officials staged a surprise raid at a
Worthington pork-processing plant Tuesday, terrifying immigrant workers and
bringing operations to a standstill.

Hundreds of workers are believed to have been detained in the raid -- one of six
conducted across the country at Swift & Co. plants. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials said official numbers would not be made available until
Wednesday at the earliest.

Ten white buses with tinted windows parked in front of the plant Tuesday while
dozens of federal officers with side arms and armored vests entered and cordoned
off areas of the building, witnesses said. Attorneys representing family members
said detainees later were taken away in the buses, described as "larger than a
Greyhound." They were headed to Sioux Falls, S.D., and Iowa.

ICE chief Julie L. Myers told reporters in Washington that agents had uncovered
a scheme in which illegal immigrants and others had stolen or bought the
identities and Social Security numbers of possibly hundreds of U.S. citizens and
lawful residents to get jobs with Swift & Co. In Washington, Myers said ICE
officials had uncovered several different groups that may have provided illegal
documents. Some immigrants had genuine U.S. birth certificates, Myers said.

ICE spokesman Tim Counts, who was on the scene, said "the only thing people have
been charged with have been administrative immigration violations for being in
the country illegally ... We believe there has have a significant amount of
identity theft, but no charges in that realm have been brought yet."

The enforcement action has placed many of Worthington's 11,283 residents -- one
in five of whom is Latino or Hispanic -- in a state of turmoil. The raid
coincided with the day of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, who is the patron
saint of Mexico.

"For the people that this is happening to today, short of losing a loved one,
this is probably the worst day of their life," said Public Safety Director Mike
Cumiskey, who was given notice Monday that the 7:30 a.m. raid was planned,
though his department was not involved.

"On a purely human level, there are hundreds if not thousands of people in
Worthington who are just terrified," said Bruce Nestor, a Minneapolis
immigration attorney who drove to Worthington, about 180 miles from the Twin
Cities, to represent workers and their families.

Nestor said when ICE officials initially arrived at the plant, workers were
prohibited from leaving and neither union representatives nor company officials
were given access to them.

Susana DeLeon, Nestor's law partner, said over 100 government officials were
stationed in the building, shutting down portions of it to interview workers
into the evening.

But Counts said chaos was kept to a minimum: "Agents bursting though doors,
chasing people around -- that could not be further from what happened out there
today. It was very orderly, very methodical."

Still, the two attorneys said they were in a "Catch-22" situation while trying
to represent their seven Worthington clients.

"It isn't possible to get (forms approving representation) signed without you in
the room, and it isn't possible to get in the room without the form being
signed," DeLeon said.

Dan Donnelly, an immigration attorney in Austin, Minn., with clients in
Worthington, said it will take at least one day for his clients to be processed
before he can file a motion for a bond hearing.

But not all immigrants will be allowed out on bond, particularly if they have a
criminal record. Under certain circumstances, such as immigrants who have been
deported in the past, they can be sent back to their native countries
immediately, Donnelly said.

Many in the town say they are worried about family members detainees may be
leaving behind.

Mike Potter, President of UFCW Local 1161, said he was shaken after seeing grown
men crying and kids are without parents.

"It's a sad situation. It's a human rights issue," Potter said. "I didn't see it
coming."

Counts said immigration officials were doing everything possible: "I want to
make it extremely clear that everyone arrested has been asked pointedly what
their family situation is, if they have children, what their care needs are.
Sometimes that will involve releasing one parent on their own recognizance and
scheduling a hearing with an immigration judge further down the line. Decisions
are made on a case by case basis"

Hector Andrade, pastor of Communidad Christiana church on Oxford Street, said
his church was supporting five children from two families whose parents didn't
pick them up from school Tuesday.

The Nobles County Integration Collaborative, a consortium of local school
districts, has gotten calls from many concerned residents, a staff member said.

"People are scared -- they're calling everybody," said Thongsay Chantharath.
"They're just asking us if we know what's going on, and actually we don't know
what's going on."

The superintendent of the Worthington School District said school officials are
concerned that children will go home to find their parent or parents gone.

"I'm hoping there's a list of names -- or ways for us to check on these kids,"
Superintendent John Landgaard said.

Alondra Espejel, of the St. Paul-based Minnesota Immigration Freedom Network,
said she's received reports of people going into hiding. "There are people that
will not leave to go to school,'' she said. "People are hiding in their
basements. People are seeking asylum in their churches."

"We didn't hurt anybody. We just work. We've been helping the town grow. We pay
a lot of taxes. They don't realize that," said Gloria, 41, a 16-year Swift & Co.
employee who was detained but let go. Gloria said she did not want her last name
used for fear of reprisal.

"They took my wife. I have a son who just had surgery. My son is crying and
missing his mom," said Enrique Manrique, 33, a Swift worker and Worthington
resident of three years who is originally from Mexico and is now an American
citizen.

His wife, another Swift worker, is now in Sioux Falls.

"She asked for my son right away, and how he was doing," Manrique said of an
8:30 p.m. phone conversation. "I felt very impatient, very frustrated. I wanted
to run to her, to take care of her."

Worthington Mayor Alan Oberloh said he hadn't been to the plant Tuesday and the
city was not involved.

"We're on the back burner on this one," he said. Nobles County Sheriff
Department officials also said they stayed largely on the sidelines.

Swift & Co. describes itself as an $8 billion business and the world's
second-largest meat processing company. The Worthington plant now processes
about 16,000 to 18,000 hogs a day after a second shift was added in the late
1980s.

No charges had been filed against the company Tuesday.

"Swift has never condoned the employment of unauthorized workers, nor have we
ever knowingly hired such individuals," Swift & Co. President and CEO Sam Rovit
said in a statement.

Since 1997, Swift has been using a government pilot program to confirm whether
Social Security numbers are valid. Company officials have previously said one
shortcoming may be the program's inability to detect when two people are using
the same number.

The work is hard: employees must herd frightened animals through a messy "stun,
stab and shackle'' killing process. Nearly two-thirds of the roughly
2,000-strong work force is Latino. Average pay is $12.35 per hour, and workers
get health benefits.

One illegal Guatemalan immigrant who worked at Swift -- interviewed by the
Pioneer Press in April -- said in his country, he might make $3 to $8 a day for
agricultural work, compared to Swift's average pay of $99 a day. Others said
rural Minnesota was more attractive than such places as Texas and California.

"I would say that the vast majority of the people that are workers here are
probably illegal,'' said Mayor Oberloh when asked of the issue in March. "But
that's not the issue that we're trying to deal with.... We're trying to deal
with the people that are extorting and taking advantage of the ones that are
here trying to work.''

"We have fake-documented people preying on fake-documented people,'' Police
Capt. Chris Dybevick also said in March. "It's a horrible cycle that's spinning
through."

The Governor's office voiced support for the raid.

"It's progress, certainly. We are glad to see that ICE's investigation into this
issue has paid off," said Alex Carey, spokesman for Gov. Tim Pawlenty. "It's
good to see that Immigration and Customs Enforcement is proactive."

Tom Steward, a spokesman for U.S. Sen. Norm Coleman, added: "Sen. Coleman fully
supports enforcing our nation's immigration laws and understands this issue is
of particular concern in the community of Worthington. At this point it appears
that ICE agents have followed all proper procedures. We will continue to monitor
the results of this operation going forward."

The other five Swift processing facilities raided were in Greeley, Colo.; Grand
Island, Neb.; Cactus, Texas; Hyrum, Utah; Marshalltown, Iowa. With the
Worthington plant, they represent all of Swift's domestic beef processing
capacity and 77 percent of its pork processing capacity.

This article contains information from the Associated Press.

Emily Gurnon can be reached at egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.
Maricella Miranda can be reached at mmiranda@pioneer press.com or 651-228-5421.
Tad Vezner can be reached at tvezner@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5461.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

Raids show spread of ID theft;
Stolen Social Security numbers helped thwart system, and the problem is growing,
feds say

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON and LESLIE BROOKS SUZUKAMO, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 807 words


Federal officials say Tuesday's meatpacking plant raids in Minnesota and five
other states highlight a growing problem of illegal workers buying or stealing
identities to get jobs.

"This investigation has uncovered a disturbing front in the war against illegal
immigrants," said Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. "Enforcement
actions like this one protect the privacy rights of innocent Americans while
striking a blow against illegal immigration."

But some immigration advocates said federal officials are using the identity
theft issue as a scare tactic.

"What (they're) trying to do is to link it to terrorist actions. They're trying
to justify their existence, like they're a terrorist-busting group," said Joyce
Graciela Stellick, state director of communications for the League of United
Latin American Citizens in Winona, Minn. "But these are just individuals who
need to work."

Of the 1,282 workers rounded up at six Swift & Co. plants nationwide, 65 were
facing identity theft or other criminal charges. Federal officials said the
number could rise as individual cases get reviewed.

At Swift's hog-processing plant in Worthington, Minn., authorities arrested 230
people. None of those people was charged with identity theft.

"We're going to continue to look into that for all of those arrested, and likely
more criminal charges will be brought against other people," said Tim Counts, a
spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in
Bloomington.

The use of real Social Security numbers and birth certificates -- as opposed to
fabricated ones -- made it possible for immigrant workers at Swift plants to
thwart the verification system the company was using, federal officials said.

Swift is one of a few companies nationwide using a voluntary identity
verification program developed by U.S. immigration authorities. The program,
called Basic Pilot, matches Social Security numbers with names.

The system will detect a phony Social Security number or a name that doesn't
match a real number in the federal database, but it can't weed out a person who
has stolen a true Social Security number and name. In other words, it won't spot
an impersonator.

Illegal workers have apparently figured that out. Worthington police Sgt. Kevin
Flynn said his department sees more cases of people buying and selling documents
with real information than with fabricated data.

"Someone would buy your document and work as you," he said. "It's a thriving
business. Some of them buy them from people who are down on their luck."

As a now-retired undercover U.S. customs enforcement agent, Emilio Munoz helped
bust quite a few ID brokers in his 20-plus years.

He said most of the immigrants rounded up Tuesday would probably not face
criminal charges for the false IDs.

"Unless there's been a change, most of those cases are handled in immigration
court to help deport someone,'' Munoz explained. "Few would be sent to the
federal court system for prosecution because to satisfy the federal charge, more
than one fake document is usually needed for evidence."

Munoz said most of those snared in raids targeting ID thefts are usually the
users of the documents, rather than the providers of them. The providers "really
don't worry (about arrest) because they know that their services will be needed
again and again,'' Munoz said.

Employers are often stuck in the middle. They are responsible for verifying
their workers are authorized to work in the United States, but there are limits
on how they go about that, say lawyers, human resource managers and experts in
background screening.

When employers fill out a federal Form I-9 that says they have verified a new
employee's identity, there are a variety of documents to use, from a U.S.
passport to a Social Security card and a driver's license.

But it is up to the employee to choose the document, not the employer.

An employer cannot ask for additional proof, such as a permanent residency card
or other immigration document, for instance, if the employee has already
satisfied the requirement by showing a driver's license in combination with a
Social Security card, said Charles Roach, an attorney and partner in the
Minneapolis law firm of Rider Bennett and chairman of the firm's Labor and
Employment Practice Group.

However, Social Security cards are one of the easiest documents to counterfeit
and fake driver's licenses still abound.

"That's the fine line employers walk," Roach said. "If you fail to complete or
improperly fill out the I-9, you can face sanctions. Or if you ask too much of
the employee, you can face administrative action and be found to have engaged in
unlawful conduct."

Rubén Rosario contributed to this report.

Emily Gurnon can be reached at egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or
651-228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 19, 2006 Tuesday

County questions contract to jail illegal workers;
U.S. immigration agency paid $2 million last year to house detainees in St. Paul

BYLINE: TIM NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 904 words


Ramsey County is considering giving up its lucrative contract with the federal
government to house suspected illegal immigrants in the county jail, with one
county commissioner saying the detentions raise a "moral issue."

Commissioner Rafael Ortega said Monday he plans to ask administrators today
whether the county can afford to say "no" to the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency, which pays $80 a day per detainee for space in the St. Paul
jail. The county received nearly $2 million from the agency last year.

"We have a failed national immigration policy," Ortega said. "We are only Ramsey
County, but I think we need to discuss it. ... It's for us to set an example. We
are not a federal prison. ... It's a moral issue."

The discussion comes amid growing debate about the federal practice of detaining
suspected immigration violators. Ortega said he decided to act after federal
raids last Tuesday at Swift & Co. slaughterhouses in Minnesota and five other
states, which led to the arrests of nearly 1,300 workers.

Local ICE spokesman Tim Counts declined to comment on Ortega's position.

"People are entitled to their opinion," he said.

Counts said ICE has similar contracts with several other facilities in the Twin
Cities, including jails in Sherburne, Carver and Washington counties, but not
Hennepin County. He also said ICE holds detainees at a state prison in Rush
City.

Each contract with each jail is independently negotiated, though none include a
set, minimum number of detainees.

"The contract is like: 'If you have room to hold them, and we have someone
available, this is the rate we've agreed to,' " Counts said.

But from a practical standpoint, metro-area facilities are a better bet.

"Typically, we hold people in the metro area because our office and both
immigration courts are there," he said.

On any given day, there are 150 to 200 detainees in Minnesota jails and prisons,
Counts said. Nationally, about 200,000 people are detained by ICE; of those,
about 57 percent go through 312 county and municipal jails. On average, it costs
the federal government about $95 a day.

As for Ramsey County's share of the detainees, Counts said, "The numbers
fluctuate all the time."

In June, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, ICE's parent agency, said it
needed 35,000 more detention beds to hold those awaiting deportation. By the end
of 2005, 544,000 illegal immigrants had absconded; ICE blamed a lack of beds for
encouraging "an unofficial mini-amnesty" for high-risk aliens.

Local officials, however, say they're reluctant to take custody of the illegal
immigrants for a variety of reasons.

Ortega said he has been closely monitoring the status of immigration detainees
since the April death of Maria Inamagua Merchan, an Ecuadorean native who was
being held in the Ramsey County jail awaiting deportation. She collapsed five
weeks after being detained and later died, apparently of an undiagnosed
parasitic infection.

"There are a lot of issues when you deal with the immigrant population that
we're not geared up to deal with," Ortega said. "There are language issues,
there are cultural issues, there are health issues. We need to examine if this
is a business we want to stay in."

Ramsey County Sheriff Bob Fletcher cited Merchan's case as one of many concerns
he has about what he calls "immigration boarders." His 494-bed jail is home to
about 60 of them on a typical day. He says local pretrial detainees usually
spend just four days behind bars at the Grove Street jail, but detainees brought
in by ICE officials typically stay 100 days.

"When you're housing inmates for that long, the burden shifts to us to be their
caretakers," Fletcher said.

He also cited the growing demand for space: His facility turned away more than
two dozen detainees from immigration raids this month because the jail didn't
have space. (The county also houses female prisoners for Dakota County and
inmates for the state Department of Corrections.)

It isn't clear what direction the county might go on Ortega's suggestion.

Spokesman Dave Verhasselt said Ramsey County got $1.9 million in revenue from
federal immigration authorities for housing detainees last year and had already
received $1.3 million in payments through August -- just short of 1 percent of
the property tax levy.

It is, however, a significant portion of the jail budget: Federal inmate
payments are about 11 percent of the $14.8 million that jail operations are
expected to cost in 2006.

And Fletcher said keeping federal detainees earns more than for other
jurisdictions. Dakota County pays $70 per day to house prisoners in St. Paul,
the state just $55.

County Board Chairman Tony Bennett, a former U.S. marshal, has himself put
detainees in local jails, since the federal government doesn't have a detention
center in Minnesota.

And while he agrees with Ortega that federal immigration policy is increasingly
dysfunctional, he also noted the potential financial impact of rebuffing
immigration detainees.

"One night, when I was marshal, I had to send eight prisoners to Fargo, N.D., to
house them because there was no room for them here. That's expensive," Bennett
said.

Tad Vezner contributed to this report. Tim Nelson can be reached at
tnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-292-1159.

If you go

The Ramsey County Board will discuss the immigration detainee matter at its 9
a.m. meeting today at the Ramsey County Courthouse, 15 W. Kellogg Blvd., in
downtown St. Paul.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday

Deported, are they being shorted?

BYLINE: RUBÉN ROSARIO

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Ruben Rosario

LENGTH: 946 words


Are undocumented workers facing deportation entitled to money taken from their
paychecks by Uncle Sam?

Probably not. Still, it's an intriguing question. And it's one a federal judge
in Minneapolis formally asked in two cases stemming from raids conducted last
December at Swift and Co. meatpacking plants in Worthington, Minn., and across
the nation.

Government officials say the majority of the estimated 11 million to 12 million
illegal immigrants in the U.S. contribute billions of dollars a year in income
taxes, Social Security, and FICA and Medicare deductions - benefits these people
will probably not claim or reap because of their illegal status.

But U.S. District Court Chief Judge James Rosenbaum's surprising question seems
to be challenging that reality. It is certainly raising eyebrows in the Twin
Cities legal community and beyond.

"Personally, I have never heard of a judge making such a request,'' said Josh
Bernstein, federal policy director for the National Immigration Law Center.

During two recent plea hearings, Rosenbaum directed Minnesota federal
prosecutors to find out if the U.S. government owed two illegal immigrants
arrested in the raid any money from payroll taxes withheld while they worked at
the Worthington plant.

The two defendants are Rubisel Mendez-Alvarez and Jildo Hernandez-Ambriz, both
incarcerated since the raid. Mendez-Alvarez, who worked at the plant nearly five
years, pleaded guilty to using a false document to obtain employment. He was
sentenced to time served and will be deported.

Hernandez-Ambriz pleaded guilty March 16 to charges he illegally entered the
country after a previous deportation. Sentencing is pending.

Federal prosecutors responded to the judge after the plea was entered in the
second case.

"The (IRS) does not have a per se bar preventing illegal aliens from receiving
funds due and owing,'' Minnesota U.S. Attorney Rachel Paulose states in a March
21 letter signed by her and sent to Rosenbaum.

In the letter, Paulose revealed a little-known provision. Illegal immigrants are
not entitled to Social Security numbers, one reason for the thriving black
market in duplicate or fake numbers. But undocumented workers can obtain,
through the IRS no less, special numbers that allow them to file a federal tax
return. Millions do, according to researchers and immigration advocates, in the
belief it will help their chances later of legally working here or becoming
citizens. But millions don't, fearing they will be located and deported.

Rosenbaum also reportedly inquired whether Hernandez-Ambriz may be entitled to
money he paid into Social Security.

"The SSA (Social Security Administration) has communicated to the undersigned
the seriousness with which they take the Court's inquiry,'' Paulose wrote in a
March 23 letter to the judge. "The SSA, mindful that an opinion rendered in this
matter may affect substantial numbers of individuals, is giving thorough
consideration to the issues raised by the Court.''

I got a quicker response this week from the SSA regional office in Chicago,
which covers Minnesota and most Midwest states.

"Technically, the answer is no,'' said William Jarrett, a spokesman. "They are
not eligible.''

Rosenbaum, who declined to comment, is a veteran judge who probably already
knows the answers to his questions. So what's his motivation for bringing this
thorny issue up? It's left to others to speculate.

Veteran federal public defender Scott Tilsen, who represents Hernandez-Ambriz,
believes the judge may be sending a message here about the inequities of the
government cracking down and booting illegal immigrants while holding on to the
taxed fruits of their labor.

"I cannot speak for the judge, but perhaps he wants to point out an injustice
going on here,'' Tilsen said. "At least, he deserves credit for asking these
questions.''

That unclaimed Social Security booty is substantial.

The agency's "earnings suspense file,'' a fund generated by W-2 earnings with
incorrect or fictitious Social Security numbers, reported $189 billion in wages
during the 1990s, according to a New York Times story from 2005. The fund is
growing by more than $50 billion a year.

There's no conclusive way to prove the bulk of the unclaimed revenues are tied
to the illegal immigration surge in the past two decades. But SSA officials
believe there's a strong connection. By the agency's own estimates,
three-quarters of working illegal immigrants pay payroll taxes, and they could
account for about 10 percent of current Social Security coffers.

A study by a Washington, D.C., group that opposes amnesty and favors stricter
immigration controls also estimated that the nation's 3.8 million households
headed by undocumented workers kick in almost $7 billion annually to Social
Security.

That should debunk the widely held public perception that most undocumented
workers are paid with cash or off the books.

John Keller, executive director of the Immigration Law Center of Minnesota,
describes Rosenbaum as "historically a fair and decent judge.''

"Perhaps he is simply checking to see whether (these men) have money coming back
through federal tax laws,'' Keller said. "But maybe he's pointing one of the
many double messages the American public gets on the immigration issue: We don't
want you to work here, but if you do, we expect you to file and pay income tax
on the money you earned.''

The government's response came after the first defendant's case was completed.
But it will be interesting to see if it will in any way affect Hernandez-Ambriz
when his sentencing hearing comes up before Rosenbaum in the coming weeks. Stay
tuned.

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday

SOME MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE DEAL

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 263 words



Current illegal immigrants
Could come forward immediately for probationary legal status.
Bill creates a new four-year, renewable "Z" visa for those present in the U.S.
before Jan. 1, 2007.
Undocumented immigrants may adjust status to lawful permanent residents once
they pay $5,000 in fees and fines and their head of household returns to their
home country.
Border security
Hire 18,000 new border agents.
Erect 200 miles of vehicle barriers and 370 miles of fencing along the
U.S.-Mexico border.
Erect 70 ground-based radar and camera towers along the southern border.
Workplace enforcement
Require employers to electronically verify new employees to prove identity and
work eligibility.
Increase penalties for unlawful hiring, employment and record-keeping
violations.
Guest workers
Create a new temporary guest worker program with two-year "Y" visas, initially
capped at 400,000 per year with annual adjustments based on market fluctuations.

Workers could renew the "Y" visa up to three times but would be required to
return home for a year between each. Those bringing dependents could obtain only
one nonrenewable two-year visa.
Future immigrants
Spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and permanent residents would be
eligible for green cards based purely on their family connections, but other
relatives, such as adult children and siblings, would not.
Each year, 380,000 visas would be awarded based on a point system, with about 50
percent based on employment criteria, 25 percent based on education, 15 percent
based on English proficiency and 10 percent based on family connections.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday

Immigration bill's future gets murkier

BYLINE: BY DAVE MONTGOMERY McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 524 words


WASHINGTON - The outlook for a White House-backed immigration bill was
increasingly uncertain Wednesday as several critics hardened their position
against the bill and supporters led by President Bush scrambled to court votes
from wavering senators.

The fate of the president's top domestic initiative could be decided today with
a crucial test in the Senate that will decide whether it moves forward for a
final vote the following day or collapses amid deep political divisions.

"This is going to give new meaning to the notion of close call," said Sen. Ron
Wyden, D-Ore., who said he won't decide whether to support or oppose the
627-page bill until senators complete work on amendments.

The bill, which has come under attack from both ends of the political spectrum,
would legalize 12 million illegal immigrants, create a temporary guest-worker
program, toughen border security and increase penalties for employers who hire
illegal aliens.

A bipartisan group of senators who crafted the legislation with White House help
fended off a series of potentially killer amendments Wednesday and expressed
confidence they could steer the bill to a successful vote on final passage by
late Friday.

But they must first get a 60-vote majority today to begin cutting off debate.

"By tomorrow, we'll either have the votes or we won't," Sen. Lindsey Graham,
R-S.C., one of the bill's leading supporters, said Wednesday. "I believe we
will."

But Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., another supporter, said he was braced for "trench
warfare" and told fellow senators: "It's going to be a rough ride."

Supporters prevailed in an earlier test Tuesday when the Senate voted 64-35 -
four more than the needed 60 votes - to reopen debate on the measure, which was
resurrected after being sidelined for a week by a parliamentary dispute.

But an undetermined number of senators who agreed to bring the bill back up were
thought to be keeping their options open on final passage until a final version
of the bill emerges with the completion of amendments.

At least two Republicans who'd been critical of the bill - Sens. Kay Bailey
Hutchison of Texas and Kit Bond of Missouri - declared their intention to vote
against the measure after the defeat of amendments they had deemed necessary to
gain their support.

Hutchison's amendment, which senators tabled by a surprisingly close 53-45 vote,
would have required adult illegal immigrants to return home before getting Z
visas that would enable them to live and work indefinitely in the United States.

"I don't see how I can support this bill in any form," said Hutchison, adding
that the defeat of her amendment is "going to turn a number of people against
the bill."

Bond's amendment, tabled by a 56-41 vote, would have prevented Z visa holders
from getting green cards to become legal U.S. residents and candidates for
citizenship.

Declaring he will oppose a bill that doesn't include his amendment, Bond said
misgivings over legalization and other aspects of the bill could widen
opposition among Republicans as a final vote approaches. "A lot of people are
taking a look at it," he said. "The more you look at it, the uglier it looks."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 20, 2006 Wednesday

Jail stops housing immigration detainees;
Ramsey County sheriff acts as policy study launched

BYLINE: TIM NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 867 words


The door to the Ramsey County jail is shut for suspected illegal immigrants
picked up by federal immigration authorities.

Sheriff Bob Fletcher said Tuesday he would no longer accept "immigration
boarders" brought to the St. Paul jail by the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency.

Fletcher announced the administrative change the day Ramsey County commissioners
launched a policy study on housing detainees.

"I think you're going in the right direction," Fletcher told the commissioners.

Several commissioners expressed concern about the appropriateness of holding
suspected illegal immigrants in the county jail.

The change of course was prompted by Commissioner Rafael Ortega, of St. Paul,
who said he wanted to see the county get out of the business of holding
immigration detainees. The 494-bed jail averages 60 such detainees per day and
received $2 million from the federal government for doing so last year.

Ortega and others noted that one immigration detainee has been held for more
than 400 days in a jail where the average stay is only four days.

"This isn't going to get any better," he said of the extended stays in the jail.
"It's only going to get worse. We at least need to have a conscious look at our
policies."

He also said that refusing to accommodate immigration detainees is "a simple
issue of social justice."

"These people are here because we need them," Ortega said. "They're part of our
economy."

Commissioner Victoria Reinhardt, of White Bear Lake, agreed and added that
responsibility for the appropriate custody of immigration detainees must
ultimately fall to federal officials.

"I agree with the philosophical position here," she said. "We need to send a
message some way that they need to do their job."

The County Board as a whole, though, reacted with caution on the proposal. Some
said they hadn't been aware of Ortega's plans before Tuesday.

Commissioner Tony Bennett, of Shoreview, said other considerations factor in the
decision, noting the detainees won't be freed just because they are not held in
St. Paul. They will be sent elsewhere, said Bennett, a former U.S. marshal.

Commissioner Jim McDonough, of St. Paul, said routing people elsewhere might
make matters worse for detainees.

"Are we actually doing more harm to people who are already in a tough situation
... separating them further from their families?" McDonough said.

He also advised caution on taking the initiative in matters involving the jail.

"At what point are we going to say we have a problem with this law, and we're
not going to accept people arrested for it," McDonough said. He noted that the
county surely will jail some protesters during the 2008 Republican National
Convention in St. Paul -- a largely Democratic city in a largely Democratic
county.

The matter hasn't yet become an issue in other local facilities that might house
detainees for immigration authorities, though few are in the same position as
Ramsey County.

o Washington and Dakota county jail authorities say their facilities are already
full of local inmates and can't accommodate any other jurisdictions.

o Sherburne County has a contract with Immigration and Customs Enforcement and
was holding 168 of the agency's detainees Tuesday, according to Sheriff Bob
Anderson.

o Carver County doesn't have a formal contract with immigration authorities, but
it has agreed to hold detainees on an as-available basis, according to Sheriff
Bud Olson.

o Anoka County jail Capt. Dave Pacholl said his facility didn't take immigration
detainees for practical reasons, citing the language and translation demands
immigrants put on jail staff.

Fletcher told Ramsey County commissioners that detainees in his jail come from
dozens of countries and speak 12 languages that require more attention from
staff. He has also cited the safety risk of housing nonviolent immigration
offenders on a long-term basis with suspected "murderers, serious weapons
offenders and rapists."

Although illegal immigration is a hotly debated issue, public presence at
Tuesday's discussion was small. Deborah Rosenstein, a program coordinator with
the Labor Education Service at the University of Minnesota and a St. Paul
resident, later expressed her support for the board's consideration.

"To me, this is a humanitarian issue," she said. "It is absolutely horrible what
happened in the Worthington raids (on a Swift & Co. meatpacking plant). We have
a crisis here, and I am glad to be a part of a community that's addressing it."

Commissioners, though, only directed county administrators to study the
potential impact of turning away detainees in the custody of immigration
authorities.

Fletcher thought it could be as much as $800,000 next year. Commissioners are
expecting initial results sometime next month.

Nancy Yang and Frederick Melo contributed to this report. Tim Nelson can be
reached at tnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-292-1159.

"To me, this is a humanitarian issue. It is absolutely horrible what happened in
the Worthington raids (on a Swift & Co. meatpacking plant). We have a crisis
here, and I am glad to be a part of a community that's addressing it."

Deborah Rosenstein, program coordinator with the Labor Education Service at the
University of Minnesota

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday

Madison, Wis. / 2 accused of smuggling workers

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Wisconsin

LENGTH: 197 words


A federal grand jury has indicted two Wisconsin men on charges they smuggled
illegal immigrants into Wisconsin and harbored them at hotels.

Siddhartha "Sam" Shah, 51, of Pleasant Prairie, arranged and paid for
Guatemalans to be smuggled to Wisconsin, where he arranged for them to live and
work at Super 8 motels in Wisconsin Dells and Pleasant Prairie while taking
steps to hide the operation, U.S. Attorney Erik Peterson said in a statement.

Shah also is accused of directing a former employee to lie to federal agents
about the circumstances surrounding posting a bond to secure the release of a
smuggled immigrant found at the Wisconsin Dells Super 8 and harboring an illegal
immigrant at the hotel Sept. 22.

Jignesh "Mark" Jagaria, 36, of Wisconsin Dells, is accused of harboring an
illegal immigrant at the Wisconsin Dells motel and helping a worker elude
immigration authorities.

Peterson's statement didn't elaborate on the charges. First Assistant U.S.
Attorney Stephen Sinnott didn't immediately return a phone call early Tuesday
evening.

The grand jury returned the indictment Thursday. It was unsealed Tuesday.

Shah and Jagaria could not be reached for comment.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 11, 2008 Thursday

Grand Portage / Man admits to smuggling 2 men

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 104 words


A 31-year-old Polish national has pleaded guilty to smuggling two illegal
immigrants into the United States near Grand Portage.

Marek Jerzy Struzik pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court in Minneapolis to
one count of alien smuggling.

Under the plea agreement, Struzik admitted that on Aug. 1, he tried to smuggle
immigrants into the U.S. He said he brought the two men to the border and
assisted them in crossing into the U.S. by the Pigeon River.

The plea agreement said Struzik knew the individuals were illegal immigrants
from Poland and Slovakia. Struzik was paid $2,500 for his efforts in the scheme.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 23, 2006 Monday

Why not look abroad to fill ranks?

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 719 words


WASHINGTON -- America is a land of immigrants. Whatever one thinks of the
immigration debate today, particularly the problem of illegal immigrants,
foreigners have played a central role in the building of America. Many have done
so as soldiers, among them Baron von Steuben and the Marquis de Lafayette in the
Revolutionary War.

Now is the time to consider a new chapter in the annals of American immigration.
By inviting foreigners to join the U.S. armed forces in exchange for a promise
of citizenship after a four-year tour of duty, we could continue to attract some
of the world's most enterprising, selfless and talented individuals. We could
provide a new path toward assimilation for undocumented immigrants who are
already here but lack the prerequisite for enlistment -- a green card. And we
could solve the No. 1 problem facing the Army and Marine Corps: the fact that
these services need to grow to meet current commitments yet cannot easily do so
(absent a draft) given the current recruiting environment.

Not only would immigrants provide a valuable influx of highly motivated
soldiers, they would also address one of America's key deficiencies in the
battle against Islamist extremists: our lack of knowledge of the languages and
mores in the lands where terrorists reside. Newly arrived Americans can help us
avoid trampling on local sensitivities and thereby creating more enemies than we
eliminate.

Skeptics might point out that in the just-concluded fiscal year, the military
met most of its recruiting and retention goals. But this was done only by
relaxing age and aptitude restrictions, allowing in more individuals with
criminal records, and greatly increasing the number of recruiters and
advertising dollars. These measures cannot be pushed much further.

The Army chief of staff, Gen. Peter Schoomaker, has just forecast that U.S.
commitments in Iraq may remain at their current level until 2010. With most
soldiers and Marines already on a third or even fourth deployment since Sept.
11, 2001, it's doubtful that the all-volunteer force can withstand such a
commitment at its current size. Even if it could, it's unfair to ask so much of
so few for so long.

Some might object to our proposal on moral grounds, arguing that it is wrong to
rely on "mercenaries" and to use such incentives to get prospective immigrants
to fight. We disagree. For one thing, we already rely on tens of thousands of
real mercenaries: the security contractors the U.S. government employs from
Colombia to Iraq to make up for lack of troops. Immigrants who enrolled in our
armed forces would be more valuable because they would be under military
discipline and motivated by more than just a paycheck.

As for the risks they would run in Iraq or Afghanistan, no one would be forced
to serve. No existing immigration quotas would be reduced. The military avenue
to citizenship would be a new option, not an obligation.

Nativists need not fear that this would lead to a flood of foreigners. Say we
decide to recruit 50,000 foreigners a year for the next three years. That sounds
like a lot, but it represents less than 10 percent of the total number coming to
the United States anyway -- and less than 10 percent of our active-duty armed
forces. This would not radically change the demographics of our society or our
military, but it would make a big difference in the size of the rotation base
for our ongoing missions.

Despite growing anti-Americanism, U.S. citizenship is still one of the world's
most precious commodities, so there should be no shortage of volunteers.
Screening would have to be done to ensure that would-be terrorists did not gain
access to the armed forces through this program.

Unlike most issues in the immigration debate, the idea of offering citizenship
to foreigners who first join the armed forces should be a winner for everyone.
It is good for immigrants who wish to pursue U.S. citizenship, which they could
not otherwise attain. It is good for a beleaguered American military that is
simply too small for the tasks it has been handed. And it is good for the
country, bringing more hardworking patriots to our shores.

Max Boot is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Michael
O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. They wrote this
article for the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 30, 2006 Monday

Governor, opponents hit familiar themes;
Pawlenty, Hatch, Hutchinson tackle immigration, gas tax, labor laws in polite
debate

BYLINE: BILL SALISBURY, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 670 words


Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty accused Attorney General Mike Hatch during a
televised debate Sunday night of doublespeak on gas taxes.

Democrat Hatch blamed the Republican governor for failing to penalize employers
who hire illegal immigrants.

The Independence Party's Peter Hutchinson criticized both of his rivals for
making $1 billion in campaign promises and not saying how they would pay for
them.

With eight days until the election, the three major-party candidates for
governor covered familiar ground on taxes, education and immigration during
their first debate before a prime-time statewide television audience. The League
of Women Voters-sponsored forum at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul was
broadcast to an estimated 300,000 viewers by KSTP-TV in the Twin Cities and TV
stations in Duluth and Austin.

The candidates disagreed on the issues without being disagreeable. They were no
angry outbursts, no name-calling and even when invited to criticize each other
the tone was restrained.

A well-worn theme ran through the discussion with challengers Hatch and
Hutchinson saying Pawlenty has left the state in bad shape, while the governor,
referring to his opponents as "Mr. Doom and Mr. Gloom,'' ticked off a long list
of Minnesota success stories.

Pawlenty and Hatch have been exchanging stinging TV ads over immigration in
recent days. Hutchinson said they were trying to exploit an emotional but not
very important issue.

"Illegal immigration is being brought up again this year as it was four years
ago for one and only one reason -- to divide Minnesotans against themselves for
political purposes, not in the interest of resolving the issue,'' he said.

He reiterated his support for the so-called "Dream Act" that would allow
children of illegal immigrants who graduate after three years in a Minnesota
high school and are working toward citizenship to attend public colleges at
in-state tuition rates.

"Illegal immigration is a legitimate and serious issue in the country," Pawlenty
responded, "and anybody who doesn't see that, I think, needs to get out a little
more."

Hatch attacked the governor for failing to enforce labor laws at meatpacking and
poultry plants and construction sites where employers allegedly pay immigrants
substandard wages to work in unsafe conditions. "Basically, employers are
rewarded by the failure of the Pawlenty administration to enforce the labor
laws," he said, adding that if elected he would clamp down on such violations.

Pawlenty accused Hatch of "triple speak" on immigration. He contended Hatch
first said the state has no role in immigration, then claimed employers are
violating the law, but still wouldn't do anything about it.

The three disagreed on gasoline taxes. Hutchinson reiterated his support for a
10-cents-a-gallon gas tax increase. Pawlenty, who vetoed a dime gas tax increase
last year, reiterated his opposition to any tax increase. Hatch said he, too,
opposes raising the gas tax but added that if the Legislature passed one, he
would not veto it.

That prompted Pawlenty to accuse the attorney general of doublespeak. Hutchinson
agreed, telling Hatch, "You can't be for it and against it at the same time."

The governor challenged his rivals to support a cap on local property tax
increases, but Hatch said local governments need the flexibility to make those
decisions, and Hutchinson said a governor should partner with local officials
instead of imposing mandates on them.

Asked what they disliked about each other, Hutchinson said Pawlenty is a gifted
communicator who twists the facts and Hatch is a bulldog whose aggressiveness
alienates people. Hatch refused to criticize either candidate, and the only
thing Pawlenty disliked about Hutchinson was his striped tie.

Two more gubernatorial debates are scheduled before the election. The three
candidates will appear on Twin Cities Public Television's "Almanac" show Friday
night and on Minnesota Public Radio on Sunday night.

Bill Salisbury can be reached at bsalisbury@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5538.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday

Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 172 words


Border Patrol catching fewer illegal immigrants

Washington Post

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Border Patrol apprehended 8 percent fewer illegal
immigrants last fiscal year than the year before, reversing a two-year increase
in the historically volatile benchmark, Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff said Monday.

Chertoff credited the drop of nearly 100,000 apprehensions largely to the Bush
administration's strategy of deporting virtually all non-Mexican border crossers
as fast as they are caught.

After quadrupling the previous four years, apprehensions of non-Mexicans fell 35
percent to 108,026 last year. The total number of apprehensions in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30 was nearly 1.1 million.

Analysts disputed Chertoff's claim. Border Patrol apprehensions historically
rise and fall, peaking at almost 1.7 million in 2000 and bottoming out at
932,000 in 2003. Experts instead said the announcement was the administration's
latest effort to walk a political tightrope on illegal immigration heading into
the Nov. 7 elections.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday

Swift plants reopen after immigration raids

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 299 words


Swift & Co., the third-largest U.S. beef producer, said six meatpacking plants,
including one in Worthington, are operating again after being shut down
yesterday when federal agents raided the facilities in a probe into possible
hiring of illegal aliens.

Production was restored at reduced capacity at all four beef plants and two pork
facilities, Swift spokesman Sean McHugh said in an e-mail. He did not say the
degree to which output was cut. The beef plants normally process about 11
percent of the cattle slaughtered each day in the U.S.

During the raids investigators found evidence of "substantial" identity theft
involving a crime ring that produced fake documents including birth certificates
and Social Security numbers, according to the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security. More than 1,000 agents took part in the raids.

U.S. officials yesterday said "hundreds" of arrests were expected for violations
of immigration laws and on existing criminal warrants. The number of arrests
were to be announced today at a press conference in Washington. Closely held
Swift & Co. was not charged.

Swift employs about 15,000 workers in the U.S. The Swift beef plants raided are
in Greeley; Grand Island, Nebraska; Hyrum, Utah; and Cactus, Texas. The Cactus
plant is Swift's largest. The affected pork plants are in Marshalltown, Iowa,
and Worthington.

Swift can process 15,850 head of cattle a day, compared with total U.S. capacity
of 140,000, according to Cattle Buyers Weekly, a trade newsletter. Tyson Foods
Inc., the largest U.S. beef processor, can slaughter about 33,000 head a day,
while Minnetonka-based Cargill Inc.'s Cargill Meat Solutions, the
second-largest, can process about 29,000.

The plants process all of Swift beef in the U.S. and 77 percent of its pork, the
company said yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday

immigration raids in southern Minnesota

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 182 words


July 2004:Immigration officials announced the arrests, convictions and
deportations of 10 Austin meatpackers for their roles in a prostitution ring
involving a mentally disabled 14-year-old girl. Officials said the men lived and
worked under false identities.

March 1998:Eighty-three suspected illegal immigrants were detained in a sweep in
southern Minnesota and southeastern South Dakota. Packing plant workers were
taken into custody in Worthington, Wells and Windom, Minn., and Sioux Falls,
S.D.

April 1995:Sixty-two suspected illegal immigrants were arrested for allegedly
having false documents, identification cards and employment records. In
Minnesota, detentions were made in Worthington, Luverne, Marshall and
Minneapolis. Others were arrested in Grand Forks, N.D., and Nebraska.

April 1993:Officials arrested 55 suspected illegal immigrants in Worthington and
Madelia. Many were picked up at food-processing plants.

November 1992:Immigration officials and local authorities arrested 25 alleged
illegal immigrants in Marshall. Also arrested was the alleged supplier of false
identifications.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

Worthington still reeling after raid Community scrambles to handle fallout

BYLINE: MARICELLA MIRANDA AND JOHN BREWER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1421 words


WORTHINGTON, Minn. -- The day after wasn't any easier.

Residents of this southwestern Minnesota community were coping Wednesday with
the fear, uncertainty and anxiety created by a surprise raid the day before at
Worthington's Swift & Co. pork-processing plant, where 230 people were detained
for alleged immigration violations. Churches scrambled to find housing for
children whose parents were swept up, a few businesses remained shuttered, and
many people were too afraid to set foot outside their homes.

"It's almost ... I can't believe this is happening. I just can't believe it,"
said Sister Karen Thein of St. Mary's Catholic Church. She had been working
since 4 a.m. Wednesday to help people affected by the raid. She had even made
three pharmacy runs to pick up medication for Latino residents who were staying
indoors.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Wednesday that the six
raids on Swift meatpacking plants in Worthington and five other states uncovered
a "disturbing front" in the battle against illegal immigration -- identity theft
as a tool to obtain employment.

The raids on the facilities of the Greeley, Colo.-based company added up to the
largest-ever workplace crackdown on illegal immigration, said Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff.

Some 5 percent of the 1,282 arrests -- about 65 total -- resulted in identity
theft charges, and Chertoff said the number probably would rise as agents look
into more workers' cases and into rings of vendors who steal and sell illegal
documents.

None of the Worthington detainees had been charged with identity theft crimes as
of Wednesday night; rather, they were being held on administrative immigration
violations.

Francisca Martinez, 33, has worked at Swift for four years and was detained
briefly when she couldn't turn up her proof of residency during the raid. She
said she was treated well, while some detainees were yelled at.

"The people are here to work, not to steal from anybody. They are treating
everybody like criminals,'' she said.

Her department at Swift, usually 200 strong, barely had 50 people Wednesday.

"Everybody on the line was crying for their co-workers who were gone," she said.
"I was in shock. I couldn't cry."

Meg Brickson, assistant manager at Sterling Drug, said business slowed after the
raid and few people were leaving their homes. Many of the drugstore's customers
are Latino, she said.

My "main concern was the children," Brickson said. "These children are innocent,
and they're United States citizens. But identity theft needs to be solved, too.
Nobody wants their identity stolen."

Brickson, 49, and co-worker Ida Reimer -- both longtime Worthington residents --
said the community has changed drastically during the past 15 years after an
influx of immigrants seeking work at the packing plant, which employs more than
2,000. Most residents today participate in multicultural festivals and shop at
local ethnic stores that sell food and goods from other countries. A few years
ago, downtown had one Mexican restaurant. Today, there are five.

Those businesses serve a growing Latino population in town -- one in five of
Worthington's 11,283 residents are Latino -- and many of them work at Swift.

Several families with detainees live at Sungold Heights Mobile Home Park. Dora
Rodriguez, 23, and her mother, Maria Pena, said they saw people being taken from
their houses by federal agents Tuesday night when they didn't show up for work
at Swift. They knew of several families whose children were left alone at home.
Those children were later taken in by other family members or churches.

"I'm mad," said Pena, who is a U.S. citizen. "I've been here for almost 15
years. I've never seen anything like this. Nobody wants to open their door and
talk to anybody because they don't want to be in trouble."

The roundup didn't sit well with City Council Member Mike Woll, who said he
believes immigration issues must be resolved, just not in the middle of the
workplace.

"It seems like we're trying to address immigration and go way to the end of it
-- where people have assimilated. They have homes, their kids are going to
school," he said. "We do a raid on a cold winter day and call it national
policy."

The Nobles County jail was holding 41 of the detainees, said jail administrator
Monette Soderholm. Many others were sent to holding facilities in Sioux Falls,
S.D.

"We're just giving them a place to sleep," Soderholm said. "We'll hold them
until ICE is done with their work."

Officials with ICE would not reveal where the detainees will be moved to, but
said they will be able to communicate with family members and will be afforded
due process.

Families were to have their first chance to visit at 9 a.m. today -- if they are
willing to venture out.

Storeowners closed some ethnic "tiendas" Wednesday -- out of fear and because of
slow business. La Azteca, a Mexican grocery store attached to a restaurant,
remained open since most of its customers are white, said Vanessa Topete, a
worker.

"It's sad," Topete said, tears running down her face. "They're just working. If
that's what they have to do to get money for their families -- then that's what
they have to do."

Bill Keitel, 54, a 35-year Worthington resident, said that when he first moved
to the city there were two minority families. Today, he can easily greet people
throughout town in nine different languages. He credits the Latino community for
increasing the city's population in the wake of the emptying-out of much of the
rural Midwest.

"There is a need for employment at these facilities," Keitel said.

Joseph Amato, professor emeritus of history at Southwest Minnesota State
University in Marshall, said Worthington would be just another dying farmtown
were it not for immigrants.

"The 1990 census was kind of painful for them," Amato said. "They always thought
they were a city of 10,000," a regional commercial hub. "And all of a sudden
they discovered they were going downward."

For the 2000 census, city officials made a concerted effort to count every
resident, including immigrants. The influx of newcomers proved to be a boon. The
city's population came in at 11,283.

"It's extraordinary," Amato said.

But not everyone in Worthington is sympathetic to housing potentially
undocumented workers.

Pat Van Waus, 53, moved to town 18 years ago to raise a family. She doesn't
oppose the government organizing raids to find illegal immigrants. She said
everyone should obey the law.

"Our country was made because of our rules," Van Waus said. "If you're going to
be here, you need to follow the rules. When we first moved here, it was nothing
like it is now."

Worthington's education system has suffered because more and more children in
school don't know English, leaving little time for teaching, Van Waus said.

"I do worry about the younger kids getting the education they need," she said.

About 40 to 60 children were out of school Wednesday because of the raids,
Superintendent John Landgaard estimated. The district serves about 2,000
students.

"We've been talking to parents and kids and a variety of organizations. The
safest place for kids is in school," he said. While he said the loss of state
funding could be a problem for the district if students don't return to school,
he was more worried with the immediate prospect there could be some parentless
children who have fallen through the hastily built safety net.

"I'm more concerned that we didn't miss one of those kids out there, who right
now might be wondering what they're supposed to be doing," he said.

Sister Karen, the nun at St. Mary's Catholic Church, said that any children who
were without parents Tuesday -- about four -- had been placed with relatives or
friends by Wednesday.

Susana De León, a Minneapolis immigration attorney representing detainees, said
ICE agents held people for at least three hours -- some in handcuffs -- while
questioning them. Families were denied the right to get their documents from
home. Workers with blond hair were told to go home after telling agents they
were U.S. citizens. At least one U.S. citizen is unaccounted for, she said.

De León estimated 32 people were released by Wednesday afternoon.

Bruce Nestor, an attorney working with De León, said they are considering filing
a lawsuit related to the unlawful detention and false imprisonment of U.S.
citizens and people with lawful immigration status.

The Rev. Larry Brixius, of St. Mary's, said the raid was traumatic for many.

It's "like terrorism through this community."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 15, 2006 Friday

Need phony ID? Cops say he sold the real thing;
Prosecutors accuse Worthington man of offering illegal immigrants authentic
papers from Puerto Rico

BYLINE: SHANNON PRATHER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 741 words


A phone call and $1,000.

In Worthington, Minn., that's all it took for immigrants without documents to
get a genuine birth certificate and Social Security card -- papers that could
land them jobs at the slaughterhouse.

Bismarck Guillen-Esquivel, according to a federal indictment, was the guy to
see.

He was selling the good stuff: authentic citizenship papers he'd scored in the
U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. Those documents commanded premium price because
workers potentially could use them to skirt the verification system at the Swift
& Co. hog processing plant.

Operations like the one Guillen-Esquivel is accused of running highlight what
federal officials called a disturbing trend of illegal immigrants using stolen
identities. On Tuesday, agents arrested nearly 1,300 workers, including 230 in
Worthington, at Swift plants across the country.

Some immigration-rights advocates called the government's focus on identity
theft a scare tactic. They noted that only 65 of those arrested -- none in
Minnesota -- were held on ID theft or other criminal charges.

Still, the unlawful document trade appears to be thriving in areas that draw
immigrants desperate for papers. In the Twin Cities, a federal indictment in
October accused three men of using computers, printers and laminators to produce
fake documents. The phony certificates and Social Security cards produced were
going for about a quarter of the price of those in Worthington, apparently
because they were not authentic.

A month before the Swift raid, agents moved in on one of the document suppliers.
A federal grand jury indicted Guillen-Esquivel in November on charges of
document trafficking, aggravated identity theft and the illegal sale of Social
Security cards. He is in Anoka County jail awaiting trial .

"There is a lot of discovery to go through. There is a lot of work to be done on
it," said Guillen-Esquivel's federal public defender, Manvir Kaur Atwal.

Atwal said federal authorities have focused more attention on immigration and
identity theft since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Worthington police tipped off federal authorities to Guillen-Esquivel in May,
according to a federal search warrant. Guillen-Esquivel, a Honduran national,
was working out of a Worthington apartment.

The search warrant describes an efficient operation. An undercover agent, posing
as a buyer, called Guillen-Esquivel on July 27, looking to set up a buy.
Guillen-Esquivel said a birth certificate and corresponding Social Security card
would cost $850. Half was due in advance.

Guillen-Esquivel and the undercover agent met Aug. 2 to make the down payment.
The agent picked up the documents Aug. 7 at 1202 E. Ninth Ave. in Worthington.
The transaction took place in the agent's car, with Guillen-Esquivel handing
over the promised documents in a plain white envelope. Investigation further
revealed the documents were genuine.

Agents repeated buys in September and November. This time, Guillen-Esquivel
charged $1,000 for each set of documents, and the down payments had to be wired
to Juana Diaz, Puerto Rico.

The additional birth certificates and Social Security cards the agents purchased
were also determined to be genuine documents from Puerto Rico.

"It's a big problem here,'' said Christopher Tremann, resident agent in charge
of the State Department's diplomatic security wing in San Juan, Puerto Rico.

"Since the majority of the island's populace has Hispanic surnames, and they are
U.S. citizens, they become the perfect ID cover also for illegal immigrants from
Mexico, Honduras, Ecuador and other countries,'' Tremann said.

"We are seeing everything -- documents, lost or stolen, or people selling their
identity without knowing what the consequences will be."

Other federal cases make it clear that those in the market for illegal documents
have choices for quality and cost.

A federal grand jury indicted three men accused of producing counterfeit Social
Security cards and permanent-resident cards and selling them for as little as
$180 or as much as $230 per deal.

Authorities allege two of the men set up a document mill in their apartment in
the 2400 block of Elliott Avenue South in Minneapolis. The suspects obtained
sheets of laminates containing holograms used to verify documents from the
United States, California, Minnesota, Texas and Mexico, according to an
indictment.

Rubén Rosario contributed to this report. Shannon Prather can be reached at
651-228-5452 sprather@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 15, 2006 Friday

Need phony ID? Get the real thing -- for a price;
Prosecutors say a Worthington man offered illegal immigrants authentic papers
from Puerto Rico

BYLINE: SHANNON PRATHER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 739 words


A phone call and $1,000.

In Worthington, Minn., that's all it took for immigrants without documents to
get a genuine birth certificate and Social Security card -- papers that could
land them jobs at the slaughterhouse.

Bismarck Guillen-Esquivel, according to a federal indictment, was the guy to
see.

He was selling the good stuff: authentic citizenship papers he'd scored in the
U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. Those documents commanded premium price because
workers potentially could use them to skirt the verification system at the Swift
& Co. hog processing plant.

Operations like the one Guillen-Esquivel is accused of running highlight what
federal officials called a disturbing trend of illegal immigrants using stolen
identities. On Tuesday, agents arrested nearly 1,300 workers, including 230 in
Worthington, at Swift plants across the country.

Some immigration-rights advocates called the government's focus on identity
theft a scare tactic. They noted that only 65 of those arrested -- none in
Minnesota -- were held on ID theft or other criminal charges.

Still, the unlawful document trade appears to be thriving in areas that draw
immigrants desperate for papers. In the Twin Cities, a federal indictment in
October accused three men of using computers, printers and laminators to produce
fake documents. The phony certificates and Social Security cards produced were
going for about a quarter of the price of those in Worthington, apparently
because they were not authentic.

A month before the Swift raid, agents moved in on one of the document suppliers.
A federal grand jury indicted Guillen-Esquivel in November on charges of
document trafficking, aggravated identity theft and the illegal sale of Social
Security cards. He awaits trial in the Anoka County jail.

"There is a lot of discovery to go through. There is a lot of work to be done on
it," said Guillen-Esquivel's federal public defender, Manvir Kaur Atwal.

Atwal said federal authorities have focused more attention on immigration and
identity theft since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Worthington police tipped off federal authorities to Guillen-Esquivel in May,
according to a federal search warrant. Guillen-Esquivel, a Honduran national,
was working out of a Worthington apartment.

The search warrant describes an efficient operation. An undercover agent, posing
as a buyer, called Guillen-Esquivel on July 27, looking to set up a buy.
Guillen-Esquivel said a birth certificate and corresponding Social Security card
would cost $850. Half was due in advance.

Guillen-Esquivel and the undercover agent met Aug. 2 to make the down payment.
The agent picked up the documents Aug. 7 at 1202 E. Ninth Ave. in Worthington.
The transaction took place in the agent's car, with Guillen-Esquivel handing
over the promised documents in a plain white envelope. Investigation further
revealed the documents were genuine.

Agents repeated buys in September and November. This time, Guillen-Esquivel
charged $1,000 for each set of documents, and the down payments had to be wired
to Juana Diaz, Puerto Rico.

The additional birth certificates and Social Security cards the agents purchased
were also determined to be genuine documents from Puerto Rico.

"It's a big problem here,'' said Christopher Tremann, resident agent in charge
of the State Department's diplomatic security wing in San Juan, Puerto Rico.

"Since the majority of the island's populace has Hispanic surnames, and they are
U.S. citizens, they become the perfect ID cover also for illegal immigrants from
Mexico, Honduras, Ecuador and other countries,'' Tremann said.

"We are seeing everything -- documents, lost or stolen, or people selling their
identity without knowing what the consequences will be."

Other federal cases make it clear that those in the market for illegal documents
have choices for quality and cost.

A federal grand jury indicted three men accused of producing counterfeit Social
Security cards and permanent-resident cards and selling them for as little as
$180 or as much as $230 per deal.

Authorities allege two of the men set up a document mill in their apartment in
the 2400 block of Elliott Avenue South. The suspects obtained sheets of
laminates containing holograms used to verify documents from the United States,
California, Minnesota, Texas and Mexico, according to an indictment.

Rubén Rosario contributed to this report. Shannon Prather can be reached at
651-228-5452 sprather@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Janitorial firm snared in probe

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 981 words


WASHINGTON -- More than 200 illegal immigrants were arrested and three officials
at a nationwide janitorial service face federal fraud and tax charges after an
investigation of cleaning crews at a northern Michigan resort, government
officials said. The illegal immigrants were working as janitors for Nevada-based
Rosenbaum-Cunningham International Inc., or RCI, a cleaning contractor for
businesses. The workers were swept up early Thursday in 63 locations nationwide,
including restaurants such as the House of Blues, Hard Rock Cafe, ESPN Zone,
Planet Hollywood and others, according to a law enforcement official. RCI
co-owners Richard M. Rosenbaum and Edward Scott Cunningham, and firm controller
Christina Flocken, face various criminal fraud, immigration and tax charges in
the 23-count indictment unsealed in U.S. District Court in Grand Rapids, Mich.

Space walkers fix

balky antenna

KOROLYOV, Russia -- A U.S. astronaut and his Russian crewmate took their tools
and stepped outside the international space station for an orbital repair job
Thursday, fighting an overheated spacesuit with a fogged-up helmet to fix a
faulty antenna. When a hammer didn't do the trick, cosmonaut Mikhail Tyurin cut
a metal lock holding the antenna in place with a tool resembling garden shears
-- breathing heavily in the heat of a suit plagued by temperature control
problems through much of the six-hour, 13-minute spacewalk. Tyurin and American
astronaut Michael Lopez-Alegria were dispatched to free up the stuck antenna on
a Russian Progress cargo ship, to keep it from snagging when the vessel undocks
from the station.

Egyptian blogger

convicted of slight

ALEXANDRIA, Egypt -- An Egyptian blogger was convicted Thursday and sentenced to
four years in prison for insulting Islam and Egypt's president, sending a chill
through fellow Internet writers who fear a government crackdown. Abdel Kareem
Nabil, a 22-year-old former student at Egypt's Al-Azhar University, had been a
vocal secularist and sharp critic of conservative Muslims in his blog. He often
lashed out at Al-Azhar -- the most prominent religious center in Sunni Islam --
calling it "the university of terrorism" and accusing it of encouraging
extremism. Nabil's lawyer, Ahmed Seif el-Islam, said he would appeal the
verdict, adding it will "terrify other bloggers."

Extremists threaten

peacekeeping forces

MOGADISHU, Somalia -- Extremists in Somalia on Thursday threatened to carry out
suicide attacks against African Union peacekeepers who are to begin deploying
soon. A newly formed extremist group known as the Popular Resistance Movement in
the Land of the Two Migrations posted a new warning against planned
peacekeepers. Meanwhile, the capital's international airport came under mortar
fire Thursday. At least two mortar rounds exploded near the runway but caused no
damage, airport director Mohamed Ahmed Siyad said.

Bush touts non-corn

sources for ethanol

FRANKLINTON, N.C. -- Trying to draw attention to his domestic agenda, President
Bush on Thursday extolled the science of turning grasses and wood chips into
ethanol to lessen the U.S. thirst for foreign oil. "If you really want to reduce
the amount of oil that you consume, you have to reduce the amount of gasoline
you use," Bush said on a road trip to push energy initiatives he announced last
month in his State of the Union address. Bush has proposed ramping up the
production of alternative fuels such as ethanol made from something other than
corn. The call for sharp increases in ethanol use will get bipartisan support in
Congress. But production of ethanol from corn is expected to fall far short of
meeting such an increase. So Bush envisions a major speedup of research into
production of "cellulosic" ethanol made from wood chips, switchgrass and other
feedstocks.

Lawyers say Padilla

can't aid his defense

MIAMI -- Alleged al-Qaida operative Jose Padilla suffers from intense stress and
anxiety after being imprisoned in isolation for years and cannot adequately help
his lawyers prepare for a criminal trial, a mental expert testified Thursday.
Dr. Angela Hegarty, a forensic neuropsychiatrist, said she concluded after
examining and testing Padilla for more than 22 hours last year that he suffers
from post-traumatic stress disorder and is mentally incompetent for trial.
Padilla's symptoms are most acute when he is asked about his 3½ years in custody
at a Navy brig or to review evidence in the case such as transcripts of
telephone conversations, she said. "He doesn't want to because it hurts so much,
and because it hurts so much he shuts down," Hegarty said.

Cluster bombs

targeted for ban

OSLO, Norway -- Representatives from 48 nations on Thursday launched a global
effort to ban the use, production and stockpiling of cluster bombs by the end of
next year, despite the opposition of several of the world's major military
powers. A draft declaration, obtained by the Associated Press, said these
weapons -- which can linger on former battlefields for years -- cause
"unacceptable harm." It calls for a treaty banning them by 2008, despite
concerns that some countries would not agree to act that quickly. Norway hopes
the treaty would be similar to one outlawing anti-personnel mines, negotiated in
Oslo in 1997.

Indonesian ferry

burns, killing 16

JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Sixteen people died and scores were injured Thursday when
fire engulfed an Indonesian ferry. The Levina 1 was carrying 300 passengers when
a pre-dawn blaze broke out in a truck on the car deck hours after the ferry left
the capital, Jakarta, for the northwestern island of Bangka. The cause of the
fire was not known. Remarkably, 275 people were rescued from the Java Sea and
the 2,000-ton vessel's charred hull by fishing boats, warships and helicopters,
averting a second major maritime disaster in Indonesia the last several months.
In late December, a ferry sank in the Java Sea, killing more than 400.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 19, 2007 Monday

Show Mexican ID, open an account;
Minnesota banks vying for Hispanic clients say accepting foreign papers serves a
growing community. Critics want the practice banned to fight illegal immigration
and terrorism.

BYLINE: NICOLE GARRISON-SPRENGER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1109 words


Maria Garcia has done a lot of banking with Wells Fargo since coming to the Twin
Cities from Mexico more than a decade ago.

She holds checking and savings accounts at the bank and often uses Wells Fargo's
money transfer services to send cash to her parents and children still living
south of the border.

"Having this bank account is just fabulous," she said.

Though Garcia, who lives in Minneapolis, describes herself as a permanent legal
resident, she is not a U.S. citizen and does not have a Social Security number.
She used a Matricula Consular identification card issued by the Mexican
government to open her bank accounts.

But that card and the availability of financial services to non-U.S. citizens
have come under fire recently, creating a clash between advocates of immigration
reform and banks, which regard immigrants as an important source of new
business.

A bill introduced earlier this month by U.S. Rep. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn.,
would require U.S. financial institutions to accept only U.S.-issued
identification or foreign-issued passports, effectively banning the acceptance
of Matricula cards. The American Bankers Association issued a statement opposing
the bill.

When Bank of America said in February it was issuing credit cards to customers
without Social Security numbers, the Charlotte, N.C.-based bank faced a
firestorm of criticism, including some from a Minnesota group.

"This program rewards lawbreakers who have broken our immigration laws and, in
addition, threatens our homeland security through possible use by terrorists,"
said Ruthie Hendrycks, founder of Hanska, Minn.-based Minnesotans Seeking
Immigration Reform, which has lobbied for restrictions similar to those in
Blackburn's bill.

Bankers say that, by accepting Matricula cards, they aren't taking sides in the
immigration debate but are merely responding to changing demographics.

"We don't question the legal or immigration status of any of our customers or
potential customers," said Kelly Gosz, a Wells Fargo community banking president
from Minneapolis.

"We are in 24 states and, by tradition and by mandate, banks are all part of the
community," said Christine Hobrough, regional market manager for U.S. Bank in
the Twin Cities. "This is a way for us to serve a growing segment of our
community."

MATRICULA CONSULAR

The Matricula Consular is an identification card issued by the Mexican
government to any Mexican national living abroad. Other countries issue similar
forms of identification.

More than 90 U.S. banks accept the Matricula card for the purpose of opening
bank accounts. The law doesn't require banks to ask whether an account applicant
is a U.S. citizen, and the Matricula card doesn't mention the holder's
immigration status in the United States or any other country. It simply reveals
the person's identity, place of residence and place of birth.

People who hold Matricula cards aren't necessarily illegal immigrants.

"I have diplomatic status in the U.S. and I have my Matricula Consular," said
Nathan Wolf, head of the Mexican consulate in St. Paul. "There is no relation
between having the Matricula Consular and being documented or undocumented."

Matricula cardholders may be refugees or permanent residents, such as Garcia.
Some of them, like Garcia, have signed up for individual tax identification
numbers from the Internal Revenue Service so they can pay taxes.

In 2005, there were between 75,000 and 100,000 illegal immigrants living in
Minnesota, a Pew study found. There were roughly 11.1 million illegal migrants
in the United States. The U.S. census estimated Minnesota's foreign-born
population -- which includes naturalized U.S. citizens, lawful permanent
residents, temporary migrants and refugees -- at 300,000 in 2003.

The Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, D.C., surveyed Mexican citizens in line
for their consular ID cards in seven U.S. cities in 2004 and 2005 and found 53
percent of the applicants said they had no U.S. government-issued ID.

A GROWING MARKET

Minnesota's two biggest banks, Minneapolis-based U.S. Bank and San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo are both big players in the fast-growing market for
Matricula card holders.

Both began accepting Matricula cards in 2001. Since then, more than 750,000
people nationally have opened Wells Fargo accounts using Matricula cards, up
from 400,000 two years ago. Besides Mexico's Matricula Consular, Wells Fargo
accepts similar cards from Guatemala, Argentina and Colombia.

U.S. Bank didn't provide figures on its Matricula accounts. But before the
Mexican consulate opened an office in St. Paul, officials said U.S. Bank opened
more than 600 checking accounts during four days in August 2004 when the
consulate was in town granting Matricula cards to Mexican nationals living in
the area.

Big banks aren't the only ones going after such customers. St. Paul-based
BankCherokee started accepting Matricula cards three or four years ago.

"We consider ourselves players at the community banking level in banking
Latinos," said Bill Patient, compliance and Community Reinvestment Act officer
at BankCherokee. "It's clearly one of our niches."

Representatives from U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo each visit the Mexican consulate
twice a week to provide financial information to visitors. Though bankers can't
open accounts at the consulate or ask people for their contact information, the
people they speak to can contact the banks later to open accounts.

"I think it's been very helpful for our community to have banks doing this job,"
said Wolf, of the consulate. "It's a mutual benefit."

BANKS BENEFIT

Hispanic buying power in the United States will increase 8.1 percent to $863
billion in 2007, according to the Selig Center for Economic Growth at the
University of Georgia's Terry College of Business.

Banks hope to latch onto new immigrants when they first enter the country and
turn them into long-term customers.

"Research says these people are not leaving," said Luis Fitch, principal of Uno,
a Minneapolis advertising agency that specializes in marketing to Hispanics.

Fitch himself is a native of Mexico. "(Immigrants) are hard workers, and they
are spending a lot of money, and they want the same piece of the American dream.
To do that, you need credit."

Patient, of BankCherokee, says he worries about what a bill like Blackburn's,
should it pass, would mean for immigrants.

"It would effectively shut (people) out of the mainstream financial system," he
said. "They will be taken advantage of if they are outside of the system in
terms of the fees (they'll be charged) and their ability to transfer money."

Nicole Garrison-Sprenger can be reached at 651-228-5580 or
ngarrisonsprenger@pioneer press.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday

Feds arrest 49 illegal immigrants in Willmar

BYLINE: BY NANCY YANG Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 147 words


Federal agents arrested 49 illegal immigrants in Willmar last week during a
four-day enforcement investigation there.

Operation Cross Check, which began April 10 and ended Friday, is part of an
ongoing nationwide initiative focused on arresting criminal immigrants.

Of the 49 arrested, 18 had criminal convictions, six were fugitives and 25 were
in violation of U.S. immigration law, a news release from the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement said.

The crimes involved theft, assault, criminal sexual conduct, driving while
intoxicated and distributing a controlled substance, among others.

More than half of those arrested falsely claimed to be U.S. citizens born in
Puerto Rico, ICE said.

Officers also placed detainers on three other suspected illegal immigrants
serving sentences in Willmar. Upon their release, they will be turned over to
ICE and put into deportation proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday

Protest marks immigrant's death

BYLINE: BY JEREMY OLSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 352 words


One year after Maria Inamagua Merchan died from a fall she suffered while
detained at the Ramsey County Jail, 100 protesters returned to the facility to
decry the federal government's treatment of undocumented immigrants.

The group stood in front of the entrance, shouting, "No more raids, no more
raids," and praying for the safety of the undocumented immigrants detained there
after the latest federal roundup last week in Willmar, Minn.

"If this is not the last time, then we're going to be here tomorrow," said
Mariano Espinoza of the Minnesota Immigration Freedom Network. "We're going to
come back, because we're going to stop the raids."

Speakers for the Maria Inamagua Campaign for Justice demanded that Ramsey County
stop allowing the federal government to hold deportees there. Inamagua died
April 13, 2006, after falling at the jail and suffering a coma. Relatives
believe she received inadequate medical attention there for a parasitic
infection that caused her collapse.

Ramsey County officials previously said jail workers took appropriate care of
the woman. The Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security is
reviewing the case.

Willmar resident Rosa Sorto told the crowd on Sunday how immigration officials
broke into her home Friday and seized some young men who had just arrived from
Honduras. She said federal agents cussed at the men and took them away in their
underwear, not allowing them to put on shoes or coats.

Another Willmar resident, Teresa Seiu, came to the demonstration with her
children to express her anger.

"These are people who work incredibly hard," she said. "I've seen it with my own
eyes. They don't come to rob. They don't come to kill. ... They come to work."

Federal officials said many of the people arrested had criminal records but
declined to specify the number. Leaders of Willmar's Hispanic community
estimated 50 to 100 people were detained.

Protesters didn't know the exact number of detainees in the Ramsey County
facility but spoke loudly and blared loud music in hopes those inside could hear
them.

Jeremy Olson can be reached at jolson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 16, 2007 Monday

Willmar, Minn. / Immigration raid nets 49 arrests

BYLINE: BY JOHN BREWER Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 319 words


The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency arrested 49 illegal
immigrants, criminals and immigration fugitives in Willmar last week as part of
Operation Cross Check, according to an ICE statement released Monday.

Of those arrested, 18 had criminal convictions, six were fugitives and 25 were
in violation of U.S. immigration law.

The crimes range from theft, assault and criminal sexual conduct to driving
while intoxicated and distributing a controlled substance.

More than half of those arrested had claimed to be U.S. citizens from Puerto
Rico, the statement said.

Three other suspected illegal immigrants are currently serving sentences in
Willmar and will be turned over to ICE upon their release. One of them is Jazmin
Virgen-Ceja, suspected of criminal vehicular homicide and wrongfully obtaining
more than $8,000 in public assistance in the Willmar area.

Other illegal immigrants arrested include:


     ·    Williams Ruben Ramos-Castillo, 21, a citizen of Honduras. He was
          arrested by ICE officers April 10. He was convicted March 27 of
          fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct; the victim was 15 years old.
          Ramos-Castillo also has convictions for aggravated forgery, tampering
          with a vehicle, driving while impaired and providing a false name to a
          police officer.



     ·    Fabiola Cisneros-Carreno, 31, a citizen of Mexico. She was arrested at
          a residence April 10. Cisneros-Carreno was convicted of
          public-assistance theft in Kandiyohi County District Court in
          December. She was ordered to repay more than $22,000.


The four-day operation began April 10 and ended Friday. It is part of a
nationwide effort to arrest illegal immigrants, the statement said.

Representatives of the Latino community initially said that up to 100 immigrants
had been detained. Centro Legal, a St. Paul-based legal services group,
estimated Friday that the number was closer to 50.

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093 or jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 4, 2007 Friday

Green Bay / Illegal immigrant proposal on hold

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 189 words



A proposal to revoke city licenses of businesses that hire illegal immigrants
drew heated complaints even before the City Council's Advisory Committee took it
up Thursday night.
After a number of speakers denounced it, the panel tabled the proposal at the
urging of council president Paul Fradette, who has called for just such an
ordinance to discourage "illegal aliens from coming to Green Bay in the first
place."
Fradette said the committee will take up the discussion at its next meeting. The
council's Protection Welfare Committee is to consider enforcement issues
regarding the proposal at a meeting Wednesday.
The committee appeared headed for a 4-2 vote to recommend the proposal before
tabling it, despite the generally unfavorable comments from speakers.
"It further damages race relations. ... It'll take a full generation to heal the
wounds," said Matt Hollenbeck, chairman of the Mayor's Hispanic Advisory
Council.
Tom Winske said he has seen the quality of life improve because of those he's
met from Mexico.
"Green Bay has become more diverse now than when I grew up, and it's a lot
better for it," he said.
- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 21, 2007 Monday

25 arrested in Twin Cities in international sex slave bust

BYLINE: BY EMILY GURNON Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Minnesota-Twin Cities; West Metro; News

LENGTH: 821 words



A criminal enterprise that ran a bustling ring of brothels throughout the Twin
Cities forced foreign women into "sex slavery" and handed out business cards at
a casino to lure customers, federal authorities alleged Monday.
During weekend raids, agents arrested 25 people and shut down a "major
prostitution ring" that operated eight brothels in homes in Minneapolis, West
St. Paul, Richfield and Austin, Minn., federal officials said.
Five others were arrested for immigration violations incidental to the
prostitution investigation, and others were taken into custody and released, an
immigration official said.
One of the alleged brothels in Minneapolis was at 2955 Bloomington Ave. S.,
where the arrest of several suspects Saturday got the attention of immigrants
who feared a raid.
But although 18 of the suspects were listed by the U.S. attorney's office as
being illegal immigrants, the community should not fear a wholesale roundup,
said U.S. Attorney Rachel Paulose at a Monday news conference.
"This was absolutely not an immigration raid," Paulose said.
According to the indictment, six women and 19 men were involved in the ring,
whose activities were documented from January 2006 to this month.
The indictment states a 37-year-old illegal immigrant, Marisol Ramirez, served
as the ringleader and confiscated the passports of the women while they worked
at the brothels. Other defendants helped by running a transition house,
operating the brothels themselves, supplying drugs to the brothels, picking up
prostitutes at the airport and delivering condoms.
Others helped by passing out business cards at various locations, including the
Mystic Lake Casino in Prior Lake.
One alleged prostitute was among those indicted. That woman helped promote the
operation and rented an apartment used as a brothel, the indictment said.
Paulose said the women were subjected to harsh treatment. In an example cited in
the indictment, one brothel operator bragged to Ramirez that two of his
prostitutes had serviced 80 men in just one night.
Officials said some of the women were illegal immigrants and some were not. They
said they did not know how many women were forced into prostitution or what
countries or states they came from. They did not identify any prostitutes who
were minors, Paulose said, but "the investigation is ongoing."
Federal officials differed with St. Paul police about the origins of the case.
Nancy Di Perna, an assistant police chief in St. Paul, said at the news
conference that slain Sgt. Gerald Vick planted the seed from which the
investigation grew.
"Sgt. Gerald Vick became aware of a criminal enterprise that brought women from
Central American and Caribbean countries to this area," Di Perna said. "These
women were kept in a demeaning and degrading life, while a few people at the top
of that enterprise became very wealthy."
However, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Tim Counts said
later that ICE led the investigation and developed it independently before other
agencies became involved.
"When we teamed up, it turns out that some information they had was likely the
same information as this," Counts said.
Vick was murdered during an undercover prostitution investigation in May 2005.
A federal grant to the Gerald Vick Human Trafficking Task Force - composed of
investigators from the FBI, ICE, St. Paul and Minneapolis police, Ramsey and
Hennepin county sheriff's offices and others - aided the investigation detailed
Monday.
The arrests at the Bloomington Avenue apartment sparked a protest there
Saturday.
One immigrant advocate said as many as 200 people stopped to watch the bust when
the word got out that immigration agents were in the heavily Latino area.
No one was sure what was happening - and officials weren't saying, said Alondra
Espejel of the Minnesota Immigrant Freedom Network.
Arresting people on criminal charges is one thing, Espejel said. But provoking
fear and chaos is another.
"What I'm worried about is terrorizing an immigrant community on a Saturday
afternoon, when it's family time, when it's down time," she said.
Advocates also decried what they saw as collaboration Saturday by the
Minneapolis police, who by city law must not enforce immigration policy.
Police spokesman Lt. Amelia Huffman said Monday that a handful of Minneapolis
police were on hand Saturday to secure the scene outside while the Minnesota
Bureau of Criminal Apprehension and ICE were serving their warrants inside the
apartment building.
That kind of presence is common when outside law enforcement comes into
Minneapolis on a criminal investigation, Huffman said.
But "we do not independently investigate, we do not detain, we do not arrest,
when immigration violations are the principal issue," she said. "We are
interested in making Minneapolis safe for all residents of the community,
regardless of immigration status."
Emily Gurnon can be reached at egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 25, 2007 Friday

From the right, a surprising volume of criticism aimed at Bush

BYLINE: PAUL MULSHINE

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 789 words



You're probably wondering what that Z stands for in those "Z-visas" that would
be given to illegal aliens under the immigration bill now under consideration.
I don't know, but I suspect it stands for "zero." That's how low President
Bush's popularity rating will fall if he gets his wish and this bill becomes
law.
Imagine an Oval Office ceremony with Teddy Kennedy smiling over the president's
shoulder as Bush signs into law a bill that gives asylum to 10 million or 12
million people now living in the country illegally. At that moment, even the
most somnolent of the red-state rubes will awaken to the reality that George W.
Bush is "a committed globalist."
That description comes from Phyllis Schlafly, who comes from a red state but is
certainly no rube. The 82-year-old Schlafly is perhaps the most eloquent
expositor of conservatism in the heartland. She first came to fame in the early
1970s by leading a successful effort to defeat the Equal Rights Amendment. Now
her Eagle Forum is targeting Bush's effort to create a North American Union, a
border-free zone that would run from Guatemala to the North Pole.
The immigration amnesty is just part of a plan that includes construction of a
10-lane toll road for trucks that would run from the Texas border to the newly
created "port" of Kansas City in Schlafly's home state of Missouri. That may
sound nutty, but it's all well-documented on Schlafly's Web site, www.eagle
forum.org.
Of Bush, she says, "he really believes in the new world order. I think he's
perfectly willing to let the conservative movement and the Republican Party go
down the drain."
It certainly looks that way. The 1986 amnesty - which the Republicans of that
era at least had the honesty to call an amnesty - was the main factor in turning
California from a red state to a blue state. Schlafly recalls that Orange
County, just south of Los Angeles, was "the birthplace of the conservative
movement" that orchestrated the presidential campaigns of Barry Goldwater and
later Ronald Reagan.
"Orange County was a rock-solid nest of conservatism," Schlafly says. But it now
sends liberal Democrats to Congress thanks to an influx of immigrants. The same
will happen all over America if this bill goes through, she predicts.
Schlafly's observation that Bush is a one-world internationalist is accurate, of
course. But I would go a bit further. It is my assessment that George W. is, if
I may put it in psychological terms, off his rocker.
I first came to that conclusion on Jan. 7, 2004, when Bush made his first major
speech on immigration. Like most Republicans, I had till that point assumed
that, whatever his flaws, Bush was at least sane. But then he got up and said
this: "America must control its borders. Following the attacks of September the
11th, 2001, this duty of the federal government has become even more urgent. And
we're fulfilling that duty."
At least 2 million people had entered the country illegally between Sept. 11 and
that speech. Since the speech, at least 2 million more have done so.
Bush then went on to proclaim that virtually everyone on Earth should be able to
compete for American jobs "when no Americans can be found to fill the jobs,"
i.e., when the employer doesn't feel like paying what the market will bear for
labor. At this point, Bush had a gleam in his eye that to me at least connoted
that he was simply not all there.
His Iraq war policy is also evidence of that unpleasant fact, and conservatives
are finally becoming aware of that as well. That was demonstrated by the
overwhelming support for libertarian Ron Paul over neocon Rudy Giuliani in that
dust-up over foreign policy earlier this month. Conservatives are returning to
the noninterventionist tradition of the GOP and rejecting Bush's policy of
endless war.
Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies told me he believes that
resentment over the bungling of the war is partly fueling the wave of outrage
over the immigration bill.
"I was a little surprised at the intensity of the outrage on the right," said
Krikorian, a longtime critic of the Bush amnesty plan. "The opposition is much
more intense and widespread than I expected, and I expect that part of the
reason is that this is a way for conservatives upset with Iraq to vent their
frustration without seeming to side with the Democrats and Michael Moore."
As Schlafly notes, Bush is doing his best to destroy the GOP. This immigration
bill is his master stroke. If we had a parliamentary system, Republicans would
have removed him long ago. They can't do that, but at least they can limit the
damage he can do between now and Jan. 20, 2009.
Paul Mulshine is a columnist for the Star-Ledger of Newark, N.J. He can be
contacted at pmulshine@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday

Minnesota / 19 arrested in latest raids at Swift plants

BYLINE: BY JOHN BREWER Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 400 words


U.S. immigration officials arrested 19 Swift & Co. employees at five sites
across the country Tuesday as part of an ongoing investigation into identity
theft, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman said.

The arrests included two people at Swift's pork processing plant in Worthington,
Minn., for alleged immigration violations, said Tim Counts, an ICE spokesman.

Tuesday's arrests are the second roundup of Swift employees since December, when
authorities detained 1,297 employees at six Swift meat-processing plants. In the
earlier raid, 230 people were detained in Worthington.

Both Swift and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents
employees of the company, said Tuesday's visits by ICE were handled better than
those in December.

"In this case it was more focused, more targeted. We were looking for specific
individuals," Counts said.

Seventeen of the latest arrests were on charges of identity theft and
immigration violations. Two arrests in Marshalltown, Iowa - where Swift has a
pork processing plant - were for harboring illegal aliens, Counts said.

Counts said that most of the detainees were still in custody, though he could
not say exactly where they were being held.

Since December, 274 of the initial 1,297 detainees have been charged with
criminal offenses, including identity theft, re-entry into the country after
deportation and misuse of a Social Security number. The remainder have begun the
process of being deported, Counts said. The removal process can take anywhere
from days to months to years, he added.

"Remember, virtually every one of the 1,297 had assumed the identity of a U.S.
citizen," he said.

Sean McHugh, a Swift spokesman, said the December raid cost the company $53
million but that operations returned to normal levels in March. The Greeley,
Colo.-based company was not informed ahead of the raids Tuesday and was not told
whether to expect future raids.

The six plants affected by Tuesday's operation are the pork processing plants in
Worthington and Marshalltown and beef processing plants in Cactus, Texas; Grand
Island, Neb.; Greeley, Colo.; and Hyrum, Utah.

Counts said the immigration investigation is ongoing but did not say whether
further arrests were planned.

UFCW Local 1161, which represents Swift workers in Worthington, did not return
calls seeking comment.

John Brewer can be reached at jbrewer@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2093.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 24, 2007 Tuesday

Elkhorn / Man pleads guilty in ID theft case

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 137 words


The owner of a Whitewater company where immigration officials staged a raid a
year ago, arresting 25 suspected illegal immigrants, has pleaded guilty to five
counts of conspiracy to commit identity theft.

Allen L. Petrie, 48, who owns Star Packaging, was accused of knowingly hiring
illegal immigrants and keeping them on the job despite being informed by police
that they had stolen or fake identities.

Walworth County Circuit Judge Robert Kennedy asked Petrie at his sentencing
Monday why he decided to plead guilty.

"Because I've committed a crime, sir," Petrie responded.

Petrie declined to comment afterward, but defense lawyer Stephen Glynn said
accepting the plea was a family decision. Petrie will be sentenced Oct. 15.

State prosecutors said they would recommend no more than six months in county
jail.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday

Law aimed at immigrants tossed Pennsylvania town's mayor expects to appeal

BYLINE: BY MARIO F. CATTABIANI and AMY WORDEN Philadelphia Inquirer

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 485 words


HAZLETON, Pa. - In a ruling with national implications, a federal judge Thursday
struck down a controversial year-old ordinance in Hazleton designed to crack
down on illegal immigrants in this northeastern Pennsylvania city.

In a 206-page ruling, U.S. District Judge James Munley found Hazleton's
ordinance, which would have penalized city businesses that hire illegal
immigrants and landlords who rent to them, was unconstitutional because the
federal government alone can craft and enforce immigration policies.

"The genius of our Constitution is it provides rights even to those who evoke
the least sympathy from the general public. In that way, all in this nation can
be confident of equal justice under its laws," Munley wrote. "Hazleton, in its
zeal to control the presence of a group deemed undesirable, violated the rights
of such people, as well as others within the community."

City officials, led by the outspoken and popular mayor, Lou Barletta, argued the
ordinance was needed to curb the influx of illegal immigrants, whom they blame
for Hazleton's growing crime problem.

Barletta said that, although he had not read the whole ruling, he anticipated an
appeal.

"Both sides knew this would not be the last day. Both sides pledged to go the
distance," he said. "As Abraham Lincoln once said, this "is a slip and not a
fall.' "

The American Civil Liberties Union, on behalf of 11 plaintiffs, including four
undocumented aliens who went by aliases, challenged the ordinance in federal
court, insisting Hazleton city officials were using the Hispanic community as
scapegoats for social ills.

"This decision should be a blaring stoplight for local officials thinking of
copying Hazleton's misguided and unconstitutional law," said Witold Walczak, a
lawyer for the ACLU who is representing the plaintiffs.

Hazleton, a struggling former coal-mining town of 30,000, delayed enforcement of
the ordinance pending its legal challenge.

Peter Spiro, a law professor at Temple University's Beasley School of Law,
called the decision a "knockout for the plaintiffs."

Even so, Spiro said it would not surprise him if an appeals court modified or
even reversed the ruling.

"A lot of this is uncharted territory," he said. "In the context of failed
immigration reform, an appeals court might be more amenable to upholding this
sort of local law than the district court was."

The Hazleton ordinance became a flashpoint in a growing debate over the nation's
ability to curb illegal immigrants. Thursday's ruling was anticipated by those
on both sides of the bitter divide, as well as by towns and cities across the
nation that had followed Hazleton's lead and crafted similar local laws.

Spiro said the ruling would not have any direct bearing on such laws outside the
district court's jurisdiction in Pennsylvania. But he said it could embolden
challenges to other ordinances because it provides a template for rulings
elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

Backlash grows against illegal immigration

BYLINE: BY DAVE MONTGOMERY McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 803 words


The intense rhetoric is generating fears of an emerging dark side, evident in
growing discrimination against Hispanics.

WASHINGTON - Seven weeks after the collapse of legislation in Congress, the
outcry against illegal immigration is louder than ever, manifested by proposed
clampdowns at the state and local level and an uproar over the arrest of an
undocumented immigrant in the execution-style slayings of three New Jersey
college students.

Scores of organizations, ranging from mainstream to fringe groups, are
marshalling forces in what former House Speaker Newt Gingrich calls "a war here
at home" against illegal immigration, which he says is as important as America's
conflicts being fought overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"Far more Americans are being killed by violent, evil people here in America
than in our official military 'combat zones' overseas," he wrote in the National
Review.

While most of the groups register legitimate, widespread concerns about the
impact of illegal immigration on jobs, social services and national security,
the intense rhetoric is generating fears of an emerging dark side, evident in
growing discrimination against Hispanics and a surge of xenophobia unseen since
the last big wave of immigration in the early 20th century.

"I don't think there's been a time like this in our lifetime," said Doris
Meissner, a senior fellow with the Migration Policy Institute and former
commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. "Even though
immigration is always unsettling and somewhat controversial, we haven't had this
kind of intensity and widespread, deep-seated anger for almost 100 years."

The Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors hate groups, said
the number of "nativist extremist" organizations advocating against illegal
immigration has grown from virtually zero just over five years ago to 144,
including nine classified as hate groups.

Some senators who participated in the mid-summer debate over President Bush's
failed immigration bill said they were barraged with some of the most venomous
mail of their congressional careers. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who supported
the bill legalizing undocumented immigrants, said he has received death threats
because of his position.

"It is unbelievable how this has inflamed the American people," McCain said in
an Aug. 16 speech at the Aspen Institute in Colorado.

Eighty-three percent of immigrants from Mexico and 79 percent of immigrants from
Central America believe there is growing discrimination against Latin American
immigrants in the United States, according to a poll conducted by the
Miami-based Bendixen & Associates.

Instead of taking a downturn after the collapse of Bush's immigration overhaul
in June, the debate over illegal immigration has continued and seemingly
escalated. As prospects for congressional action appeared increasingly in doubt
this year, all 50 states and more than 75 towns and cities considered - and in
many cases enacted - immigration restrictions, even though initial court rulings
have declared such actions unconstitutional intrusions on federal
responsibilities.

The murders of three college students in Newark - and the wounding of a fourth -
reignited calls for a clampdown on illegal immigration after disclosures that
one of the suspects, Jose Lachira Carranza, was an illegal immigrant from Peru
who was out on bail awaiting trial on assault and child rape charges.

Some critics have said local law enforcement officials should check the
immigration status of people they arrest and then report those who are here
illegally to the federal authorities.

"It frustrates me that if someone comes here illegally, if they commit a crime,
we don't throw them out of the country," Republican presidential candidate
Rudolph Giuliani says in a current radio advertisement.

The question has become a flashpoint for municipal officials who are grappling
with immigration. Some of them say routine immigration checks are among the few
tools they have to deal with what is largely a federal issue. Others herald
their cities as immigrant sanctuaries.

The mayor of Newark, Cory Booker, has tried to keep the public discussion
focused on his main goal: reducing the crime rate. He said he was frustrated
that Carranza had been freed, and he has tried to steer the debate away from
immigration, saying that he did not care about Carranza's status.

"My Police Department does not play an INS function," Booker said. "We are not
to be running around doing interrogations about whether someone is documented or
not."

But since the shootings, Ronald Rice, a council member who is allied with
Booker, has proposed an ordinance that would require the police to contact
federal authorities about illegal immigrants in custody.

This report includes information from the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 25, 2007 Tuesday

Minnesota / Immigration roundup targets gangs

BYLINE: BY JOHN BREWER Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Crime and Court Stories

LENGTH: 483 words


A weeklong roundup of illegal immigrants - all with alleged ties to street gangs
- netted 34 people in Minnesota, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency announced Tuesday.

The majority of the arrests were in St. Paul, drawing members from the Sureno-13
and Vatos Locos gangs, said Claude Arnold, special agent in charge of
investigations out of ICE's Bloomington office.

The local action, part of the national "Operation Community Shield," targeted
transnational street gang members since Sept. 17 and wrapped up Monday.

"There's obviously a gang problem here. The good thing about this area is it's
not like an L.A. or a Phoenix, where it's kind of like a finger in the dike,"
Arnold said. "I think there is real hope in preventing the gang problem from
getting out of control in this area."

Arnold said transnational gangs emulate domestic street gangs - from
street-level drug dealing to drive-by shootings - but differ in having
strongholds in foreign countries and will take on cross-border crimes like
smuggling drugs, humans and weapons.

ICE teamed with local law enforcement, including the Metro Gang Strike Force and
Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, to identify targets and make the
arrests.

The alleged gang members come from Mexico, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Somalia
and were apprehended across the metro and in the communities of Albany, Willmar
and Worthington.

Five were arrested on state criminal charges, nine on federal charges for
illegally re-entering the country after deportation, and 20 exclusively for
removal proceedings.

Most of the men belonged to the Sureno-13 and Vatos Locos gangs, but some came
from the Rough Tough Somali Crips and the Mexican Mafia.

Gang members picked up during the local operation have been convicted in the
past on charges of criminal sexual conduct, assault with a dangerous weapon,
robbery, drug crimes, burglary, drunken driving and firearms violations,
according to ICE. Five guns were seized.

Every person arrested will eventually face deportation, Arnold said.

Arnold said Operation Community Shield was started in early 2005 to combat an
uptick in transnational gang activity. The main focus was on Mara Salvatrucha,
or MS-13, a violent gang that grew out of the Salvadoran refugee population in
Los Angeles during the mid-1990s.

"Despite the fact that crime was going down in the United States at that time,
they were growing," Arnold said of transnational gangs.

Since the national operation's start two years ago, more than 100 arrests have
been made in Minnesota, according to ICE statistics. Nationally, more than 6,500
members from more than 500 gangs have been arrested.

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093 or at jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

'Operation Community Shield'

-- Targets U.S. street gangs with international ties

-- Started in February 2005

-- More than 100 arrests in Minnesota

-- More than 6,500 arrests nationally

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday

Whitewater / Owner gets jail time in immigration raid

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 117 words


A former Whitewater business owner accused of employing illegal immigrants was
sentenced to 90 days in jail for conspiracy to commit identity theft.

Allen L. Petrie, 48, who owned Star Packaging, hired people he knew were illegal
immigrants and had them change their names or Social Security numbers. He
pleaded guilty in July to five counts of conspiracy to commit identity theft.

His firm was raided in August 2006, leading to the arrest of Petrie and 25
Hispanic employees suspected of living in the U.S. illegally.

Diane Donohoo, assistant district attorney for Walworth County, said Petrie's
records indicate he might have known since the mid-1990s that some employees
were illegal.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday

News from the presidential campaign last week Thompson goes for grass-roots

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Politics

LENGTH: 953 words


WASHINGTON - Former Tennessee Sen. Fred Thompson seized what may be the hottest
issue in the Republican presidential race last week, proposing a tough plan to
curb illegal immigration.

No other issue motivates grass-roots Republicans more, GOP consultants say.

Thompson's first principle: "No amnesty." That's a shot at his rival Sen. John
McCain, who's long championed a comprehensive plan that would put some 12
million illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship. Opponents denounce McCain's
plan as "amnesty."

Other Thompson-plan highlights: Double immigration and customs enforcement
agents, boost the Border Patrol to at least 25,000, strengthen border
enforcement, prosecute illegal workers and their employers, make English the
official language.

He also called for stripping federal money from cities and states that refuse to
report illegal immigrants to authorities - and criticized former New York Mayor
Rudy Giuliani and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney for supporting
"sanctuary cities."

Giuliani fired back Thursday, vowing to stop illegal immigration in three years,
largely with tough border enforcement. But his plan is less ambitious than
Thompson's.

Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado has been even sharper in denouncing illegal
immigration, but he's getting no traction while Thompson's running second in
most national polls. For a candidate whom critics dismissed as lacking fire in
the belly, Thompson showed some steam on this one, for his zeal in seizing the
issue and his pointed shots at his rivals.Baseball fever

In the weeks after Sept. 11, Giuliani was nowhere more visible than at Yankee
Stadium, cheering the Bronx Bombers in October playoffs. But the Yankees didn't
make the World Series this year. So guess who he's rooting for? The Yankees'
archenemies, the hated Boston Red Sox! He says he always backs the American
League team, unless the New York Mets represent the National League. He didn't
mention that first-primary state New Hampshire, like the rest of New England, is
a proud part of "Red Sox Nation." This may help him in New England, but not in
New York. The tabloid New York Daily News' judgment: "Traitor."No comment

Meanwhile, Thompson allowed that he's pulling for the Colorado Rockies. One
reason is "they'll be an underdog; I kind of like that." Also, star first
baseman Todd Helton is "an old Tennessee boy."

However, when he was asked who he likes in Saturday's Tennessee-South Carolina
football game, Tennessean Thompson - wooing voters in South Carolina - cut off
questions. "OK, I think we're out of time."Together on Iran?

Who'd a thunk it? President Bush imposed sanctions Thursday on Iran, and Sens.
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama both applauded. Remarkable, considering that
Obama's been faulting Clinton's vote for a Senate resolution that dubbed an
Iranian military wing "terrorist."

He said that gave Bush a green light to strike later. She said no, it just upped
the diplomatic ante. Both said Bush did right Thursday.

"It is important to have tough sanctions on Iran," Obama said, "but these
sanctions must not be linked ... to take military action against Iran." Clinton
said the new sanctions "strengthen America's diplomatic hand."Making nice

Elizabeth Edwards, Cindy McCain, Michelle Obama, Ann Romney and Jeri Kehn
Thompson make for an unusual women's club, but the five spouses of presidential
candidates sat together for a one-hour forum Tuesday to discuss life on the
campaign trail. (Bill Clinton didn't show.)

The women played down their own roles and complained about the toll that
campaigns take on family life.

They got along amazingly well, considering that their husbands are partisan and
ideological rivals, and each wants to deny the others' dreams.

Edwards defined the bottom line: It's the candidates that matter, not the
spouses.

"He's the person who has to make the final sale. This is a likable group of
women, but it honestly doesn't matter," she said.No good news

A Bloomberg/Los Angeles Times poll showed Clinton expanding her national lead
over Obama to 48-17 percent. Meanwhile, a Gallup poll found that talk-show
billionaire Oprah Winfrey's endorsement of Obama gave him no boost. The Illinois
senator ramped up his advertising in Iowa, where he remains competitive, and
rallied in Boston with Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, who's endorsed him. But
a series of gospel concerts aimed at black supporters in the early primary state
of South Carolina became a political hot potato for Obama after gay rights
activists criticized his decision to include the Rev. Donnie McClurkin. The
once-gay performer has preached that homosexuality is a curse that can be cured.
Obama issued a statement saying he supports gay rights, but he kept McClurkin on
his gospel tour, angering gays.New Hampshire poll

St. Anselm College's Institute of Politics on Thursday revealed its poll results
for New Hampshire, which will hold the first primary vote. It found:

Republicans: Romney 32.4 percent; Giuliani 21.8 percent; McCain 15.2 percent;
Rep. Ron Paul 7.4 percent.

Democrats: Clinton 42.6 percent; Obama 21.5 percent; former Sen. John Edwards
13.9 percent.

Conducted Oct. 15 through last Sunday. Error margins: 4.1 percentage points for
Democrats, 4.5 for Republicans.Big leads

New Los Angeles Times/ Bloomberg national poll:

Republicans: Giuliani 32 percent; Thompson 15; McCain 13; Romney 11; former
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee 7.

Democrats: Clinton 48 percent; Obama 17; Edwards 13; New Mexico Gov. Bill
Richardson 2.

Poll taken Oct. 19 through last Monday. Error margin: 3 percentage points.

Note: National polls mean little at this stage. Once voting begins, results can
scramble fast.Democrats' debate

Coming this week: Democrats debate Tuesday in Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 13, 2007 Tuesday

Romney: Opponents soft on illegals

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 573 words


SIOUX CITY, Iowa - Republican presidential contender Mitt Romney likened GOP
rivals Rudy Giuliani and Mike Huckabee to Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton in
supporting tuition breaks and broader sanctuary for illegal immigrants or their
children. "There are those people in both parties who are in a sanctuary state
of mind, who believe in sanctuary cities, who believe in policies which are
sanctuary in nature," the former Massachusetts governor said Tuesday. In
appearances and advertisements in Iowa and elsewhere, Romney increasingly uses
illegal immigration to differentiate himself from the rest of his rivals.
Edwards ups ante on family leave

LEBANON, N.H. - When it comes to helping parents take time off from work,
Democratic presidential hopeful John Edwards is raising the stakes. The former
North Carolina senator on Tuesday proposed spending $2 billion a year to help
states create family leave programs that offer workers at least eight weeks of
paid time off to care for a newborn or ill family member. The proposal is
similar to those offered by his rivals, but Edwards would put up more money -
New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton's plan calls for $1 billion a year;
Illinois Sen. Barack Obama proposes $1.5 billion. "It's really important for
parents, for families, to be able to take this leave, to be able to do it and
not lose their income, which is a huge drain on millions of families in this
country," Edwards said at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon.Two
GOPers would tie defense, GDP

WASHINGTON - Republican presidential candidates Fred Thompson and Mitt Romney
want to boost defense spending sharply, tying increases to the size of the
nation's economy, but analysts argued Tuesday such a link makes little sense.
Thompson would increase defense spending to 4.5 percent of the gross domestic
product; Romney would seek defense spending at 4 percent of the GDP. Currently,
defense spending equals 4.2 percent of the GDP, according to the Office of
Management and Budget. Defense spending currently isn't tied to the GDP;
Congress writes the budget annually, and the president signs it into law.
Linking the Pentagon budget to a GDP-based formula has a number of flaws, said
Chris Hellman, a military policy fellow at the Center for Arms Control and
Non-Proliferation, a Washington research group. "Are you going to continue to
tie spending to GDP if the economy tanked?" he asked. A shrinking GDP - the
value of the nation's goods and services - then would force cuts in the Pentagon
budget.Obama questions Clinton's trade stance

DUBUQUE, Iowa - Hillary Rodham Clinton's doubts about big foreign trade deals
came only in the heat of the presidential campaign, Democratic rival Barack
Obama said Tuesday, addressing labor leaders who strongly oppose many of the
agreements. He focused in particular on the North American Free Trade Agreement,
which many U.S. unions contend has sent American jobs outside the nation's
borders and held down wages. "So, when a candidate rails against NAFTA today,
it's fair to ask her where she was with NAFTA 20 years ago," said Obama. "You
don't suddenly wake up and say NAFTA is a terrible thing when you were for it
before." Obama made his case at a regional convention of the United Auto Workers
a day after Clinton used the same forum to call for a "time out" on new trade
deals while their impact on American jobs is assessed.

- Associated Press, McClatchy Newspapers

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday

Where do Democrats stand on illegal immigration?

BYLINE: BY DAVID LIGHTMAN McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 578 words


WASHINGTON - Democratic presidential candidates are likely to sound similar
tonight at their Las Vegas debate when they discuss illegal immigration - if
they talk much about it at all.

They all pretty much call for tougher border enforcement and providing a path to
citizenship, but they've been downplaying the issue for months, even though it's
one of the hottest controversies in the land.

Democratic analysts say that's a smart strategy. Republicans counter that
Democrats are afraid of the issue, which could split the party's liberal wing
and Hispanics from its blue-collar supporters.

Independent analysts aren't sure who's right.

"People are torn. They know they need immigrants (to make the economy hum), but
many also fear the browning of America," said Ken Fernandez, an assistant
professor of political science at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.

The major Democratic contenders' debate - on CNN at 7 p.m. CST - takes place in
a crucial early-voting caucus state where undocumented workers are a major
concern. Yet Democratic campaigns aren't jumping at the chance to highlight
immigration. They're more eager to emphasize issues that they think are higher
on their voters' agendas, notably health care, education, the war on terrorism
and the economy.

Democratic campaigns also are calculating that once the party nominations are
decided, probably early next year, their party's detailed, comprehensive
approaches to giving undocumented aliens a path to citizenship will look good
next to Republicans' demands simply to get ultra-tough with anyone who's in the
country illegally.

"Republicans should be terrified," said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New
Democrat Network. "The positions most of their candidates are taking now will
make it very difficult for them to win the presidency."

Republicans counter that it's Democrats who should be frightened.

"Look at how all the Republicans, except for John McCain, are talking tough.
That's because they've been on the trail and are talking to folks," said Alan
Moore, press secretary for Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., whose White House bid is
built around his get-tough-with-immigrants proposals.

Democrats are making two political calculations on immigration.

One is that their comprehensive, arguably more tolerant approach will help woo
Hispanic voters, who could make up an estimated 10 percent of next year's
electorate. President Bush, a former Texas governor, appealed not only to
regional pride but also to Hispanics' deep desire for education restructuring,
and won about 40 percent of the Latino vote in 2004.

Democrats think the GOP will be fortunate to get half that next year, not only
because polls show that much of the Hispanic community is disillusioned with
Bush but also because the tough Republican immigration talk is often seen as
anti-Hispanic, said Maria Echaveste, a senior adviser to Democratic candidate
Hillary Rodham Clinton.

The other calculation by Democrats is that bringing up immigration can only hurt
them at the moment, because it isn't easy to explain comprehensive action during
a quick-answer debate.

Republicans could be right: When people think about immigration, most now want
an iron fist, not talking points. In Ohio, for instance, a Nov. 6-11 Quinnipiac
University poll found strong majorities favor building a fence along the
U.S.-Mexico border, creating national ID cards for all legal residents and
refusing driver's licenses and free public education to illegal aliens.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday

Republican Tancredo expected to quit '08 race

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 226 words


DENVER - Republican Rep. Tom Tancredo, whose forceful opposition to illegal
immigration vaulted him to national prominence, plans to announce he is
abandoning his long-shot bid for the presidency, a person close to Tancredo said
Wednesday.

The five-term Colorado congressman planned to make the announcement at a news
conference in Des Moines, Iowa, today, the person said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because they were not authorized to speak for Tancredo.

Tancredo's campaign would only say he planned a "major announcement" today.

Tancredo has consistently polled at the back of the nine-person GOP field. He
has based his campaign on opposition to illegal immigration, a top issue in many
areas of the country. He has run television ads that link lax border security to
terrorist attacks, rape and other crimes.

Tancredo announced in October that he would not seek a sixth term in Congress,
but hinted he would consider running for the Senate after his presidential bid.
Colorado will have an open Senate seat next year when Republican Wayne Allard
retires.

Fears about illegal immigration boosted Tancredo's profile, but it didn't
translate into support as reflected by his low standing in polls and his limited
fundraising. In part, candidates such as Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani usurped
Tancredo's hard-line stance on the issue.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 7, 2008 Monday

Behind the politics, real problems to address

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: PP EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 619 words


For the second straight election-cycle January, Gov. Tim Pawlenty has proposed a
series of get-tough measures on illegal immigration. Two years ago, when he
faced a re-election battle, and again on Monday, the beginning of another big
election year, the governor has turned his attention to "sanctuary" ordinances,
hiring practices, forgery, identity theft and other issues related to the mass
movement of illegal workers from Mexico and Central America into the U.S.

The fact that this has proven to be a fruitful political issue for Republicans
like Pawlenty does not mean he is wrong. Porous borders, widespread use of fake
documents, industries built on low-skilled, low-wage (by U.S. standards) workers
and enabling federal policies have produced an underground economy that defies
the idea that we are a nation of laws. Pawlenty was right when he said Monday
the result is "the rule of law is diminished.''

Whether anyone besides Lou Dobbs really wants to do anything about it - well, we
have our doubts.

A 2005 survey by the Pew Hispanic Center estimated there were then 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S., and put Minnesota in the category of states
with 55,000 to 85,000 illegal immigrants. Those numbers are likely higher now.
Workers have flocked to the landscaping, roofing and food-processing industries,
among others.

We have sided with President Bush, Republican presidential candidate Sen. John
McCain and many Democratic leaders in seeking a "comprehensive" solution. That
generally means tougher border enforcement along with a "path to citizenship"
for those who came here illegally and are working and otherwise law-abiding.
That policy is a nonstarter for anti-immigration groups, and the comprehensive
bill went down in flames last year.

Pawlenty's plan focuses on enforcement at the state level. It includes these
measures that would need legislative approval:

? Prohibiting cities from adopting "sanctuary" laws that keep local police from
inquiring about immigration status.

? Stronger penalties for employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants,
including possible revocation of state business licenses.

? Increased penalties for using someone else's Social Security number or
driver's license to commit fraud, and increased penalties for those who forge
documents that can be used to verify employment status.

? Strengthening laws against human trafficking.

His plan also includes several measures that he can enact by executive action,
including:

? Requiring new state employees, contractors doing business with the state and
businesses receiving state incentives to use an electronic verification system
to ensure that workers are legally eligible to work.

? Having state law-enforcement and regulatory officials work with federal
immigration officials in such areas as narcotics smuggling, money laundering,
document fraud, disrupting violent multinational gangs and identifying child
predators.

Many of these proposals were offered and rejected two years ago. Senate Majority
Leader Larry Pogemiller, DFL-Minneapolis, called them "warmed-over.'' We have
sided with police chiefs who believe "sanctuary" laws make the best of a bad
situation by encouraging crime victims and witnesses to cooperate rather than
run away in fear. But Pawlenty's package rightly focuses on serious criminal
wrongdoing rather than the mere act of being in Minnesota illegally.

We challenge Democrats to acknowledge the problems Pawlenty is addressing and
come up with their own solutions. Ignoring the wrecked system is as bad as using
it for political purposes. We need a big federal fix to be sure. But until that
happens, Minnesota can take steps toward restoring that rule of law we profess
to believe in.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 9, 2008 Wednesday

Security is a priority

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 921 words


I want to congratulate Gov. Tim Pawlenty for signing two executive orders that
will strengthen the efforts against illegal immigration. Regardless of our
heritage, European, Somali, Chinese, African, Middle Eastern or Mexican, we are
all Americans. As Americans, the security of our borders and the security of our
economy must be a priority.

So called "sanctuary cities" are not protecting the security interests of
Minnesota or the United States. Pawlenty's executive orders will help protect
all legal residents from harassment and will help protect others from
exploitation. I am encouraged by House Minority Leader Marty Seifert's support
for Pawlenty's leadership.

It is estimated that 12 million people have entered the country illegally. We
agree that 90 percent of the illegal entries are working people looking for
economic advancement. There is no justification or rationalization that can
justify elected officials turning a blind eye to a serious problem.

JOE REMLEY

White Bear Lake

Lead constructively, Governor

I read with interest the editorial and responses to Gov. Tim Pawlenty's
anti-immigrant rhetoric ("Behind the politics, real problems to address," Jan.
8).

If Pawlenty is attempting to build a base for federal office, I have a
suggestion for him: "Think outside the box." It is easy to be anti-immigrant,
but why not propose a constructive solution?

Pawlenty could provide a useful service to our community and build his own
national profile by advancing a humane, realistic program that would make it
possible for immigrants to have a workable track to citizenship while supporting
the business community with the stable labor force it needs.

I recommend that Pawlenty champion and lead a proposal based on moral and
ethical principles so people of color are not demonized while businesses take
advantage of people who just want to feed, house and clothe their families like
those of us who had the privilege of being born in this country.

MYRNA NELSON

St. Paul

Seeking

the truth

John McCain claims he won the New Hampshire primary because he told citizens the
truth. He is right. People seek the truth. But where do we find it? We were told
we invaded Iraq because it had weapons of mass destruction. The truth was there
were none. We were told the war would cost $30 billion and last a short time.
The truth is it will cost more than $1.5 trillion and there is no end in sight.

We were told that Americans had the highest level of home ownership in history.
The truth is that predatory lenders deceived millions of Americans; people are
losing their homes and our economy is in trouble. We were told we didn't need to
raise taxes for roads and bridges. The truth is bridges are collapsing.

We seek the truth, Sen. McCain. It's just harder to find these days.

ROBERT SHUMER

Eagan

Over the top

After digesting Ron Carey's "endorsement" of Mike Huckabee, I still had a nasty
taste in my mouth ("State GOP chair throws support behind Huckabee," Jan. 8).
Carey stepped so far over the line that he should leave the party and the state.
The party is to choose its candidate, not the leadership. To endorse an
ultra-liberal former Baptist minister who makes policy positions based on gross
misinterpretations of Bible Scripture is "over the top." Yet, RINO Ron Carey
thinks he's tops.

I don't understand how Republican Party leaders and candidates can even claim
party affiliation when they refuse to support the grass-roots-built party
platform. The policy positions adopted by the party are fiscally and
constitutionally responsible and reflect the values that have made this country
the darling of all the world's populace. Changes that Huckabee proposes and
Carey endorses through him spell destruction for the "Great Experiment" that
worked.

JOHN CARLSON

Woodbury

Smoke-free air works

I read with great frustration that the 301 Club believes smoke-free air is
driving away people seeking sobriety ("Smoking ban 'killing our club,' " Jan.
4).

I have been working my recovery for many years. Much of that time I had to put
up with other people's smoke. As I was trying to get and stay well, others were
making me sick. I have a special passion on this issue. Both of my parents died
of tobacco-caused disease. I also know more alcoholics die from tobacco-caused
disease than die from their alcohol use. Eighty percent of our population do not
smoke; I find it unacceptable that the majority is not respected enough to be
heard.

Drug-free is just that. Tobacco is a drug. If people working their program can't
step outside for a heater, smoke-free air is not their only problem.

For me, smoke-free air works, and so does AA.

SCOTT LEDOUX

Andover

Before the fall

A friend gave us tickets to "Avenue Q," a Broadway musical showing at the State
Theatre. I don't think they knew much about this play when they bought the
tickets. We attended a performance Friday night. I overheard one older
theatergoer describe the play as "Muppets on Crack" as we left the theater. I
had to agree; however, I think the writers and producers had to be using it,
also.

It is a plotless play about Muppets who perform graphic sexual acts and sing
memorable songs like "The Internet is for Porn." The actors were mediocre, and
so was their singing. But what astounded me most about this event was the
audience - mostly people under age 40 - giving the cast a standing ovation. I
have never witnessed such a celebration of perversity and a lack of values. What
is happening to our culture? Wasn't this how life was in Rome before the fall?

MARY RASSMUSSEN

Farmington

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 25, 2008 Friday

A better way to address immigration problems

BYLINE: BY HECTOR GARCIA

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 1036 words


Undocumented immigrants in the U.S. increased to an estimated 14 million in 2007
from 4 million in 1993 - the year before the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) was initiated. This growth is in stark contrast to former Attorney
General Janet Reno's prediction that NAFTA would reduce illegal migration into
the U.S. by two-thirds in six years and eventually eliminate it.

Americans are angered by this violation of the law and fear its impact on state
budgets and national security. This perspective, though real, is circumscribed
by a national context that excludes the source of the migration; thus, it is
insufficiently informed, can only address local symptoms, and will not eradicate
the problem. A globalized mindset is the essential first step to effectively
reduce undocumented immigration and other side effects of globalization. The
necessary information, strategies and solutions will then become clear.

Instead of presenting a globalized scenario, the U.S. government has responded
to the public's fear by recommending ineffectual and costly Band-Aids. One of
them - arresting and deporting 14 million individuals working in the U.S. -
presents daunting logistical and cost challenges; the consequences to the U.S.
economy would create problems of similar magnitude. A recent article in the Wall
Street Journal estimated that 70 percent of the U.S. workforce in agriculture is
represented by undocumented workers.

The suggestion of amnesty disregards the fact that, in 1986, it failed to stem
the flow of undocumented immigrants. The offer of U.S. citizenship appeals
mostly to well intentioned advocates; it is not necessarily the goal pursued by
the immigrants themselves. Lastly, the militarized Mexico Wall along the
2,000-mile border, now being erected, will not stop them. Its construction has
actually forced the undocumented immigrants who are already here to stop
returning home on a regular basis as many used to do, multiplying their numbers
instead of reducing them. All of these measures would leave the roots of the
problem untouched.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimated that 57 percent of undocumented immigrants
come from Mexico and an additional 24 percent from other Latin American
countries. It was estimated by the World Bank that 25 percent to 40 percent of
the 550 million persons in Latin America earned less than $2 per day in 2006.
Latin America has the worst income distribution on earth. The reasons behind
undocumented migration to the U.S. are extreme poverty and hopelessness. A poor
and multiplying population within unfair national systems, living next to the
"land of opportunity," will be restrained only if they are offered the means to
become a modest middle class in their home countries.

In 1993, an insurance company's CEO told a group of peers that NAFTA would allow
all of them to stop playing musical chairs and stealing the same American
clients from each other ... NAFTA would grow a Mexican middle class, which would
in turn increase demand for their services. Unfortunately, after NAFTA's
approval, the low-hanging fruit of the Mexican market was picked, and, then,
investors and companies moved on to flirt with other emerging markets. Though
trade and foreign investment increased, real wages for the majority decreased.
The number of extremely poor, overwhelmed by American and Canadian corporate
competition and subsidized U.S. agricultural products, multiplied and either
crossed illegally into the U.S. to find jobs or joined criminal groups in
Mexico.

The Mexico Wall will be a lasting monument to the failure of free trade and
democracy in Latin America. During the '90s, Latin America committed itself to
developing democratic governments and to free trade, based on the widespread
expectations for the NAFTA, which was expected to expand across the hemisphere
by 2005. Today, Presidents Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, Evo Morales in Bolivia,
Rafael Correa in Ecuador and others point to NAFTA and its failure to help
Mexico's poor as a powerful reason to revert to populism and socialism. One such
leader, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, was widely expected to win the presidency
of Mexico in 2006; he lost the election to President Calderón by only 0.58
percent, mainly because he became overly confident and made serious mistakes. In
the U.S., many in political leadership and large sectors of the public now
proclaim that free trade is a failure and should be discarded.

Free trade and NAFTA, especially, should not be discarded but improved through
greater commitment to the growth of a modest middle class in Mexico.
Governments, corporations and investors can hold themselves more accountable in
pursuing the originally proposed objectives of the agreement. A comprehensive
plan to grow incipient democracies and middle classes is essential not only for
Mexico but for all of Latin America. The Mexico-U.S. border, rather than a site
for a wall, could be its ideal laboratory. This border is the only land
connection between the First and the Third worlds; it joins the two contiguous
countries with the greatest global disparity in income.

The U.S. is, par excellence, the model of modern democracy. Its history and
institutions abound with resources to help Mexico bring its evolution toward
democracy to fruition more quickly and effectively. The European Union provides
valuable examples of how to enable less affluent partners in a trade agreement
to compete; it did so successfully in a short number of years with the
incorporation of Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain.

Such an initiative, combined with a guest-worker program and a reality-based
law, would make the undocumented immigrant dilemma manageable, and a model would
have been created for application in other emerging markets. If we shift our
paradigm from fragmented and self-focused to globalized and interdependent, we
will discover solutions to the negative side effects of globalization as well as
unperceived opportunities. The forces of globalization need to be managed, not
feared.

Hector Garcia was co-founder and executive director of Minnesotans for NAFTA. He
was co-founder of the Twin Cities Immigrant Community Roundtable and has been
its volunteer moderator since 2000.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday

A better way to address immigration problems

BYLINE: BY HECTOR GARCIA

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 1090 words


UUndocumented immigrants in the U.S. increased to an estimated 14 million in
2007 from 4 million in 1993 - the year before the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) was initiated. This growth is in stark contrast to former
Attorney General Janet Reno's prediction that NAFTA would reduce illegal
migration into the U.S. by two-thirds in six years and eventually eliminate it.

Americans are angered by this violation of the law and fear its impact on state
budgets and national security. This perspective, though real, is circumscribed
by a national context that excludes the source of the migration; thus, it is
insufficiently informed, can only address local symptoms, and will not eradicate
the problem. A globalized mindset is the essential first step to effectively
reduce undocumented immigration and other side effects of globalization. The
necessary information, strategies and solutions will then become clear.

Instead of presenting a globalized scenario, the U.S. government has responded
to the public's fear by recommending ineffectual and costly Band-Aids. One of
them - arresting and deporting 14 million individuals working in the U.S. -
presents daunting logistical and cost challenges; the consequences to the U.S.
economy would create problems of similar magnitude. Recent articles in the Wall
Street Journal and other publications estimated that 70 percent of the U.S. work
force in agriculture and 30 percent in construction are represented by
undocumented workers.

The suggestion of amnesty disregards the fact that, in 1986, it failed to stem
the flow of undocumented immigrants. The offer of U.S. citizenship appeals
mostly to well-intentioned advocates; it is not necessarily the goal pursued by
the immigrants themselves who, because of proximity and culture would prefer to
eventually return to their home countries. Lastly, the militarized Mexico Wall
along the 2,000-mile border, now being erected, will not stop them. Its
construction has actually forced the undocumented immigrants who are already
here to stop returning home on a regular basis as many used to do, multiplying
their numbers instead of reducing them. All of these measures would leave the
roots of the problem untouched.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimated that 57 percent of undocumented immigrants
come from Mexico and an additional 24 percent from other Latin American
countries. It was estimated by the World Bank that 25 percent to 40 percent of
the 550 million persons in Latin America earned less than $2 per day in 2006.
Latin America has the worst income distribution on earth. The reasons behind
undocumented migration to the U.S. are extreme poverty and hopelessness. A poor
and multiplying population within unfair national systems, living next to the
"land of opportunity," will be restrained only if they are offered the means to
become a modest middle class in their home countries.

In 1993, an insurance company's CEO told a group of peers that NAFTA would allow
all of them to stop playing musical chairs and stealing the same American
clients from each other ... NAFTA would grow a Mexican middle class, which would
in turn increase demand for their services. Unfortunately, after NAFTA's
approval, the low-hanging fruit of the Mexican market was picked, and, then,
many investors and companies moved on to flirt with other emerging markets.
Though trade and foreign investment increased, real wages for the majority
decreased. The number of extremely poor, overwhelmed by American and Canadian
corporate competition and subsidized U.S. agricultural products, multiplied and
either crossed illegally into the U.S. to find jobs or joined criminal groups in
Mexico.

The Mexico Wall will be a lasting monument to the failure of free trade and
democracy in Latin America. During the '90s, Latin America committed itself to
developing democratic governments and to free trade, based on the widespread
expectations for the NAFTA, which was intended to expand across the hemisphere
by 2005. Today, Presidents Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, Evo Morales in Bolivia,
Rafael Correa in Ecuador and others point to NAFTA and its failure to help
Mexico's poor as a powerful reason to revert to populism and socialism. One such
leader, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, was widely expected to win the presidency
of Mexico in 2006; he lost the election to President Calderón by only 0.58
percent, mainly because he became overly confident and made serious mistakes. In
the U.S., many in political leadership and large sectors of the public now
proclaim that free trade is a failure and should be discarded.

Free trade and NAFTA, especially, should not be discarded but improved through
greater commitment to the growth of a modest middle class in Mexico and the
acknowledgment of globalization's labor flows, not only those of investment and
trade. Governments, corporations and investors can hold themselves more
accountable in pursuing the originally proposed objectives of the agreement. A
comprehensive plan to grow incipient democracies and middle classes is essential
not only for Mexico but for all of Latin America and the developing world. The
Mexico-U.S. border, rather than a site for a wall, could be its ideal
laboratory. This border is the only land connection between the First and the
Third worlds; it joins the two contiguous countries with the greatest global
disparity in income.

The U.S. is, par excellence, the model of modern democracy. Its history and
institutions abound with resources to help Mexico bring its evolution toward
democracy to fruition more quickly and effectively. The European Union provides
valuable examples of how to enable less affluent partners in a trade agreement
to compete; it did so successfully in a short number of years with the
incorporation of Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain.

Such an initiative, combined with a guest-worker program and a reality-based
law, would make the undocumented immigrant dilemma manageable, and a model would
have been created for application in other emerging markets. If we shift our
paradigm from fragmented and self-focused to globalized and interdependent, we
will discover solutions to the unsettling side effects of globalization as well
as unperceived opportunities. The forces of globalization need to be managed,
not feared.

Hector Garcia was co-founder and executive director of Minnesotans for NAFTA. He
was co-founder of the Twin Cities Immigrant Community Roundtable and has been
its volunteer moderator since 2000. He can be reached at
hectordata@earthlink.net

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 1, 2008 Friday

Immigration rhetoric softens

BYLINE: BY WAYNE SLATER

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 783 words


Harry Pachon, head of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute at the University of
Southern California Dallas Morning News

'Immigration might be the third rail of politics in the Latino community.'

LOS ANGELES - When the Republican presidential hopefuls made their pitch on
immigration to California voters this week, Harry Pachon thought he heard
something new.

A certain sensitivity.

Beyond the standard call to secure the border, Mike Huckabee cautioned "not to
be cruel." John McCain urged "a humane and compassionate approach."

Mitt Romney, who earlier in the primary season talked about deporting people in
90 days, said in Wednesday's GOP debate that students should be allowed time to
finish their school year and families to make arrangements before returning to
Mexico.

"There's a new language of qualifying the rhetoric, of toning it down," said
Pachon, who heads the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute at the University of
Southern California. "They finally woke up to realize immigration might be the
third rail of politics in the Latino community."

Republicans seeking votes on Super Tuesday are walking a tightrope: They must
appeal to a party base that demands a get-tough approach on illegal immigration
but not alienate Latino voters who might be willing to support them.

A recent California Field Poll of GOP voters found illegal immigration ranked
among the highest on the list of election issues important to Republicans.
California Democrats listed health care on top.

California, Arizona, Colorado and New Mexico are among the Super Tuesday states
with large Hispanic populations. While Latinos tend to vote disproportionately
Democratic by a margin of 2-1, President Bush was able to win a much larger
share, a key part of his successful electoral coalition.

Conservatives have blasted McCain for sponsoring legislation they considered
amnesty for those already here illegally. Chastened, he now emphasizes border
security before any other immigration changes are enacted.

Don Sipple, a California political consultant whose clients have included George
W. Bush and Arnold Schwarzenegger, said McCain is better positioned on
immigration among the state's moderate electorate than Romney.

Sipple said "the immigration issue is fraught with danger for Republicans," but
GOP candidates can run on the issue by taking a position that has wide support.

For example, he said, Schwarzenegger campaigned against driver's licenses for
illegal immigrants in 2003 in his successful run to replace the recalled
incumbent, Gray Davis. He said the idea had support even among many Hispanic
voters.

Jesse Miranda is an expert on Latino evangelicals, a swing-voter group
potentially receptive to Republican candidates on education and conservative
issues like abortion and gay marriage.

He said candidates should avoid a harsh tone that sends the message "you're not
welcome" to Latinos.

Meanwhile, Democrats hope the immigration debate will accrue to their party's
favor by discouraging Hispanics who might otherwise consider voting for the GOP.

Both Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama are appealing to Latino voters in
California and other Super Tuesday states. Both are airing Spanish-language
television commercials.

Clinton leads 2-1 in the polls among Hispanic voters and has five of the state's
seven Latino members of Congress on her side. In addition, she has the
endorsement of Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Henry Cisneros, the
Texan who was U.S. housing secretary in her husband's administration.

During the Democratic debate Thursday in Los Angeles, Obama accused Clinton of
playing politics with immigration, saying she first supported issuing driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants then opposed it. Clinton chided him for avoiding
the issue during the period she was re-evaluating her position.

Both Democrats support providing a path to citizenship and denounced calls to
deport 12 million immigrants in the U.S. illegally.

The Obama campaign dispatched Sen. Edward Kennedy to California on Friday, where
he spoke in broken Spanish to a crowd on the campus of East Los Angeles College.

"Un voto por Obama es un voto para la gente," he said. That translates as: "A
vote for Obama is a vote for the people."

Veteran Democratic political consultant Kam Kuwata called Kennedy's endorsement
of Obama "huge for him."

"In the world of people whose cutting-edge issue is immigration reform, the
Kennedy name is about as golden as you can get," he said.

Clinton's 30-second TV ad, "Nuestra Amiga," or "Our Friend," says she
understands and respects the problems of Latinos. Obama's ad, "El Nos Entiende,"
or "He Understands Us," highlights his background as a community organizer in
Hispanic neighborhoods.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 29, 2008 Friday

After deadly bus crash, immigration questions

BYLINE: By John Brewer jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: NEWS; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Crime and Court Stories; Breaking

LENGTH: 924 words


By the time Olga Marina Franco del Cid crashed into a school bus last week near
Cottonwood, Minn., the suspected illegal immigrant had already been pulled over
by police twice and hired at two companies in the past two years.

In all instances, she allegedly proffered an assumed identity, Alianiss Nunez
Morales. To get the jobs, she allegedly handed over a stolen Social Security
number.

Why didn't authorities or employers realize Franco, a native of Guatemala, was
in the country illegally?

There's no easy answer.

"How is a small-town police department supposed to figure out where people are
from?" asked Police Chief Adam Christopher, of Monte-video, where Franco, 24,
was cited May 25, 2006 -- as Nunez -- for driving without a license. "We just
don't have the ability to do that at a traffic stop."

Christopher said checking the immigration status of everyone pulled over without
a license -- at least one person a week -- or committing some other minor
offense would require too much time and manpower. Nor does he think U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement wants him to.

"If this is something they want us contacting them on every time -- the
possibility they might be an illegal alien -- we certainly will call them. But
I've never gotten that leadership that they wanted that done," said Christopher,
echoing the views of other law enforcement officials in southwestern Minnesota.

He also questioned on what basis his officers could push for information on
immigration status.

"Are we using the fact that they have no driver's license or the fact that they
have brown skin? We just can't operate in that manner," Christopher said.

Court records show Franco was pulled over a second time, Jan. 16 in Marshall,
while riding in a minivan driven by her boyfriend, Francisco Sangabriel Mendoza,
29.

Franco showed a work ID card, while Sangabriel showed a Minnesota driver's
instructional permit identifying him -- falsely, it turns out -- as Samuel
Rivera Melendez. Sangabriel was fined for driving without a license; both were
driven home after the stop by a sheriff's deputy. Franco was driving the same
minivan Feb. 19 when she hit the school bus after allegedly running a stop sign.

At the Jennie-O turkey factory in Willmar -- where Franco worked from October
2007 until this January -- she filled out the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security's Form I-9, an employment eligibility verification worksheet.

It raised no red flags.

"In addition to compliance with federal hiring law, Jennie-O Turkey Store
verifies Social Security numbers as a voluntary, additional step and is
implementing the government E-verify system next month," said Julie Craven,
spokeswoman for parent company Hormel. "The challenge inherent in all these
processes is they do not detect identity theft."

Franco told authorities a cabinetry company in Cottonwood also hired her.

U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann sent a letter to ICE Assistant Secretary Julie L.
Myers on Feb. 22, questioning how law enforcement and ICE work together.

"While Minnesotans grieve, they also want answers," she wrote. "As one of their
representatives in Congress, it is my responsibility to help get those answers
and determine exactly who is responsible for this deadly error -- and how to
prevent these tragedies from continuing to occur."

Bachmann said Friday she had started a discussion with ICE.

"We need to secure our borders and to foster cooperation between local police
and federal immigration authorities," she said in a statement. "Part of that
effort involves making local law enforcement fully aware of the federal
resources at their disposal and opening the lines of communication between them
and ICE. There is so much work that remains to be done."

The same day Bachmann sent her letter, a Marshall police officer pulled over a
man on a driving violation. The man, Pedro A. Diaz-Pineda, did not have a
driver's license and gave a false name. He later admitted he was from Honduras
and in the country illegally. He was arrested on charges of driving without a
license and giving a false name.

Diaz-Pineda appeared in court three days later, pleaded guilty to the charges
and was ordered to pay $332 in fines. Then he was released.

Robert Yant, director of public safety in Marshall, was unavailable for comment
Friday.

Carl Rusnok, an ICE spokesman, said his agency can only respond to cases it is
called about. And when ICE is notified, it must prioritize the cases based on
the severity of the alleged crime and the agency's personnel limitations.

The 5-year-old agency, which was formed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks and includes the former Immigration and Naturalization Service, has
several ways for local police to help enforce immigration issues, Rusnok said.

There's 287G, the section of the Immigration and Nationality Act that allows
local law enforcement to train with ICE in order to enforce immigration law.

There's also the Criminal Alien Program that allows ICE to put a detainer on
jailed suspected illegal immigrants (as it did with Franco in the Lyon County
Jail).

"Criminal aliens are our priority," Rusnok said. "In the case of being ticketed,
it's unlikely that local law enforcement are going to ask you if you're in the
country legally or illegally. But if ICE is notified, we work our hardest to
respond."

UPDATE

Following the Feb. 19 Cottonwood bus crash, four Lakeview School students were
killed and 15 other people were injured. On Friday, only two students remained
hospitalized. Both were at Avera McKennan Hospital in Sioux Falls, S.D., in good
condition.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rescue workers are seen at the site of the bus crash, Tuesday Feb. 19,
2008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday

Lakeville / 15 in van suspected illegal migrants

BYLINE: By Tad Vezner tvezner@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 268 words


A minivan packed with more than a dozen illegal immigrants was allegedly on the
road nonstop for a week before being pulled over recently by Lakeville police.

The 2:30 a.m. arrest one day last week turned up a specially modified Ford
Windstar with Arizona plates packed with 14 men and one woman, all from Mexico
and in the United States without legal documentation.

The group had reportedly been traveling north on Interstate 35 in Lakeville at
81 miles an hour when the van was pulled over.

Tim Counts, spokesperson for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said his
department received details from local police and agents were called out that
morning. He said immigration officials believe the van was being used as part of
a smuggling operation, but there was not enough evidence to bring criminal
charges.

All 15 people are in federal custody and are in the process of being deported.

Counts said authorities sometimes turn up such vehicles, with shocks and
suspension radically modified to hold additional weight.

"That's not for safety reasons -- it's so the van doesn't sag, which is a
telltale sign of an overloaded vehicle," Counts said. "It is a routine
occurrence that people die as a result of an overloaded vehicle."

The Windstar's three rows of seats typically fit seven people.

Counts said ICE typically discovers one or two such vehicles in Minnesota every
year, headed for both big cities and agricultural areas.

In the Midwest, they are more commonly pulled over on routes such as Interstate
80 in Iowa and Nebraska, usually about 10 to 20 times per year.

Tad Vezner can be reached at 651-228-5461.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 27, 2008 Friday

Franco's DNA not on airbags, lawyer says

BYLINE: By John Brewer jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; Minnesota-Twin Cities; News

LENGTH: 641 words


The defense attorney for the illegal immigrant accused of driving the van that
crashed into a school bus and killed four children last winter says his client's
DNA is not on the vehicle's airbags.

The claim goes to the heart of Olga Franco's defense: that she wasn't driving
the minivan when it collided with the bus Feb. 19 near Cottonwood, Minn. The
claim was part of new court filings made Friday.

Manuel Guerrero, Franco's attorney, said his client's boyfriend, the
still-at-large Francisco Sangabriel-Mendoza, 29, an undocumented resident of
Mexico, was driving the van.

Guerrero said he believes Sangabriel-Mendoza fled after the crash but that it is
his DNA -- in the form of blood, saliva and skin cells -- found smeared on the
van's front-seat airbags.

Test results didn't identify whose DNA was on the airbags, Guerrero said, but he
will contend it might be the boyfriend's.

He said a Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension report said Franco's DNA was
nowhere to be found on the airbags.

However, neither the BCA nor Lyon County Attorney Rick Maes would confirm the
existence of such a report.

The development is the latest twist in the defense effort to exonerate Franco:


     ·    Last month, a federal immigration agent testified that witnesses have
          said Sangabriel-Mendoza was with Franco in the van.



     ·    Guerrero has said he has talked with a witness who knew
          Sangabriel-Mendoza and drove him from the scene after the crash.



     ·    Two other witnesses have said they saw a man running from the scene,
          Guerrero has said.


However, authorities have insisted Franco was the driver, having been pinned
behind the van's steering wheel and extricated by rescue workers. Meanwhile,
Guerrero has contended Sangabriel-Mendoza was thrown from the van on impact and
the force of the collision thrust Franco into the driver's seat.

In other developments, the location of the trial could change for a second time
after Guerrero argued Friday in court that the case should be heard closer to
the Twin Cities.

On June 11, Lyon County District Judge David Peterson granted a motion from
Guerrero to move the trial from Marshall -- near the site of the crash -- to
Willmar, in Kandiyohi County, about an hour away.

As he argued in the previous motion, Guerrero said Franco could receive a more
balanced and impartial jury if the case were heard farther away from the
close-knit communities of southwestern Minnesota.

Also, his team of three lawyers and an interpreter is working pro bono and all
live in the Twin Cities.

He suggested holding the trial in Hennepin County.

Lyon County Attorney Rick Maes countered that he didn't want the trial moved out
of Lyon County in the first place but that the judge's decision to move to
Kandiyohi County was well reasoned.

In the decision, Peterson dismissed the notion of a biased jury pool in Lyon
County but agreed it would be difficult to find local jurors untouched by the
accident or subsequent discussion about it.

The judge said he would take the latest motion for a change of venue under
advisement.

Franco, 24, who lived in Minneota but is originally from Guatemala, is accused
of running a stop sign and crashing her boyfriend's van into a Lakeview School
District bus on Minnesota 23 near Cottonwood. Four students were killed and 16
were injured.

Franco faces four state counts of criminal vehicular homicide and 17 counts of
criminal vehicular injury for the injuries suffered by the children on the bus
as well as the driver of a pickup truck involved in the three-vehicle accident.

She also faces six federal counts of aggravated identity theft, false
representation of a Social Security number and use of a false document for
employment-eligibility verification.

Sangabriel-Mendoza faces the same federal charges.

Franco remains in custody on $200,000 bail in the Lyon County jail in Marshall.

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

Iowa meat-processing plant employees plead not guilty to aiding, abetting
charges

BYLINE: By Trish Mehaffey Cedar Rapids Gazette

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; Business

LENGTH: 242 words


CEDAR RAPIDS -- Two Agriprocessors Inc. human resource employees pleaded not
guilty Wednesday afternoon in U.S. District Court to aiding and abetting illegal
immigrants.

Laura Althouse, 38, of Postville, is charged with aiding and abetting document
fraud and aiding and abetting aggravated identity theft.

Althouse works in the company's human resource department and has payroll duties
at the kosher meatpacking plant in Postville. Althouse is accused of helping a
supervisor assist employees with the completion of new applications, in new
names and using newly acquired false identification documents, according to a
criminal complaint.

The incident allegedly occurred May 11, a day before a federal immigration raid
resulting in more than 300 convictions on charges related to identity theft.

Karina Freund, 29, of Fayette, is charged with harboring and aiding and abetting
the harboring of undocumented aliens. She works in the company's human resource
department and was implicated by former, undocumented employees who claimed she
helped obtain false identification documents for them, according to criminal
complaint.

If convicted, Althouse faces up to 12 years in federal prison and Freund faces
up to five years.

Both women also face more than 9,000 simple misdemeanor charges of child labor
law violations filed by the state. They pleaded not guilty last week to those
charges.

A trial date for the federal charges is set for Nov. 17 for both women.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday

Economy, enforcement slow illegal immigration

BYLINE: By Víctor Manuel Ramos Orlando Sentinel

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 630 words


ORLANDO, Fla. -- Alma Valdez sat alone in a backroom of Foto Estudio Azteca, a
Mexican party supply store in Apopka, Fla., that sells items for baptisms,
weddings and quinceaneras.

She was tying tiny balloons to festive table centerpieces that no one seemed in
the mood to buy.

Business is slow in this northwest Orange County city that has been a magnet for
immigrants since the 1970s.

"We are very close to despair because we are not even worrying about selling
more at this point. We are worrying about how we are going to stay open," said
Valdez, whose mother owns the shop. "This is the worst it's been in the five
years this store has been here."

Other shops at Mi Mexico plaza, where few cars were parked in a lot that once
was full, are feeling Valdez's pain.

Two studies released Thursday by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research
organization in Washington, D.C., shed light on the impact of the nation's
economic downturn coupled with the aggressive enforcement of immigration laws
that has led to massive deportations.

Fewer immigrants are entering the U.S. illegally, reversing a decade-old trend
of spiked border crossings and people overstaying their visas.

The Pew analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data puts the nationwide population of
"unauthorized immigrants" at 11.9 million in 2008. That's an estimated drop of
about half a million from peak numbers last year.

The number of immigrants entering the country illegally fell to about 500,000 a
year from 2005 to 2008 -- down from an average of 800,000 a year from 2000 to
2004.

Now, more immigrants are entering the country legally than illegally.

The second report shows immigrants who have not become U.S. citizens -- whether
they are in the country legally or not -- have seen a decline in median
household income while all households saw a slight increase in wages. Those
immigrants earned about $1,400 less in 2007 than in 2005.

Immigrant workers, particularly Hispanics, have been hit hard by the economic
crisis because they were overrepresented in manufacturing and construction jobs,
researchers said.

"For Latinos and for foreign-born workers, the driver has been the housing boom,
followed now by the housing bust," said Rakesh Kochhar, one of the studies'
co-authors. "They had very good times in the not too distant past, but since the
end of 2006 as the market has gone south, so has the income of Latinos."

For supporters of immigration enforcement, the numbers confirm their calls for
action are working.

"People have always said 'Change the incentives and they will leave,' " said
Steven Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington, D.C., group that favors tougher restrictions. "With this increased
enforcement and the downturn in the economy, we have a test of that situation
and it seems to show that with changing incentives people leave."

But those measures, say immigrant advocates, have very real consequences.

"People are suffering more. Part of it is economic suffering, but it is a
suffering of their spirits also," said Sister Ann Kendrick, an immigrant
advocate with the Hope CommUnity Center in Apopka. "The thought that you will
get ahead if you come here and work hard and do the right thing seems lost for
many of them."

At the Mi Mexico plaza, where the sidewalk traffic around noon consisted of an
immigrant beggar asking for a dollar to buy a taco, Valdez wondered how much
longer she and her family could hold on.

She and her mother are legal immigrants, but not all their customers are.

"There are whole days when no one comes in," said Valdez, looking at the empty
shop filled with colorful pinatas.

And when people do walk in, they spend very little, she said. Wednesday's sales,
for example, amounted to $21.30 -- not even enough for a tank of gas.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

Card issuer solicits illegal immigrants, critics say;
Biggest U.S. bank hopes program will reach growing Hispanic market

BYLINE: E. SCOTT RECKARD, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 411 words


Continuing to court the burgeoning market of Hispanic immigrants, Bank of
America said Tuesday it is test-marketing credit cards for Spanish-speaking
customers who may not have Social Security numbers.

The cards, which critics say will enable illegal immigrants to put down roots
more easily in the United States, carry higher than usual interest rates and
allow users to charge only $500.

The cards are designed to be a first step for immigrants trying to build a
credit history, bank spokeswoman Alexandra Trower said Tuesday.

Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America, the nation's largest retail bank, is
test-marketing the card program in Los Angeles County. It plans to introduce it
nationwide if all goes well, according to the Wall Street Journal, which first
reported on the program.

Bank of America, Wells Fargo Bank, Citibank and other big retail institutions
are all intent on establishing relations with Hispanics, whose growing numbers
and economic muscle make them the largest "unbanked" segment of U.S. society.

Money transfer services now are widely available at big banks, allowing
Hispanics to send billions of dollars a year to relatives in Latin America.

Bank of America's SafeSend program allows customers with checking accounts to
wire up to $3,000 a month to Mexico free of charge.

Other banks, including Citibank and Wells Fargo Bank, have experimented with
providing mortgages to immigrants who have no Social Security numbers to
identify themselves.

The banks instead allow the immigrants to establish accounts by using individual
taxpayer identification numbers, or ITINs, issued by the Internal Revenue
Service. They also may accept an identification card issued by Mexican
consulates, known as the matricula consular.

The Los Angeles department store chain La Curacao offers credit cards to
undocumented Hispanic immigrants with a matricula and has issued nearly 1
million.

Bank of America complies with all banking and antiterrorism laws governing
customer identification, which permit the use of ITINs, spokeswoman Trower said.

Critics complain that it is easy for illegal immigrants to obtain ITINs, which
they then use to gain access to financial services and tax benefits to which
they are not entitled.

"At face value the program seems to be problematic," said Russ Knocke, a
spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security. "It seems to be lending
itself to possibilities of perpetrating identity theft or creating more risk for
money laundering."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 17, 2007 Saturday

Positions galore, but bereft of evidence and implications

BYLINE: DAVID BRODER

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 749 words


WASHINGTON

During Thursday night's Democratic presidential debate in Las Vegas, New Mexico
Gov. Bill Richardson was given a chance to answer the question about offering
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

Before CNN's Wolf Blitzer turned to him, several of Richardson's rivals had
wrestled with the question that had thrown Sen. Hillary Clinton for a loop in
the previous debate, triggering two weeks of complaints that she was being
dodgy.

Clearly intent on setting that notion to rest, she answered this time with a
monosyllable, "No." Her governor, Eliot Spitzer, had abandoned the plan a day
earlier, so she was joining the retreat.

Instead, it was Sen. Barack Obama who seemed flummoxed, At first, he
acknowledged that he had voted as an Illinois state senator to require
undocumented aliens to "get trained, get a license, get insurance to protect
public safety." But a moment later, confusingly, he said, "I am not proposing
that that's what we do." And finally, he said, "Yes."

Former Sen. John Edwards objected to the question, then said "No, but ... anyone
who's on the path to earning American citizenship should be able to have a
driver's license."

Sen. Chris Dodd said "I think driver's licenses are the wrong thing to be doing,
in terms of attracting people to come here as undocumented."

Rep. Dennis Kucinich objected to the question because "there aren't any illegal
human beings," and, after an irrelevant swipe at NAFTA, ended up agreeing with
Edwards.

And then came Richardson, who said that four years ago, when the Legislature
sent him a bill allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, "I
signed it. My law enforcement people said it's a matter of public safety. ... We
wanted more people to be insured. When we started with this program, 33 percent
of New Mexicans were uninsured. Today, it's 11 percent. Traffic fatalities have
gone down. It's a matter of public safety. States have to act when the federal
government and Congress doesn't act (on comprehensive immigration reform)."

Blitzer then turned to Sen. Joe Biden, whose whole answer, like Clinton's, was
"No."

The transcript notes this was followed by laughter and applause.

And, of course, none of the other candidates was ever asked, "What about the
public safety argument cited by Richardson?"

That is revealing of the weakness of these debates as tools for helping voters
decide which candidate to support. The TV impresarios are so eager for
headlines, they rarely pause to ask the candidates for evidence to support their
opinions or assertions. It is bang-bang, but rarely because-and-here's-proof.

On driver's licenses, Richardson offered such proof, but in another case, he did
not. His "solution" to Iraq is to pull out all U.S. troops and contractors
within a year and leave it to "an all-Muslim, all-Arab peacekeeping force, with
some European forces, headed by the U.N."

Well, it's a nice idea, but such a force exists only in Richardson's imagination
- and none is likely to materialize. But he is not called upon to explain.

There are similar, if not worse, examples on the Republican side. This kind of
thing makes these preprimary debates seem an exercise in theatrical
artificiality, rather than substance.

Three weeks ago, it was Hillary Clinton "stumbling." Last week, she was feisty
and aggressive, flinging her own accusations of mud-slinging at Edwards and
Obama, and finding inconsistencies in their positions.

In all the sound and fury, several important points were lost. The candidates
circled around - but never directly engaged - the question of whether it is
realistic, effective and practical to mandate that every family in the country
obtain health insurance - and if so, how it would be financed.

As to international policy, we learned along the way that Hillary Clinton is
more hard-line than her main rivals, not only on her willingness to keep a
substantial residual force in Iraq, but in her belief that national security
trumps human rights as a priority for American foreign policy. No Jimmy Carter
she.

But the implications of these positions go unexplored, because there's always
another candidate, another topic, another headline clamoring for attention.

I suspect these candidates are better than they have looked, and that they'd
have reasons to give, if they had time to utter them. I know the voters deserve
better. Can't these debates be rescued?

David Broder of the Washington Post writes a nationally syndicated column. His
e-mail address is davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday

Bush renews call for immigration reform

BYLINE: MICHELLE MITTELSTADT, Houston Chronicle

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 369 words


WASHINGTON -- Though President Bush surely would have preferred giving his State
of the Union address to a Congress controlled by Republicans, his party's loss
of power paradoxically may give him the best chance to rewrite the nation's
immigration laws.

Bush renewed his push Tuesday night for a bill that would give millions of
illegal immigrants a chance to earn legal status, add more resources for
immigration enforcement, and establish a guest worker program for future foreign
workers.

The Senate last year approved a bill mirroring Bush's goals, but the effort
foundered amid sharp differences with the House, where Republican conservatives
already had pushed through an enforcement approach that was silent on
legalization and guest workers.

"Extending hope and opportunity in our country requires an immigration system
worthy of America with laws that are fair and borders that are secure," Bush
told lawmakers. "When laws and borders are routinely violated, this harms the
interests of our country."

Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who last year co-authored a plan that paired border
security with a guest-worker program, said that "a divided government may
provide the best opportunity to actually do some of the hardest things."

Cornyn predicted that House Democrats, who have been far friendlier to Bush's
plan than their GOP counterparts, could brush aside Republican dissent and pass
legislation granting the chance for legal status for many of the nation's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

But such action would not come without a fight, said Rep. Ted Poe, a Republican
who has been an ardent opponent of what he deems amnesty for illegal immigrants.

"It's the same song, second verse on amnesty," Poe said of the president's plan.
"The border isn't secure and we can't move to Phase Two until the border is
secure."

But Bush insisted that his plan is not an amnesty and that the fate of illegal
immigrants who have long lived in this country must be addressed.

"We need to uphold the great tradition of the melting pot that welcomes and
assimilates new arrivals," he said. "And we need to resolve the status of the
illegal immigrants who are already in our country without animosity and without
amnesty."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

Serb immigrant linked to massacre

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 360 words


BRIEFING: MILWAUKEE

A Serbian immigrant who lives in suburban Greenfield has been taken into
custody, accused of immigration fraud for failing to disclose the extent of his
military service in Bosnia at the time of a massacre of about 7,500 Muslim men
and boys there in 1995.

A criminal complaint filed in U.S. District Court said his name was listed on
documents used by prosecutors at the International Criminal Tribunal for the
Former Yugoslavia in The Hague.

Nedjo Ikonic, 40, had not been charged with war crimes. A bail hearing was
scheduled for Wednesday afternoon.

His wife, Borislava, said she didn't understand why federal agents came to the
family's home with guns drawn and handcuffed her husband in front of their two
daughters over an apparent paperwork problem.

"We are not criminals, drug dealers, pedophiles, psychos or criminals. We're
just one normal family," she said. "We don't have guns. We're just a regular
family. We think about our kids, we work hard, we want to buy a house."

Nikola Kostich, a lawyer representing Ikonic, said his client was lumped in with
thousands of others who had been affiliated with the Bosnian Serb army but
weren't involved in war crimes.

-- Associated Press

Workers return to plant after blast

Some workers are returning to the Falk Corp. complex where a propane-fueled
explosion and fire last week killed three employees, demolished a warehouse area
and severely damaged other buildings.

Areas with relatively heavy damage are still off limits for about 75 to 100
workers expected to be at the site Wednesday for tasks of regrouping and
recovering from the blast the morning of Dec. 6, said Evan Zeppos, spokesman for
the parent Rexnord Corp., also based in Milwaukee.

A Rexnord report said buildings away from the blast site, including offices,
shops and the foundry, appeared structurally sound. Also, the equipment and
machine tools checked so far appeared in relatively good shape.

Plans called for more thorough inspections as Falk and a private contractor work
to remove asbestos displaced by the explosion, according to Todd Weiler, a
spokesman for the city Department of Neighborhood Services.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

Immigration reform complex

BYLINE: EDWARD LOTTERMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 776 words


The coordinated raids Tuesday on Swift & Co. packing plants in Worthington,
Minn. and five other cities around the country highlight the inherent
complications of immigration reform.

In each case, large numbers of federal officers led by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement arrived at the plant early in the morning and cordoned it off. In
Worthington, they detained some 230 workers on the morning shift and removed
them on buses.

ICE said that the purpose of the raid was to break up an identity-theft scheme
but that anyone without legal status would be processed for deportation. Local
government officials expressed concern about how the raid would affect community
residents and the local economy. Immigration attorneys and activists described
how some families were broken up and how some citizens or legal residents had
been swept up in the raid.

Even though local government officials and area residents acknowledged that many
of the plant's workers were in the country illegally, Swift & Co. spokespeople
stated they had never knowingly hired anyone without proper documentation. They
added that they are participating in the ICE's Basic Pilot Internet-based
documentation check program.

The raids made national headlines, but the number of people detained, nearly
1,300 for the six plants, was less than the number often detained at the border
on a single night. A recent report noted that of all the people born in Mexico
who are now living, nearly 10 percent reside in the United States. That number
is growing by some hundreds of thousands per year.

The raids illustrate the Catch-22s in immigration policy. Large differentials in
wages between the United States and other countries create large incentives to
migrate. Employers in highly competitive industries want to hire workers as
cheaply as possible. It is against the law to hire anyone who is not legally
entitled to work in this country.

However, the ICE seldom punishes employers. It is difficult to do so since the
documents legally allowed to establish a worker's status are easily forged. The
Tuesday raids are an attempt to deter such forgery, but are minuscule compared
with the problem.

Moreover, laws ban discrimination on the basis of ethnic names, appearance or
language. The majority of those apprehended Tuesday were from Mexico or Central
America, but there are also millions of individuals born in those countries who
are naturalized U.S. citizens or legal residents. Increased hiring scrutiny
based on Hispanic appearance, language or surname inevitably would cause
hardship for those with every legal right to work here.

Moreover, legal and illegal immigrants cannot be neatly divided. Many working
here illegally have spouses or children who are citizens or legal residents.

A uniform national identification document that incorporated high-tech measures
such as finger or retina scans, holograms and so forth might make it easier for
employers to screen out those who may not be hired legally, but there always is
strong opposition to any mandatory national ID on civil liberties grounds.
Moreover, issuing some new ID to the 152 million people in the labor force would
be a gargantuan task involving review of the same easily forged documents now
acceptable for employment

Birth certificates always have been the responsibility of local government. They
come in myriad formats and generally are easy to forge with scanners and modern
software. Local and state governments resist turning this function over to the
national government. Any tighter system for new births would not affect the work
force for decades.

The federal government could implement a broader, more foolproof database to
check for duplicate Social Security numbers or other inconsistencies in existing
documents. Basic Pilot is a step in that direction, but is far from perfect.
Congress is unwilling to appropriate large sums for a more capable system.

Employers like cheap labor. In a competitive sector like meatpacking, if one
company increases its vigilance in hiring, it will be disadvantaged compared to
competitors that do not. If effective enforcement applied to all plants, the
available labor supply would be smaller and wage rates would rise. Profits of
packing companies would not be hurt in the long run, but meat prices to
consumers would rise.

As long as U.S. employers offer jobs that illegal immigrants can take, many will
migrate. Episodic raids like the one in Worthington will make headlines but have
little overall effect. Nor will border fences and guest worker programs make
much difference.

St. Paul economist and writer Edward Lotterman can be reached at
elotterman@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 26, 2006 Tuesday

Mr. President: Let's meet on the Swift raids

BYLINE: RUBÉN ROSARIO

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 748 words


For the first time in his life, after more than a week of sleepless nights and
20-plus-hour workdays, John Keller felt compelled to write a letter to a sitting
U.S. president.

"Bush made a sympathetic and good statement that the Swift raids (by federal
immigration authorities) require us to pass humane immigration reform by the end
of the year," Keller, the 38-year-old executive director of the St. Paul-based
Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota, said last week.

"I sincerely invited him to come on the 30-day anniversary of the raid on Jan.
12," Keller told me. "Perhaps convene Minnesota legislators concerned about
immigration reform and make Worthington the backdrop. If a town like Worthington
can come together and find a better way to do this, then I think any town in
America can do that. Maybe Bush will come.''

I suggest an Evite, also, in case Bush doesn't check his snail mail that often.

Keller, among a handful of lawyers who provided counsel for those swept up in
the raid, offered a behind-the-scenes update on what he calls a "man-made
disaster. ''

He's referring to the Dec. 12 federal raids in Worthington and at five other
Swift and Co. meatpacking locations in the nation. More than 1,000 suspected
undocumented workers were rounded up, including 230 at the Worthington site.
About 100 nationwide face criminal charges of using fake or stolen IDs to secure
work, in addition to scrutiny of their legal status in the country.

This is not a tale debating who's right and who's wrong in the complex and
vitriolic illegal immigration debate. It is what it is.

A good number of detainees are being held at local jails in Sherburne, Carver
and Washington counties, according to local Immigration and Customs Enforcement
spokesman Tim Counts. Ramsey County officials turned away detainees from the
Dec. 12 incident, saying the county jail didn't have room, and the county has
since decided not to take any such detainees at all.

Keller said a good number of those nabbed opted for voluntary deportation back
to Mexico or other Latin American countries.

Most of those detained locally are Salvadoran nationals protected by a 1986
federal law mandating that they be processed in the federal jurisdiction of
their arrest or incarceration. Detainees from other countries have been shipped
to Georgia.

Counts said he had no exact figures of who was where but confirmed that a
"significant'' number had opted for deportation rather than spend several months
in jail fighting their removal.

"I know at least five families who have not heard from their loved ones still,''
Keller said.

Most of those detained are men, largely the breadwinners of their families, and
numerous bond hearings were held in Bloomington in the past two weeks. Federal
immigration prosecutors generally asked for $10,000 at the outset. Most of the
bonds have been set at the $5,000 to $7,000 level, a sum most of the inmates'
families cannot raise.

"We are talking here about very poor and low-working-class people who cannot
afford the bond even if it was offered to them.'' Keller explained.

Finding inmates and providing legal counsel for them, Keller said, was a huge
challenge in the first few days after the raid. "I had one woman who called (an
800 number set up by the federal government) and got five different responses
about where her brother-in-law was.''

Nevertheless, in an e-mail sent to Department of Justice officials and others
last week, Keller praised and thanked government and immigration court judges
and personnel for quickly scheduling hearings.

"Without going into details, this jurisdiction's professionalism and commitment
to working together as a collaborative with all sides far outshines anywhere
else I have heard of around the country,'' Keller wrote. "Truly remarkable.''
Keller also praised Worthington's mayor and many residents who provided support
and supplies to affected families.

Keller points to the kids left behind. It's they, perhaps, who are facing the
biggest impact of the raids.

"I have kids,'' he said. "Most of these kids are U.S. citizens. I think about
them and mine, both rehearsing last week at school for Christmas presentations.
They, like mine, were expecting to wave at their parents in the audience.

"But they (the parents) weren't there,'' Keller continued. "How do you explain
that to a kid? It may sound overly dramatic, but that's the reality."

If Bush does decide to come, lunch is on me.

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

Legislation to aid immigrants is 'American-dream thing,' supporter says

BYLINE: DENNIS LIEN, Pioneer Press

LENGTH: 330 words


Immigrants in Minnesota would get more help becoming citizens, attending
college, and getting work under a legislative package announced Wednesday by
House and Senate lawmakers.

The proposals would help the state attract the workers it needs to replace an
aging bulge of workers who will be leaving their jobs over the next decade or
so, they said.

"This is a good-justice thing,'' said Rep. Carlos Mariani, DFL-St. Paul. "It's
an American-dream thing.''

Portions of the package have been debated in past legislative sessions, but have
not passed either chamber. The package, which is being introduced in four
separate bills, would:

o Provide immigrants access to tax credits for naturalization fees, which will
increase from $400 to $600 this summer.

o Enable immigrant children who have attended Minnesota high schools for at
least three years and graduated to get in-state tuition rates at state colleges.

o Establish the Minnesota Commission on New Americans, which would identify
resources for immigrants and would work with businesses.

o Urge Congress to pass immigrations laws that would expand the number of work
visas, reimburse hospitals for emergency care of undocumented immigrants, and
pay for civics and English classes.

John Keller, executive director of the Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota, said
it's unclear how many people would be affected by the various bills. About 7,300
people became new citizens in Minnesota in 2005, and 300 to 500 people could
benefit from the in-state tuition proposal, he added.

Sen. Ann Rest, DFL-New Hope, said the number of students graduating from
Minnesota high schools will peak next year, meaning fewer youths will be
entering the workforce. For Minnesota to maintain its economic health, help must
come from people who arrive here from other states or nations, Rest added.

"Immigrants are vitally important to our state and they've always been
important,'' Mariani said.

Dennis Lien can be reached at dlien@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5588.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday

Noncitizens vote elsewhere in the U.S. -- why not here?;
St. Paul group wants a debate on letting legal immigrants cast ballots in local
elections

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 795 words


An influential political group in St. Paul wants city leaders to talk about
letting noncitizens vote in local elections, an idea sure to join a list of
hotly debated immigration issues in Minnesota.

Precisely which noncitizens could be allowed to cast ballots is an open
question. Cities outside Minnesota have passed laws enabling people with legal
immigration papers to vote.

Take Action Minnesota listed the idea on literature it gave City Council
candidates before screening them for endorsement last month. The group aims to
"start a conversation" about the issue, said Dan McGrath, Take Action's
executive director.

"There's no reason that legal, taxpaying citizens shouldn't have a say in how
those taxes are spent," McGrath said.

Take Action, whose former board chairwoman is a top aide to St. Paul Mayor Chris
Coleman, has not drafted an ordinance or defined what it considers a legal
noncitizen.

"It's not something we're campaigning on, and I don't think we will," McGrath
said. "This is about having a conversation with the people that we're going to
endorse, and we want to start putting some things out there."

Noncitizen voting efforts have succeeded elsewhere. Takoma Park and five other
towns in Maryland allow some form of noncitizen voting. Chicago allows
noncitizens to vote in school board elections, and a proposition for similar
voting rights in San Francisco lost by a 2 percent margin.

"It ought to tell you something that this didn't even fly in San Francisco,"
said Ira Mehlmen, a Los Angeles-based spokesman for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, referring to a voting-rights expansion effort that narrowly
failed a referendum vote in 2004. "I think it just rubs people the wrong way."

Last month, a coalition of 60 organizations launched an effort in New York City
to allow legal immigrants to vote for the city's highest elected officials.

Laws governing who can vote have historically been loosely defined, said Ron
Hayduk, a professor at the Borough of Manhattan Community College and a
spokesman for the Immigrant Voting Project, a driving force behind the
voting-rights effort in New York City.

Citizenship requirements have been a relatively recent development, dating back
to the turn of the last century, Hayduk said of research he had done on the
matter.

"Out of the 231 years the U.S. has been in existence, noncitizens have voted
somewhere for 189 of those," he said. "Immigrants could run for office, could
win seats and did. The idea that noncitizens could vote is older, practiced
longer and more consistent with democratic ideals that the practice of not
allowing them to vote."

Hayduk said access to the polls is also a good way to assimilate new arrivals to
a community, particularly school board races, since having kids in public school
gives residents a stake in the process.

"They're relatively minor elections, but they're also a great way to gain civic
engagement and political education," he said.

It would be a difficult sell in Minnesota, nonetheless: The state constitution
requires voters to be citizens, and would likely require amendment to expand the
franchise in St. Paul, according to Ramsey County elections manager Joe Mansky.

None of the city's current elected leadership expressed any support for such an
effort, including Mayor Chris Coleman.

But Take Action has been a political force in St. Paul. When it was known as
Progressive Minnesota, the organization was key to defeating a Twins ballpark
referendum in 1999 and passing three excess school levies in a row. That group
endorsed then-mayoral candidate Coleman in 2005, and his deputy policy director,
Anne Hunt, was chair of the Take Action Minnesota board until last month.

More than half of the candidates standing for council elections are members of
the group, and three of them, who have earned Take Action's endorsement, are
former members of the board of directors, including union activist and Ward 4
contender Bernie Hesse, former Coleman staffer Melvin Carter and East Side
activist Pakou Hang.

Take Action also endorsed Ward 5 Council Member Lee Helgen.

Neither Hesse nor Helgen said they were familiar with Take Action's position on
the matter, and Pakou Hang, running against Ward 6 Council Member Dan Bostrom,
did not respond to a call about the subject.

Carter, though, said it would be something he might consider.

"Any time you talk about that, changing what we do on Election Day, it's bound
to be controversial," he said. Still, he said, "It's absolutely something I'd be
interested in. We have a lot of new immigrants in Ward 1, and I think it's
important that those folks have a voice, too."

Online:Should St. Paul allow noncitizens to vote in local elections? Take part
in our poll and learn more about this issue at www.twincities.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday

Willmar, Minn. / Immigration raids, arrests trigger lawsuit

BYLINE: BY SHANNON PRATHER Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 536 words


Immigration agents conducted an illegal "campaign of terror and intimidation"
that included warrantless searches and racial profiling during last week's raids
in Willmar, Minn., a lawsuit filed Thursday alleged.

A group of 23 named Willmar residents and 40 John and Jane Does filed the suit
in U.S. District Court in Minnesota with the support of the consul of Honduras.

An attorney for the plaintiffs said some of the people swept up last week are
citizens and legal residents of the United States, though the attorney didn't
know every plaintiff's immigration status.

Attorney Robert Long said everyone is protected by the Constitution, regardless
of status.

"If you are in this country, you are entitled to constitutional protections," he
said. "That's a very critical legal principle."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Tim Counts denied that agents
violated the law, saying they knocked on doors, identified themselves and
received permission to enter.

"These are widely accepted law enforcement procedures that have been affirmed
repeatedly by the courts," according to a statement by ICE. "We look forward to
defending our actions in a court of law."

Attorneys are asking a judge to issue a restraining order preventing the
government from engaging in further immigration enforcement proceedings or
deportation actions against plaintiffs pending the suit's outcome.

The suit alleges ICE agents staked out apartment complexes and mobile-home parks
with Hispanic residents, conducted unconstitutional stops and detentions based
on race and national origin and barged into homes without warrants. Those
arrested were not told of their right to remain silent and were denied access to
attorneys, the suit alleges.

"The ICE raids were the product of racial and ethnic profiling at odds with the
fundamental premise of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fifth Amendment,"
according to the suit.

In affidavits, plaintiffs described ICE agents in bulletproof vests armed with
guns knocking on doors and yelling, "police." As soon as someone cracked open
the door, agents pushed into the homes, searching rooms and sometimes placing
adults in handcuffs as their frightened children watched, the affidavits stated.

Wenscelao Padilla Guzman said agents banged on the doors and windows of his
house. When Guzman hesitated to answer, the "front door broke open," he said.
Guzman, who is Honduran, was handcuffed and his house searched until agents
found his immigration documents. As the agents left, one turned to say, "The
next time, you shouldn't take so long to answer the door," the court filings
say.

Raul Veliz Jr., a U.S. citizen, said ICE agents surrounded his car and detained
him for 30 minutes, questioning him.

Agents arrested 49 illegal immigrants, criminals and immigration fugitives in
Willmar as part of Operation Cross Check, according to an ICE statement released
Monday. Of those arrested, 18 had criminal convictions, six were fugitives, and
25 were in violation of U.S. immigration law.

The crimes range from theft, assault and criminal sexual conduct to driving
while intoxicated and distributing a controlled substance.

Shannon Prather can be reached at sprather@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5452.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday

Suit alleges 'terror and intimidation' during Willmar immigration roundup

BYLINE: BY SHANNON PRATHER Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 323 words


Immigration agents conducted an illegal campaign of "terror and intimidation"
that included warrantless searches and racial profiling during last week's raids
in Willmar, Minn., according to a civil rights lawsuit filed today.

A group of about two dozen named Willmar residents and 40 John and Jane Does
filed the suit in U.S. District Court in Minnesota. The Consul of Honduras
supports the suit.

The suit alleges United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents sought
out apartment complexes and mobile home parks with known concentrations of
Hispanic residents, conducted unconstitutional stops and detentions based on
race and national origin, and barged into homes without warrants. Those arrested
were not told of their right to remain silent and were denied access to
attorneys, the suit alleges.

"The ICE raids were the product of racial and ethnic profiling at odds with the
fundamental premise of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fifth Amendment,"
according to the suit.

The plaintiffs ask a judge to enjoin the government from engaging in further
immigration enforcement proceedings or deportation actions against plaintiffs
until the conclusion of this suit. They ask the judge to declare the agents'
actions unconstitutional. The suit also seeks compensatory damages.

Agents arrested 49 illegal immigrants, criminals and immigration fugitives in
Willmar as part of Operation Cross Check, according to an ICE statement released
in April. Of those arrested, 18 had criminal convictions, six were fugitives and
25 were in violation of U.S. immigration law.

The crimes range from theft, assault and criminal sexual conduct to driving
while intoxicated and distributing a controlled substance.

More than half of those arrested had claimed to be U.S. citizens from Puerto
Rico, the statement said.

Three other suspected illegal immigrants are currently serving sentences in
Willmar and will be turned over to ICE upon their release.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 30, 2007 Monday

From some demagogues and nativists, assertions about immigrants that defy facts

BYLINE: SEBASTIAN MALLABY

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 825 words



WASHINGTON
President Bush is doing his pragmatic best to secure immigration reform. He is
honorably laboring to revive some version of the bipartisan bill that got 62
votes in the Senate last year. But watching this torturous process is enough to
make a sane person scream. The livelihoods of millions are at stake, yet most
immigration pronouncements are nonsense.

     ·    People accuse immigrants of gang violence, drunken driving and a
          general contempt for the law. But in 2000, the incarceration rate for
          immigrants was just one-fifth the rate for the population as a whole,
          according to Kristin Butcher of the Federal Reserve and Anne Morrison
          Piehl of Rutgers University.




     ·    People say immigrants are feckless and lazy. But in California in
          2004, 94 percent of undocumented men ages 18 to 64 were in the
          workforce, compared with 82 percent of native-born men. Far from being
          part of a shiftless underclass, the act of coming to the United States
          makes immigrants among the most upwardly mobile groups in the nation,
          only a bit behind hedge-fund managers.




     ·    People say, contrariwise, that immigrants steal jobs from native-born
          Americans. But economists have patiently explained for years that
          there is no finite "lump of labor" in an economy. The presence of
          migrants causes new jobs to be created: Factories that might have gone
          abroad spring up in Arizona or Texas. Hasn't anyone noticed that
          California, where fully one-third of the adult population is foreign
          born, has an unemployment rate of less than 5 percent?




     ·    People say that immigrants burden social services while not paying
          taxes. Actually, undocumented immigrants are ineligible for welfare,
          food stamps and Medicaid; and although they do use hospital emergency
          rooms and schools, they also pay sales taxes and payroll taxes, and
          one in three pays income tax. The net result is that immigrants cost
          the average native U.S. household an extra $200 in taxes each year,
          according to a study of 1996 data.



Once you take into account the boost to pretax incomes caused by immigrants'
contribution to growth, the total effect of undocumented workers on native-born
Americans is roughly zero, according to Gordon Hanson of the University of
California at San Diego.

     ·    People say that immigrants cause wage losses even if they don't cause
          job losses. Here the story is subtle: Some studies find no evidence
          that immigrants pull down wages, while others find that native-born
          high school dropouts lost as much as 9 percent of their earnings
          between 1980 and 2000 as a result of immigration. But - and here comes
          the sane scream - there's no way that even a 9 percent wage loss can
          justify the policies that immigration hawks advocate.



Really, how much could draconian enforcement restore those wages? Between a
quarter and two-fifths of undocumented workers originally enter legally, so
stringent border enforcement could affect only about two-thirds of new arrivals.
Moreover, arrivals are only part of the issue; the alleged downward pressure on
wages comes less from the 400,000 illegal immigrants who show up each year than
from the 35 million immigrants already here, two-thirds of them legally. And
migrants will continue coming even if the entire southern border is walled off.
Europe has a wall called the Mediterranean. It still has illegal immigrants.
Thanks to intensive enforcement over the past year, illegal immigration from
Mexico is thought to have fallen by a quarter. Suppose even more spending could
cut the number of illegal entrants from 400,000 to 200,000 a year, so that 2
million arrivals could be prevented over a 10-year period. Add in an aggressive
deportation program that ejected 1 million illegals, and you are still only
scratching the surface. Even if immigration has driven down wages for high
school dropouts by 9 percent, it's hard to see how truly vicious
counter-immigration policies could drive them up by more than about 2 percent.
That simply can't be worth it. Border security does not come cheap: We could
save money on unmanned aerial drones and use it to help high-school dropouts
with a more generous earned-income tax credit. And although the concern for
high-school dropouts is welcome, it must be weighed against the aspirations of
migrants. Is it right to push native workers' pay up by 2 percent if that means
depriving poor Mexicans of a chance to triple their incomes?
Of course it isn't, and given that the total economic effect of immigration on
U.S. households is a wash, the big ramp-up in enforcement spending beloved by
immigration hawks is an egregious waste of money. But no politician is going to
say that. Candidates with good records on immigration - Rudy Giuliani, Hillary
Rodham Clinton, John McCain - are trying to avoid the issue. And the demagogues
and nativists are allowed to spout unchallenged nonsense.
Sebastian Mallaby is a fellow for International Economics with the Council on
Foreign Relations. He wrote this piece for the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 14, 2007 Monday

Immigration: New bill, better balance

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: PP EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 649 words



Minnesota takes a back seat to no one in welcoming new Americans. The Twin
Cities has become a center for Hmong and Somali immigrants because of its strong
economy, generous public services and openness to new cultures.
They came here legally as refugees and have become part of the fabric of our
community. They face many challenges, but they do not have to use false IDs to
find jobs or live in fear of being deported.
So why does the same U.S. government that helped resettle immigrants from the
other ends of the Earth seem unable to figure out an orderly, sensible way to
handle the flow of workers across our own border with Mexico? The introduction
of a new immigration reform bill in Congress this spring gives us hope.
Last month, federal immigration officials arrested 49 people in a raid on
Willmar, a west-central Minnesota town whose food-processing plants have
attracted new workers. In December, a raid on the Swift Co. meatpacking plant in
Worthington resulted in more than 230 arrests. In both cases, there were sad
stories of hardworking families ripped apart and Spanish-speaking workers afraid
of leaving their homes for fear of being sent home.
Minnesota is a long way from Mexico. But the lure of jobs in the meat-processing
industry has extended the trail of undocumented workers to such places as
Worthington, Willmar, Austin and the Twin Cities. The demand for low-skilled
work, the difficulty of controlling a 2,000-mile frontier and the easy
availability of fake IDs means there are now an estimated 11 million
undocumented residents in the U.S., including an estimated 75,000 to 100,000 in
Minnesota.
Most are good people who have come to perform difficult jobs at wages that in
some cases do not attract U.S. residents. They have become a critical part of
our economy. Yet they remain subject to arrest and deportation, forcing them
into the shadows.
We need them to come out into the sunshine. Only the federal government, which
is responsible for securing borders and determining who can enter the U.S., can
make this happen.
Congress mostly deadlocked on the issue last year, with one side interested
primarily in border security and the other seeking a way to deal realistically
with the millions working among us and helping to sustain our economy. Both
approaches are needed, we believe.
A new bill, called the STRIVE Act of 2007, sponsored by Democratic Rep. Luis
Gutierrez of Illinois and Republican Jeff Flake of Arizona, attempts such a
comprehensive approach. Key elements include:

     ·    A focus on border security, including more inspectors and
          investigators, better detection technology at the border and improved
          travel documents.




     ·    A better system for verifying the status of new employees, making it
          much harder for workers without legal documents to obtain employment
          once they get here.




     ·    A controversial system allowing undocumented immigrants who are now in
          the U.S. to obtain legal visas and, eventually, to earn permanent
          residency and citizenship, subject to background checks, payment of
          fines and fees, meeting English language requirements and paying
          taxes. Workers would have to make a "legal re-entry,'' possibly via a
          back-and-forth trip to the border.




     ·    A program to bring new immigrant workers to the U.S. for up to six
          years to work for employers who have demonstrated that they cannot
          find eligible and qualified U.S. workers.



This bill may tilt too heavily toward the workers' side and not heavily enough
toward the enforcement side. The residency provisions are already being attacked
as a too-lenient amnesty. We're certain the bill could be improved.
But if we are feeling the effects of uncontrolled immigration this far from the
Rio Grande, what must it be like for Arizona, Texas and California? The roundups
in Worthington and Willmar are a reflection of the failures of the current
system. Minnesota needs help now, and only Washington can deliver it.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday

IMMIGRATION FEES RISING

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 261 words



The cost of becoming a citizen - or a permanent resident with a green card - is
going up. The Citizenship and Immigration Services announced increases in
immigration application fees Wednesday that double the cost of citizenship and
almost triple the cost of becoming a permanent resident. Prices go up at the end
of July.
- Los Angeles Times
The cost: Bringing a foreign fiance or fiancee will jump to $455 from $170. A
green card, or permanent resident visa, will rise to $930 from $325. Citizenship
papers will increase to $675 from $330.
Why they are going up: "The reason we're raising the fees, short answer, is that
we need the money," said Emilio Gonzales, director of Citizenship and
Immigration Services. Gonzales said 99 percent of the agency's budget came from
user fees, a system Congress devised based on the principle that the costs of
citizenship should be borne by immigrants, not taxpayers. Applications have
increased but fees have not been re-evaluated since 1998.
What people are saying: Immigrant advocates and some members of Congress say the
increases could bar poorer immigrants from citizenship. Crystal Williams, deputy
director for programs at the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said:
"The fees are simply too high for the level of service provided and too high for
the affordability for a lot of the people it's supposed to be serving."
Spending the money: Officials said the additional funds would raise annual
revenue to $2.3 billion, which would be used to hire about 1,500 immigration
officers, buy computers and improve training.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday

Complaints left, complaints right, that's how we know it's a good bill

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR.

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 750 words


SAN DIEGO

As someone who has often found fault with proposed reforms to America's
immigration laws, I am frequently asked by readers to spell out exactly what
kind of changes I would support. Glad to. Especially since this is make-or-break
time. Senators will vote this week on amendments - some sensible, some dreadful
- and then hold a vote on a compromise bill.

That bill is my idea of a good reform - provided senators are willing to make
several significant changes:

     ·    Make the offering of legal status to illegal immigrants already in the
          United States contingent on the bill's enforcement "triggers," those
          conditions that have to be met before other measures in the
          legislation take place.



     ·    Establish a cutoff. I like the idea proposed by Sen. James Webb,
          D-Va., offering legal status only to those illegal immigrants who have
          lived in the United States for at least four years. More recent
          arrivals could still be deported.


     ·    For those who get legal status but are not yet U.S. citizens,
          institute a ban on receiving welfare, Medicaid or food stamps, yet let
          them continue to contribute into and eventually draw on Social
          Security.



     ·    Abandon the proposed point-based merit system for future waves of
          legal immigrants without returning to the way it is now - where family
          reunification is the guiding principle. Instead, we should base the
          whole system on labor demand and let the market drive the immigration
          process so we always have jobs for those who come here.


     ·    Subject to a higher level of scrutiny, as called for in an amendment
          by Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., individuals who seek to enter the U.S. from
          countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism.



     ·    Create a tamper-proof biometric identification card for all U.S.
          workers - not just guest workers - that must be presented to employers
          every time someone applies for a job.


Some of those changes will likely meet up with opposition from Democrats who
have expressed concern that the bill slouches toward the right.

Sure, sure. And those on the right think the bill is too far to the left. That's
how we know it's a good bill. Kyl and the other architects deserve credit for
being willing to make changes. With every refinement they embrace, it becomes
harder for critics on the right to argue that this is an amnesty bill.

Still, I don't expect any of this to make a difference to the nativists who
oppose almost any bill that grants legal status to illegal immigrants. For those
who are convinced that the United States is being invaded by foreigners, and who
fear that our society is turning into one in which our children will have to
learn how to - gasp - speak Spanish, this bill remains a nonstarter. And one
thing hasn't changed. All that the hard-liners continue to offer are three-word
slogans that fit neatly on bumper stickers. Their favorite used to be: "Deport
All Illegals." Then it was: "Close the Border." Now, a lot of them are parroting
the line: "Enforce the Law."

Here's what that's about: They insist that the federal government never got
around to enforcing the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. What the
critics don't mention is that IRCA was designed to fail because it lacked a
secure identifier such as a national ID card and provided a giant loophole for
employers who had to knowingly hire an illegal immigrant to risk paying a fine.
Little wonder that for more than 20 years, employers have played dumb and
claimed that they didn't know they were hiring illegal immigrants. Sometimes
it's lawmakers who play dumb - or at least come up with dumb proposals. Consider
the handiwork of Sens. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, Barack Obama, D-Ill., and Max
Baucus, D-Mont., who proposed an amendment that would free employers of the
obligation to verify the legal status of each worker they hire, a requirement
the sponsors consider "onerous and unnecessary."

Kudos to Homeland Security chief Michael Chertoff, who saw through this and
urged the Senate to reject the amendment, warning that it "eliminates needed
tools" without which authorities will find it difficult to enforce the law.
There's that bumper sticker again. The right-wingers insist that the law is
never enforced. If they're paying attention, they now know why. It's because we
spend so much time talking about how we're going to get tough on illegal
immigrants, even as we devise new ways to go soft on those who employ them.

Ruben Navarrette of the San Diego Union Tribune writes a nationally syndicated
column. His e-mail address is ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday

States to take on immigration role

BYLINE: BY DAVE MONTGOMERY McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 507 words


WASHINGTON - The collapse of congressional efforts to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws is expected to dramatically accelerate an effort by state and
local governments to take matters into their own hands to deal with the nation's
12 million illegal immigrants.

One result, say those on both sides of the issue, could be a patchwork of
ordinances with vastly different approaches, ranging from harsh measures that
penalize illegal immigrants to the growth of sanctuary cities that prohibit
police from questioning suspects about their immigration status.

"There's going to be a barrage of local laws dealing with immigration policy,"
said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a leading sponsor of a White House-backed
immigration bill that stalled in the Senate this week.

Senators voted against a motion Thursday to move toward a final vote on the
bill, effectively killing - at least for now - a years-long push to repair what
long has been assailed as a broken system.

Frustrated over what they perceive as federal foot-dragging, state and local
governments already have been stepping up with remedies that range from punitive
to protective, a trend that's almost certain to escalate in the void Congress
left.

"If Congress is going to abdicate its responsibilities, then states and cities
are going to jump in," said John Gay, the senior vice president of the National
Restaurant Association and the leader of a business coalition that backed the
failed Senate bill. "One argument for opposing state and local proposals is that
Congress is addressing it. We don't have that anymore."

As of April, state legislators in all 50 states had introduced at least 1,169
bills and resolutions on immigration this year, more than twice the number
introduced last year, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. Many fell by the wayside, but others became law, underscoring the
growing intolerance of federal inaction.

Oklahoma lawmakers recently enacted a law that cuts off illegal immigrants'
access to driver's licenses and many government benefits. A six-month-old
Colorado law prevents employers from hiring illegal immigrants and requires them
to affirm the legal status of employees.

Cities and towns also have gotten into the act. Farmers Branch, a Dallas suburb,
drew national attention by enacting an ordinance that bans landlords from
renting to illegal immigrants; the ban is being challenged in court. The town
council of another Texas community - Oak Point, northwest of Dallas - narrowly
approved a resolution declaring English the official language.

Other municipalities have displayed a more welcoming atmosphere. In the
Cuban-American stronghold of south Florida, two cities and Miami-Dade County
have embraced resolutions calling on the federal government to stop deporting
undocumented immigrants.

Thirty-two cities and counties in 16 states - including San Francisco, Austin,
Texas, Houston and Seattle - have adopted sanctuary policies protective of
undocumented immigrants, according to the Congressional Research Service.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 6, 2007 Friday

Immigration stalemate may leave farm work undone

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 956 words


The immigration bill that was killed by the U.S. Senate focused on the nation's
12 million illegal aliens. To many farmers, the issue is more about such people
as Thomas Murphy, an Irishman who leads a crew of combine operators from the
U.K., cutting wheat across a swath of the Great Plains.

Murphy's crew and 2,500 other skilled, legal immigrants who come from places
such as South Africa, Australia and New Zealand to cut grain, are among the most
productive workers in the U.S., gathering one-third of all the wheat in a $7.7
billion market.

That's why farmers and the companies that hire the crews say Congress's failure
to overhaul the immigration laws will heighten an already intense labor shortage
by preventing them from importing more of the English-speaking workers, even as
the need for them grows. That may lower crop yields, raise food prices and force
some growers out of business, they say.

"You'll have labor that simply doesn't get done," U.S. Agriculture Secretary
Mike Johanns said in a June 28 interview after the Senate rejected the
legislation. "We have a system that doesn't work very well, so they're really
struggling."

Great Plains wheat-cutting teams, once filled by Texas and Dakota farm kids, now
rely on foreigners for as many as half the workers who cut grain sold to Archer
Daniels Midland Co., Minnetonka-based Cargill Inc. and other companies,
according to U.S. Custom Harvesters Inc., a trade group. That echoes trends
across U.S. agriculture.

While their numbers pale in comparison to the more than 3 million, mostly
Hispanic undocumented immigrants in meatpacking, produce and food service, an
individual harvester's economic impact is far greater because of the
mechanization of the grain harvest. U.S. wheat was worth more than the
labor-intensive output of grapes, tomatoes and apples combined in 2006,
according to the USDA.

- Bloomberg NewsETF market close to saturation?

An explosion of new exchange-traded funds hitting the market is giving investors
more ways to put their money to work every day. But how many do they really
want?

ETF assets, just $130 billion at the end of 2003, had grown to $480 billion by
May.

Investment-management companies have responded to that kind of demand by burying
investors in new products. A total of 150 new ETFs were created in the first
five months of this year, according to research by the industry's two largest
competitors. That's almost exactly the number of all the new ETFs created during
all of 2006, and three times the number formed in 2005. About half of all ETFs
on the market today have arrived in the past 12 months.

Despite all the billions going into the ETF category, most new funds have
attracted little interest or money from investors. About half of all ETFs invest
$50 million or less, according to Jim Ross, who manages the ETF business at
State Street Global Advisors in Boston.

So where is all the investor money going? Mostly to the same places it has been
going for years. Products sponsored by the industry's two largest competitors,
Barclays Global Investors and State Street, control more than 80 percent of the
market. The five largest funds in a field of more than 500 ETFs control a third
of all the money invested in exchange-traded funds.

- Boston GlobeNow bereaved can comparison-shop

If you knew one store was charging $3,600 less than another for the same
product, you know where you'd be shopping.

But all too often in the funeral business, consumers aren't aware that prices
can vary so dramatically from one funeral home to the next. They don't shop
around because they either have to act quickly or they're uncomfortable with
treating a funeral like any other purchase.

Now one company, Everest Funeral Package LLC, is trying to make shopping for
funeral services easier with a first-of-its-kind online database showing prices
at nearly every funeral home in the country. For $30, consumers can
comparison-shop from the comfort of their homes for everything from cremations
to embalming services to hearses.

"With this information, purchasing a funeral starts to look like anything else
you buy. It isn't any different from buying a car or a house," said Mark Duffey,
chief executive of Everest, which is based in Houston.

Funeral homes are required by law to provide pricing information to consumers
upon request. The Everest database took six months and more than 50,000 calls to
assemble and will be regularly updated, Duffey said. He said approximately 6
percent of the nation's 20,000 funeral homes did not provide their pricing
information, and their names will be forwarded to the Federal Trade Commission.

- Boston Globe

WHAT THE...?

Paul Wolfowitz, who resigned as head of the World Bank for finagling a big raise
for his girlfriend, has landed at the American Enterprise Institute as a
visiting scholar. The suave statesman said he plans to work on development and
entrepreneurial issues, public-private partnerships and the office hotties.

The Wall Street Journal last week reported on the lavish perks available to the
families of America's chief executive officers. Nicki Mulally, wife of Ford
Motor Co. CEO Alan Mulally, defended her use of corporate jets because she
didn't feel safe driving in the automaker's company cars.

China's trade surplus with the U.S. is expected to top $100 billion for the
first half of this year. The figure from China's National Bureau of Statistics
didn't include the communist country's burgeoning business as an exporter of
salmonella.

General Motors' plan to woo younger drivers to its showrooms through a marketing
tie-in with the "Transformers" movie appears to have backfired. A large number
of 18- to 34-year-olds are showing up to see if GM cars can transform into
Hondas or Toyotas.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday

Naturalization breeds frustration 150,000 people seeking citizenship are trapped
in an FBI backlog. One man has waited three years, and he's suing.

BYLINE: BY DAVID HANNERS Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 1193 words


When he went to work for the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe, Dr. Atif Rizvi was what
the tribal community hoped for: An energetic, caring and qualified dentist eager
to serve a population that has difficulty getting good health care.

"I know over the years, we've had real problems trying to get dentists," said
Don Wedll, the band's head of long-range planning. "Having dentists work here
has been a real struggle. For awhile, we didn't have any dentists."

But Rizvi, 29, has found himself caught in a bureaucratic backlog of background
checks in his quest to become a naturalized citizen. He long ago passed the
necessary examination, and this week, he filed suit against the federal
government, saying immigration officials failed to grant or deny him his
citizenship within the 120 days set out in the law.

The dentist's case has gained congressional attention. In July, U.S. Sen.
Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., launched an inquiry into the delay and asked
immigration officials to find out why the dentist's application for citizenship
has not yet been granted.

Rizvi is not alone in waiting. A spokeswoman for the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services said Rizvi, of Baxter, is one of about 150,000 people
nationwide whose desire to become a naturalized citizen has been delayed beyond
the 120-day limit because the FBI can't do the fingerprint and background checks
fast enough.

"I know there is some frustration on the part of these immigrants who have been
waiting. But until it comes back from the FBI, we cannot move forward," said
Maria Elena Upson, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, a
branch of the Department of Homeland Security.

"Ninety-nine percent of the cases that come back from the FBI come back without
an issue," she said. "We are aware that people shouldn't have to wait an
inordinate amount of time or file a lawsuit."

Most delays are six to eight months, Upson said. Rizvi has been waiting three
years, according to the lawsuit he filed against Citizenship and Immigration
Services, the acting attorney general and the heads of the FBI and Department of
Homeland Security.

"Dr. Rizvi's case is rather compelling. He is, in all other ways, a good
candidate for citizenship. But his case is not unique, and it shows the
continuing trend of delays and a mysterious sort of reluctance to adjudicate
what we feel are deserving applications," said Areti Georgopoulos, an attorney
with the St. Paul law firm representing the dentist.

"There are obviously a lot of lawsuits filed in the federal courts on similar
claims, but the bottom line is CIS is delaying the adjudication on citizenship
applications and green card applications for folks who are otherwise cleared or
approved," she said.

Through his lawyers, Rizvi declined comment for this article. But the petition
he filed in U.S. District Court in Minneapolis, as well as other public records,
provides some details of his desire to become a U.S. citizen and work as a
dentist for the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe, a tribal community of about 2,100
people in central Minnesota about 95 miles northwest of St. Paul.

Rizvi was born in Pakistan and graduated from dental school in Karachi in
December 2000. He was admitted to the United States as a permanent resident and
applied to become a naturalized citizen in April 2004 while living in Los
Angeles.

Once a person passes an immigration examination and meets the requirements of
citizenship (which include living in the country a certain length of time and
being of "good moral character"), the government has 120 days to grant or deny
the application, or give the applicant more time to meet the requirements.

Rizvi says in the suit that officials with Citizenship and Immigration Services
interviewed him in August 2004 and told him that he passed the English language
and civics tests, but that a "background check" was still pending. A year later,
he was fingerprinted again.

He inquired again about the application in June 2006, and was again told that a
background check was pending. The following month, he was licensed to practice
as a dentist in Minnesota, according to records with the Minnesota Board of
Dentistry.

He went to work at the Mille Lacs band's Ne-Ia-Shing Clinic, the first full-time
dentist the clinic had had in quite some time, said Wedll. The largely rural -
and impoverished - area generally has difficulty attracting and keeping doctors
and dentists, and the ones assigned there by the Indian Health Service don't
often stay long, he said.

"They get assigned to reservations. They move through the system. It doesn't
necessarily always work out the best," he said. "Sometimes, we've tried to
contract with dentists in the area who have private practices, and sometimes
that doesn't work very well either because they may make more money in private
practice.

"It was just such a difficult area to try and get people," he said. "Dentists
are difficult to get."

"Being underserved or poorly served has always been an issue, since the
beginning of statehood," said Annamarie Hill, executive director of the
Minnesota Indian Affairs Council, a state agency. "I love to think we're making
some progress. But he (Rizvi) is in a population where there's an enormous
amount of need."

In July, Kimberly Hunter, the St. Paul attorney representing Rizvi, wrote to the
head of the Citizenship and Immigration Services' district office to find out
what was causing the delay and was told it was a pending background check.

In August, Rizvi was fingerprinted a third time.

In his suit, Rizvi said that doing the background checks after he passed the
initial examination "is neither appropriate nor authorized under the law." He
maintains that the government must hand down a decision in the case "no more
than 120 days from the date of the examination - in the instant case, from Aug.
16, 2004."

The dentist is asking the court to grant his naturalization application or,
short of that, order the government to expedite the pending background and
fingerprint checks and report back to the court within 60 days.

Upson, the spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said that as a
permanent resident of the U.S., Rizvi isn't in danger of being deported unless
he breaks the law.

She was unapologetic about waiting until the background checks are completed,
though.

"The fact of the matter is that we cannot grant any type of benefit, whether it
be an alien registration card or citizenship, until such time that the record
comes back clean from the FBI," she said. "Our world changed after September 11.
We have to make sure the person we're going to bestow a benefit on is a person
of good moral character and doesn't want to do us harm."

But Wedll of the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe said the delay has been frustrating
for the dentist and his patients.

"Will he be here for five months and then immigration comes and grabs him and
throws him out of here?" Wedll said. "It's got to be real unnerving for him to
be wondering from day to day, 'Am I all of a sudden going to get scooped up in a
Homeland Security event and shipped somewhere?' "

David Hanners can be reached at dhanners@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Sex ring victims get help, not time

BYLINE: BY DAVID HANNERS and RUBÉN ROSARIO Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Breaking

LENGTH: 938 words


Twin Cities police, personified in recent years by crusading cops like the late
Jerry Vick, began preaching and practicing the message a few years back.

And in a case this week, federal immigration officials did what local law
enforcement is already striving to do when it comes to prostituted women: Treat
them less like criminals and more like crime victims.

Minneapolis police, along with federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents, on Thursday dismantled a $70,000-a-month sex ring that trafficked as
many as 100 immigrant Asian women.

Four women, along with the alleged ringleader, were picked up in raids at
brothels in Bloomington, Edina, St. Louis Park and Minneapolis.

The suspected 41-year-old male sex ring operator, whose name was not released,
was jailed, pending likely federal charges. The women, however, were linked up
with Breaking Free and Civil Society, two St. Paul-based victim advocacy groups
that offer temporary housing, counseling, medical care referrals and legal
representation.

The same agencies provided similar assistance to scores of trafficked women
after another international sex ring bust in May that led to a federal
indictment against 25 alleged ring operators. Most of the women came from
Mexico, South America or Caribbean countries.

"In the old days, we would pretty much process them, lock them up and be done
with them,'' said St. Paul Police Sgt. John Bandemer, a veteran vice cop who
heads the multiagency Gerald D. Vick Human Trafficking Task Force.

The group, which took part in the busts, is named after the slain St. Paul vice
officer noted for trying to rescue girls and women from prostitution.

"ICE is part of the task force and with us on this,'' Bandemer said. "We want to
show that these women are victims or victimized in the past for someone else's
benefit. That qualifies them as victims of crime in need of help.''

The latest federal investigation began about a year ago, and Minneapolis police
became involved in July. Authorities are still trying to determine how long the
ring was operating, but they estimate it brought 100 or more women into the
U.S., usually a handful at a time.

Most women would spend five days to two weeks in the country before being sent
back home or moved to another city, said Sgt. Grant Snyder of the Minneapolis
Police Department's organized crime unit.

He said that while there is no evidence the women were treated violently,
interviews leave little doubt they were here under coercion. The cudgel held
over them was economic or related to their immigration status - or both, Snyder
said.

"What makes this particular ring so problematic - and this is the face of human
trafficking here - is you have women being exploited by an organization, and
these women are inherently susceptible to that exploitation because of their
language barriers, their financial condition and, in some cases, their legal
status in the country," Snyder said.

He said some of the women said they'd been told they were coming to the U.S. to
perform massages but that it turned into more when they arrived. And, once in
the country, they didn't have the ability to get out.

"My guess is that if you talked to these women, this wouldn't be their first
time working for an organization like this," Snyder said.

"That may speak to their level of isolation, their level of dependence on this
type of system to pay their expenses and pay their bills. These women may come
over here for the hope of domestic service jobs and get here and realize they're
either here, legally or not, and there's a certain amount of economic duress
that they're open to."

An estimated 600,000 to 800,000 men, women and children are forced into crossing
international borders each year, according to U.S. government figures. About
14,500 to 17,500 end up in the United States. A sizeable number, authorities
say, end up as workers in the sex industry.

Linda Miller, executive director of Civil Society, said the prostituted women in
the busts this week and in May "are being cared for.''

In some cases, such women, including some who may testify at trial, are granted
"continued presence." The federal reprieve allows certain victims of trafficking
to remain in the United States for up to one year so they can apply for a visa
that could lead to permanent residency. Some eligible victims include women who
convince authorities they or loved ones could be harmed if they are returned to
their home country.

Vednita Carter, Breaking Free's executive director, said she generally has been
impressed with the federal response in recent cases.

"The (ICE) agents who came over seem to get it, ask the right questions and
understand the sensitivity behind what these women go through or are subjected
to,'' said Carter, whose group provides transitional and permanent housing for
prostituted women.

Carter, though, said authorities still fail to aggressively prosecute the
customers.

"They are the ones driving the demand,'' said Carter, adding arrests of "johns''
have plunged because resource-strapped agencies are devoting most if not all
their prostitution efforts to going after traffickers.

Clientele at the brothels raided this week hardly fit the Skid Row stereotype:
mostly white, mostly upper-middle class and pulling up in "BMWs, a lot of
Benzes, a lot of Range Rovers, a lot of Lexuses, Hummers,'' Snyder noted.

Authorities questioned about 20 of the brothel patrons. Some will be charged;
some offered to testify against the alleged ringleader.

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario @pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.
David Hanners can be reached at dhanners@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 30, 2007 Sunday

Hung up on immigration, U.S. turns away top minds

BYLINE: CRAIG BARRETT

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 691 words


The European Union took a step recently that the U.S. Congress can't seem to
muster the courage to take. By proposing a simple change in immigration policy,
EU politicians served notice that they are serious about competing with the
United States and Asia to attract the world's top talent to live, work and
innovate in Europe. With Congress gridlocked on immigration, it's clear that the
next Silicon Valley will not be in the United States.

European politicians face many of the same political pressures surrounding
immigration as their U.S. counterparts, and they, too, are not immune to these
pressures. Nationalist and anti-immigrant factions in several Western European
countries have made political gains in recent elections and are widely viewed as
mainstream. Despite the hot-button nature of immigration issues, though, EU
politicians advanced the "blue card" proposal in October.

The plan is designed to attract highly educated workers by creating a temporary
but renewable two-year visa. A streamlined application process allows qualified
prospective workers to navigate the system and start working in high-need jobs
within one to three months.

This contrasts starkly with the byzantine system in place in the United States,
which increasingly threatens America's long-term competitiveness.

The United States relies primarily on two programs to augment the U.S. workforce
with highly educated, highly skilled foreign professionals. The H-1B visa is a
three-year temporary visa that can be renewed once. The employment-based (EB)
green card is the program for permanent residency. Both programs serve the needs
of U.S. employers seeking to fill job vacancies in highly skilled professions.
Extreme shortages of visas in both these programs are well documented.

H-1B visas, which are capped at 85,000 per year, are now gone in one day, with
the "winners" determined by lottery.

The EB green card program has an annual allotment of 140,000 visas; these are
allocated equally across all countries around the world, regardless of
population. The inflexible country quotas mean that professionals from countries
such as China and India are almost always at a disadvantage, finding themselves
stuck in a system - often for five to 10 years - in which they cannot seek
promotions and raises. Spouses and children count against the quota, which has
not been raised since 1990. And even though they count against the quota of
foreign workers allowed to come here, spouses are inexplicably forbidden to
work, no matter their level of education and skill.

The U.S. system forces thousands of valuable foreign-born professionals -
including badly needed researchers, scientists, teachers and engineers - into
legal and professional limbo for years. Not surprisingly, many are considering
opportunities in competitor nations - even those who have lived in the United
States for years and have graduated from U.S. universities.

To be competitive in the global economy, U.S. companies depend on specialized
talent coming out of U.S. graduate schools. These scientists and engineers are
often foreign-born, as more than half of U.S. engineering master's students and
Ph.D. recipients are international students. Yet America shuts the door on many
of these highly educated graduates, forcing them to look abroad for
opportunities - and our competitors are capitalizing on our failed policies.

EU leaders recognize that the top minds coming out of universities in the United
States and other countries can help to reinvigorate European industry and enable
it to create the next wave of businesses that drive innovation and economic
growth.

While its Blue Card proposal still requires approval by member countries, Europe
has sent a message. It intends to aggressively pursue the professional talent
necessary to compete on the global stage. The United States, on the other hand,
seems intent on driving away the very same talent the European Union is rolling
out the red carpet to welcome.

Craig R. Barrett is chairman of Intel Corp., which employs about 2,000 employees
with H-1B visas among its 86,000 workers worldwide. He wrote this column for the
Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 7, 2008 Monday

Pawlenty unveils immigration proposals

BYLINE: BY RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER Pioneer Press

SECTION: LEGISLATURE; Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 331 words


Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty today unveiled a host of executive actions and
legislative proposals on immigration.

The proposals revive the divisive and controversial immigration issue, which has
likely helped Pawlenty win elections but hasn't won him much support among
Democrats, who control the Legislature.

His legislative proposals should be familiar to those who've watched the
immigration debate in Minnesota - they are largely reworked ideas he's suggested
before. Those proposals include:

? Forbidding city policies that restrict local law enforcement from asking about
immigration status as part of routine business. Minneapolis and St. Paul
currently have such policies. Barring such a prohibition, Pawlenty wants to
reduce the state aid to cities with such policies.

? Fining employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

? Increasing the penalties for identity theft and use of fraudulent documents.

? Expanding the definition of human trafficking.

Pawlenty also announced today that he used his gubernatorial power to:

? Require the state to check the immigration status of all new employees using
the federal e-verify system, an electronic system designed by the federal
government to help employers easily check a potential employees' immigration
status.

? Strengthen the partnership between state law enforcement and corrections
officials and federal immigration officials.

Several Democrats and representatives of interest groups said his proposals are
designed to appeal to voters in the 2008 election year - not to tackle the issue
of immigration.

"If there's a new immigration proposal from the governor, it must be an election
year," said Javier Morillo-Alicea, president of Service Employees International
Union Local 26. He noted that the last time Pawlenty unveiled a collection of
immigration proposals it was 2006, when he was up for re-election.

"This is more about politics" than policy, he said.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 22, 2008 Friday

Van driver's real identity a mystery

BYLINE: BY JOHN BREWER Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; News

LENGTH: 506 words


Who is Alianiss Nunez Morales?

According to U.S. immigration officials, not the same woman who crashed her van
into a bus Tuesday and killed four students near Cottonwood, Minn.

Tim Counts, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman, said agency
investigators believe the woman was in the United States illegally and not using
her true identity.

So far, her immigration status is up in the air. She must appear before an
immigration judge for a final determination, but that can't happen until her
trial and any sentence in the bus crash case are finished.

That doesn't mean authorities aren't trying to build a case against her in the
meantime.

ICE officials found a listing for an Alianiss N. Morales in Puerto Rico and
presented a photo of the van driver to the real Morales' grandparents. They said
they didn't recognize the woman pictured.

Counts said the van driver told investigators she was from Mexico, but little
else.

"She was minimally helpful to our agents," he said.

The name Alianiss N. Morales has turned up in public records across southwest
Minnesota. Twenty-three-year-old Morales:

-- Was ticketed for a traffic incident in Montevideo in May 2006.

-- Lived in Montevideo in 2006, according to a state ID card in her name.

-- Worked at Jennie-O Turkey Store in Willmar in late 2007, according to the
company.

-- Worked at Norcraft Cabinetry in Cottonwood, according to her own testimony.

-- Lived in a Minneota mobile home, according to her and neighbors.

On Friday, a Minneota squad car barred reporters from knocking on the door of
mobile home No. 4 in Van's Trailer Park, where neighbors said the woman had
moved a couple of weeks ago.

"I've seen her a couple of times," Mackenzie Kraus said. "She kept quiet."

Another neighbor said she heard the woman lived with a boyfriend, but she had
never seen him.

Pete Van Vooren, owner of the 26-home park, said the woman was subletting her
trailer from a Cottonwood resident.

"My understanding was that she had a husband or a boyfriend or something," he
said. "I didn't even know the name of the people living there until all this
happened."

She also is reported to have lived in Cottonwood.

A spokesman for Norcraft in Cottonwood did not confirm or deny that an Alianiss
Morales worked in the cabinetry plant.

A May 2006 traffic ticket issued to an Alianiss Morales in Montevideo describes
a woman who "looks like she does not know how to drive" maneuvering through a
lawn. An officer issued her a ticket for not having a driver's license.

At her first court appearance Friday in Lyon County, the van driver talked of
having family in the region, including an aunt.

Her attorney, Manuel Guerrero, of St. Paul, said he had been retained by the van
driver's sister.

Immigration officials would not say whether they had talked to any of the van
driver's relatives.

An acquaintance from Jennie-O said the woman he worked with was nice, friendly
and religious.

"I only know her as Alianiss," said Carlos Hiraldo, of Montevideo.

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093 or at jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This photo, supplied by the Lyon County Sheriff's Office, shows
Alianiss N. Morales of Minneota, Minn., the driver of a van that struck a school
bus in rural Minnesota Tuesday, Feb. 19, who has been arrested on suspicion of
criminal vehicular operation. Four students were killed in the mishap.(AP
Photo/Lyon County Sheriff's Office via the Marshall Independent)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 25, 2008 Monday

Her name is Olga Franco. She's 24 and Guatemalan.

BYLINE: By John Brewer Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 424 words


The woman charged with killing four students and injuring 15 other people in the
Cottonwood, Minn., school bus crash last week has been identified.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Monday the van driver is
Olga Marina Franco, 24, of Guatemala. Franco initially identified herself as
Alianiss Nunez Morales, 23, of Mexico.

Lyon County authorities charged Franco with four felony counts of vehicular
homicide and two misdemeanors in the Feb. 19 crash. Witnesses said Franco was
driving a minivan that sped through a stop sign and struck the side of the
Lakeview School bus carrying 28 students. The bus then rolled on top of a
passing pickup truck.

Working with the Minnesota State Patrol, ICE first interviewed Franco on
Thursday -- the day she was arrested -- and determined she probably was in the
United States illegally and was not providing her true identity.

During the interview, Franco told ICE she was from Mexico. A fingerprint check
drew no match, meaning she had no prior contact with immigration officials.

If Franco is released from Lyon County custody for any reason, immigration
officials said, she would face deportation proceedings.

Franco's next court appearance is scheduled for April 21. Her attorney, Manuel
Guerrero, did not return a telephone call seeking comment Monday.

ICE officials had tracked down a woman named Alianiss N. Morales to Puerto Rico
last week, but an interview with the woman's grandmother determined she was not
the same woman in the Lyon County Jail.

E-mails and telephone calls from the Pioneer Press to an Alianiss N. Morales in
Chester, Conn., were not returned.

ICE would not say how it determined Franco's identity.

The investigation into the crash continues.

Authorities released Franco's identity the same day Jesse and Hunter Javens, the
13- and 9-year-old brothers killed in the crash, were buried in Cottonwood.

It was the same day Hunter would have turned 10. During the funeral in the
Lakeview School gymnasium, mourners sang "Happy Birthday" to his twin sister,
Sasha.

Clutching one of her presents, the 10-year-old girl led her parents out of the
service.

The funeral for crash victim Emilee Olson, 9, was Sunday. The funeral for Reed
Stevens, 12, is Thursday at the school.

Five people remain hospitalized since the accident. At Avera McKennan Hospital
in Sioux Falls, two students are in good condition, one student is in fair
condition, and the driver of the truck is in fair condition.

One student was in fair condition at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester.ASSOCIATED
PRESS: RAE KRUGER

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Olga Marina Franco, 24, of Guatemala.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 18, 2008 Friday

43 accused of plotting fraudulent marriages

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words


A federal grand jury has indicted 43 people in an alleged scheme to commit
marriage fraud. Thirteen of the suspects are from St. Paul, Maplewood, Oakdale,
Fridley and South St. Paul.

The government claims that U.S. citizens of Chinese descent faked engagement
photos and parties in China to persuade U.S. immigration officials to grant
their "fiances" entry into this country. The 20 subsequent marriages were shams,
federal prosecutors claim.

The two alleged ringleaders have pleaded guilty in connection with the case.
Houa Vang, 23, of St. Paul, and Le Guo Wu, 31, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty
to a single count of conspiring to profit financially from fraudulent marriages.

The two paid the U.S. citizens as much as $25,000 to participate in the alleged
scheme, authorities contend.

The 43 people were indicted this week; the indictment was unsealed Friday. David
Anderson, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Minneapolis, said 20 of
the defendants had been arrested. One of them, a Chinese national, remained in
custody, but the other 19 were each released on $25,000 unsecured bonds.

When he pleaded guilty in a federal court in St. Paul last month, Houa Vang
admitted he recruited U.S. citizens and helped them file immigration paperwork
to get Chinese nationals into the country.

An alien engaged to a U.S. citizen can get a "fiance visa" to enter the country
and get married. The U.S. citizen petitions immigration authorities to allow the
fiance -- the "beneficiary" -- to come to the U.S.

The indictment contends that to achieve this, the U.S. citizens involved in the
alleged plot would travel to China "on one or more occasions and participate in
generating false and misleading evidence purportedly demonstrating mutual
affection and intent to marry his or her beneficiary."

That evidence would include "staged photographs of the petitioner and
beneficiary together and sham engagement celebrations," the indictment alleges.

Once both are in the U.S., the couple has 90 days to get married. If they don't,
the alien must leave. If they do wed in that time, the alien has to apply to
become a permanent U.S. resident.

There were 21 U.S. citizens and 22 Chinese nationals involved in the alleged
scheme, which the indictment says goes back as far as 2002.

Each of the 43 defendants was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
marriage fraud. Thirty-nine of them were charged with aiding and abetting
marriage fraud, and four were charged with aiding and abetting visa fraud.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 18, 2008 Friday

Twin Cities / 43 accused of plotting fraudulent marriages

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


A federal grand jury has indicted 43 people, including nine from St. Paul, in an
alleged scheme to commit marriage fraud. The government claims that U.S.
citizens of Chinese descent faked engagement photos and parties in China in
order to persuade U.S. immigration officials to grant their "fiances" entry into
this country.

The 20 subsequent marriages were shams, federal prosecutors claim.

The two men who were the alleged ringleaders have pleaded guilty in connection
with the case. Houa Vang, 23, of St. Paul, and Le Guo Wu, 31, of Philadelphia,
pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiring to profit financially from
fraudulent marriages.

The men would pay the U.S. citizens as much as $25,000 to participate in the
alleged scheme, authorities contend. According to court documents, it appears
the motive was to obtain visas and legal immigration status for the immigrants.

The 43 people were indicted this week; the indictment was unsealed Friday. David
Anderson, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Minneapolis, said 20 of
the defendants had been arrested. One of them, a Chinese national, remained in
custody, but the other 19 were each released on $25,000 unsecured bonds.

When he pleaded guilty in a federal court in St. Paul last month, Houa Vang
admitted he recruited U.S. citizens and helped them file immigration paperwork
to get Chinese nationals into the country.

An alien engaged to a U.S. citizen can get a "fiance visa" to enter the country
and get married. The U.S. citizen petitions immigration authorities to allow the
fiance -- the "beneficiary" -- to come to the U.S.

The indictment contends that, to achieve this, the U.S. citizens involved in the
alleged plot would travel to China "on one or more occasions and participate in
generating false and misleading evidence purportedly demonstrating mutual
affection and intent to marry his or her beneficiary."

That evidence would include "staged photographs and sham engagement
celebrations," the indictment alleges.

Once they are both in the U.S., the couple has 90 days to get married. If they
don't, the alien has to leave. If they do wed in that time, the alien has to
apply to become a permanent U.S. resident.

The indictment alleges that from at least as far back as 2002 until last
November, Chinese nationals paid to participate in the plot, because they sought
U.S. citizenship. There were 21 U.S. citizens and 22 Chinese nationals involved
in the alleged scheme.

The St. Paul residents indicted the case were identified as Nou Chang, 24; Vang
Her, 25; Andmire Kissluv Lee, 28; Pao Vang, 24; Falamena Vue, 21; Toua Xiong,
26; Chue Yang, 24; Koua Yang, 21; and Kao Vang, 27.

Also indicted were: David Ku Vang, 29, of Maplewood; Annie Pafoua Xiong, 23, of
Oakdale; Tou Kao Xiong, 23, of Fridley; and Cheng Yang, 27, of South St. Paul.

Each of the 43 defendants was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
marriage fraud. Thirty-nine of them were charged with aiding and abetting
marriage fraud, and four were charged with aiding and abetting visa fraud.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 18, 2008 Friday

Twin Cities / 43 accused of plotting fraudulent marriages

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Crime and Court Stories

LENGTH: 509 words


A federal grand jury has indicted 43 people, including nine from St. Paul, in an
alleged scheme to commit marriage fraud. The government claims that U.S.
citizens of Chinese descent faked engagement photos and parties in China in
order to persuade U.S. immigration officials to grant their "fiances" entry into
this country.

The 20 subsequent marriages were shams, federal prosecutors claim.

The two men alleged ringleaders have pleaded guilty in connection with the case.
Houa Vang, 23, of St. Paul, and Le Guo Wu, 31, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty
to a single count of conspiring to profit financially from fraudulent marriages.

The men paid the U.S. citizens as much as $25,000 to participate in the alleged
scheme, authorities contend. According to court documents, it appears the motive
was to obtain visas and legal immigration status for the immigrants.

The 43 people were indicted this week; the indictment was unsealed Friday. David
Anderson, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Minneapolis, said 20 of
the defendants had been arrested. One of them, a Chinese national, remained in
custody, but the other 19 were each released on $25,000 unsecured bonds.

When he pleaded guilty in a federal court in St. Paul last month, Houa Vang
admitted he recruited U.S. citizens and helped them file immigration paperwork
to get Chinese nationals into the country.

An alien engaged to a U.S. citizen can get a "fiance visa" to enter the country
and get married. The U.S. citizen petitions immigration authorities to allow the
fiance -- the "beneficiary" -- to come to the U.S.

The indictment contends that to achieve this, the U.S. citizens involved in the
alleged plot would travel to China "on one or more occasions and participate in
generating false and misleading evidence purportedly demonstrating mutual
affection and intent to marry his or her beneficiary."

That evidence would include "staged photographs of the petitioner and
beneficiary together and sham engagement celebrations," the indictment alleges.

Once both are in the U.S., the couple has 90 days to get married. If they don't,
the alien has to leave. If they do wed in that time, the alien must apply to
become a permanent U.S. resident.

The indictment alleges that from at least as far back as 2002 until last
November, Chinese nationals paid to participate in the plot because they sought
U.S. citizenship. There were 21 U.S. citizens and 22 Chinese nationals involved
in the alleged scheme.

The St. Paul residents indicted in the case were identified as Nou Chang, 24;
Vang Her, 25; Andmire Kissluv Lee, 28; Pao Vang, 24; Falamena Vue, 21; Toua
Xiong, 26; Chue Yang, 24; Koua Yang, 21; and Kao Vang, 27.

Also indicted were David Ku Vang, 29, of Maplewood; Annie Pafoua Xiong, 23, of
Oakdale; Tou Kao Xiong, 23, of Fridley; and Cheng Yang, 27, of South St. Paul.

Each of the 43 defendants was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
marriage fraud. Thirty-nine of them were charged with aiding and abetting
marriage fraud, and four were charged with aiding and abetting visa fraud.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday

Obama, McCain vie for allegiance of Hispanics

BYLINE: By Lesley Clark McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: ELECTION CAMPAIGN; National

LENGTH: 327 words


WASHINGTON -- With an estimated 9.2 million Hispanic voters poised to play a
critical role in November, John McCain and Barack Obama each pledged Saturday to
make overhauling immigration laws a priority as they courted influential
Hispanic leaders who could be pivotal in key swing states like Florida.

McCain, the senator from the border state of Arizona who disappointed some
Hispanic leaders by appearing to temper his support for comprehensive
immigration law changes during the Republican primary, told the crowd that
fixing U.S. immigration policy would be a priority -- even as he acknowledged
it's not popular with some members of his own party.

"It'll be my top priority yesterday, today and tomorrow," McCain told the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in Washington.

Speaking an hour after McCain, Obama credited McCain with championing
immigration reform that included a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.
But he accused his rival of abandoning the cause as he courted the conservative
base of the Republican Party. Both rivals support a comprehensive overhaul of
U.S. immigration laws, though McCain has lately emphasized a need to first
secure the nation's borders.

"What (McCain) didn't mention is when he was running for his party's nomination,
he walked away from that commitment," Obama said. "If we are going to solve the
challenges we face, we can't vacillate. We can't shift depending on politics."

McCain told the crowd that his previous attempts at overhauling immigration laws
and giving undocumented workers a shot at citizenship failed because "Americans
didn't believe we would take care of our national security requirements."

Both candidates spoke of a need for border security, and Obama added a need to
establish penalties for employers who exploit illegal immigrants and establish a
way to bring "the 12 million who are here illegally out of the shadows . . . and
put them on a pathway to citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 8, 2008 Tuesday

McCain, Obama vow immigration change

BYLINE: By William Douglas and Margaret Talev McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 446 words


WASHINGTON -- John McCain and Barack Obama told a major Hispanic organization
Tuesday that they remain committed to passing comprehensive immigration
legislation, despite its defeat in Congress and unpopularity with voters who
prefer a heavier emphasis on border security.

Their remarks to the League of United Latin Citizens came before the 79th
convention of the 115,000-member Hispanic group, but the presumptive Republican
and Democratic party nominees, respectively, were reaching out to a broader
group: the 9 million or more Latinos who are expected to vote in November.

As the Democratic nominee, Obama should benefit more from the Hispanic vote. The
Pew Hispanic Center found last year that 57 percent of registered Hispanic
voters aligned with Democrats, while only 23 percent aligned with Republicans.

But two factors could complicate the partisan outlook.

First, in Democratic primaries, Hispanic voters preferred Sen. Hillary Rodham
Clinton, D-N.Y., to Obama, and Democrats have some concerns that traditional
tensions between Hispanic and black communities could affect the general
election.

Second, McCain's record as one who crossed his party in favor of immigration
restructuring with a path to citizenship endeared him to some Hispanic voters.
But the Arizona senator has moved in recent months to shore up his standing with
his party's base by emphasizing border security over citizenship and suggesting
that he wouldn't push as aggressively for the changes he advocated in the past.

In his speech, McCain lamented that his efforts to pass a comprehensive
immigration bill -- one that dealt "practically and humanely with those who came
here, as my ancestors did, to build a better life for their families, without
excusing the fact they came illegally" -- failed after opponents complained that
it would grant amnesty to illegal immigrants.

"Many Americans, with good cause, did not believe us when we said we would
secure our borders, and so we failed in our efforts," McCain said. "We must
prove to them that we can and will secure our borders first, while respecting
the dignity and rights of citizens and legal residents of the United States."

Obama, who spoke later, accused McCain of abandoning his own "courageous stance"
on immigration to run for the White House.

"We have to finally bring undocumented immigrants out of the shadows," the
Illinois senator said. "Yes, they broke the law. They should have to pay a fine,
they should have to learn English, they should go to the back of the line. But
we also have to put them on a pathway to citizenship. That's how we'll finally
fix our broken immigration system and avoid creating a servant class in our
midst."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 11, 2008 Saturday

Rosario: Judge saw immigration system from front lines

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Ruben Rosario; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1733 words


Joseph Dierkes knows immigration. It dominated what he did for a living. But it
also runs in his blood. His German-immigrant roots date back to his
great-great-great-grandfather.

Clemens Dierkes arrived in Galveston, Texas, from Westphalia in 1848 aboard the
passenger ship Jonathan Dethard. America was essentially an open-border nation
then, another quarter-century away from enacting its first major and restrictive
immigration law.

Clemens Dierkes became a U.S. citizen in 1854 simply by renouncing the king of
Prussia and signing a leather-bound book to that effect at the state courthouse
after he settled in St. Louis. The book is still there.

"He died (in 1889), and I went out to find his grave,'' said Dierkes, who
recently retired after 11 years as a federal immigration judge. In fact, he was
the first such sitting judge in Minnesota, which established its first federal
immigration court in 1997.

"It was in German,'' Dierkes said about finding the headstone at Sts. Paul and
Peter cemetery in St. Louis. "Even after 40 years here, he still kept his ties."

There's a lesson here about embracing the future of promise as well as honoring
heritage. Many Americans, to our shame, forget or ignore their history.

Times have surely changed since Clemens Dierkes' voyage to the Promised Land.

Becoming a U.S. citizen now takes years, and the process is significantly more
restrictive. The caseload has more than doubled since Dierkes assumed his job,
from 1,800 cases in 1998 to more than 4,000 as of this month -- split between
two immigration judges.

Dierkes enjoyed a stellar reputation among local lawyers on both sides of his
cases.

"Joe was by far the hardest-working immigration judge I ever appeared before,"
said Richard Soli, the now-retired longtime local chief attorney for the agency
we now know as Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

"Joe worked hard to pursue truth and do justice,'' Soli added. "While I did not
agree with every decision Joe rendered, I never once doubted that he was
striving to be fair and just to both sides. ... One cannot ask more of a judge."

Dierkes let some of his remaining hair down in a recent interview over coffee.
These guys rarely talk publicly, whether on the job or long retired.

Q Why is this controversial issue of immigration so important?

A Can you think of any other issue in this country where the public has such
(inconsistent) views of what should be done? People have strong ideas. They'll
say: "They're lawbreakers. Deport them all. But not old Fred here, a guy I've
known and worked with for 10 years. He's a great guy. Can't we do something for
him?"

Even those who are the strict law-and-order, remove-everybody types, you start
giving them specific cases of people -- the family that has the child who's been
in serious medical care at Children's Hospital all (his young life). They start
thinking. You really want to send them back to a Third World country? You really
want to do that? It's a tough issue.

Q As an administrative judge dealing with immigration-law issues, did you have
any discretion?

A Yes and no. People often confuse the immigration courts with the general
courts. It's an administrative court. My job, through the court, was to carry
out the directives of the attorney general. We don't have a lot of latitude in
terms of what we can do. But we have what is called cancellation of removal.
It's a remedy for people who have been here for 10 years, who have a qualifying
relative, a parent, a child, a spouse who is a U.S. citizen who can show that
their removal would pose an exceptional and extremely unusual hardship. That's a
lot tougher standard than existed 10 years ago.

Q People call me all the time and demand I answer them why people --
undocumented immigrants, particularly from Mexico -- even need a hearing and why
we don't just send them back.

A That's the law. Voluntary departure. Asylum. Torture. These are all things
that Congress has recognized as a right for people to seek relief in court. The
law gives people a right to a hearing and advance any claim for relief you are
entitled to.

Q What were the most challenging cases?

A Asylum cases are far and away the most difficult ones. In
cancellation-of-removal cases, they involve people who may have to go back to a
poorer standard of living. In asylum cases, people are claiming that something
really bad can happen to them if they are sent back. (Dierkes and his judicial
colleague, Kristin Olmundson, rejected about three of every four asylum
applications, a sliver below the national average).

We (Minnesota) have all these African cases. There are so many countries in
Africa where there are no human rights. We used to have a lot more Somali cases
than we do now. The difficulty with Somali cases is that there is no way to
check out anything. The people are basically all the same religion and general
ethnic groups, but broken down based on clan ties. So you look at the
consistency of the story. You are trying to see, particularly where you cannot
get any external verification, that they have been telling a consistent story
all along and that it matches with the conditions. If somebody comes in and
says, "Well, I'm in this clan and I'm being persecuted," and it turns out that
is the clan that used to run the government, that's a serious situation. But if
they claim they are from an area where that clan doesn't exist, that raises
questions.

Q If you had the authority to reform the immigration system, what would it be?

A The reality of the world is that we no longer have open borders. Every country
should have a right to act in its own interests. What we need here is some
intelligent discussion of what level of immigration is in the nation's best
interest. What we need is a national consensus, as much as you can get one, to
decide how many people should we grant visas to every year.

Q What's your take on the lack of discussion on immigration in the current
presidential race?

A Typically, in election years, you don't see a lot of immigration reform, at
least not before the election. What you tend to see in the off years is more
generous immigration-law procedures put into place.

Q What's the greatest satisfaction you got as an immigration judge?

A That's a tough question. One of the most fun things was to swear in citizens.
It's also knowing you are carrying out the law and hopefully doing it in a way
that people felt they were getting a fair shake. We cannot guarantee justice.
That's a divine attribute. But what you can do is hopefully give them the sense
that when they came to court, they felt they got to say their piece and were
listened to.

Q Any frustrating cases? Cases where you felt you gave that person a break only
to see them appear again before you later on?

A You can only be granted cancellation-of-removal cases one time. I had a canned
speech I gave everyone: "We're giving you a break today. But you need to
understand that if you are back here, you are going to have about a 10-minute
hearing. And all your family can come in and cry and it's not going to do you
any good. Because the law is clear. You get this relief once. So if you want to
guarantee to get deported, just go back and do what you did that brought you
here the first time."

If I had 10 such cases over the years, that would be many. A lot of people did
not come back.

Q What's the quality of legal representation in Minnesota compared to elsewhere?

A I saw a much, much lower level of attorney preparation out there (in other
places). (Dierkes occasionally was sent to Los Angeles and other areas to help
clear high volumes of cases.)

We have the group Advocates for Human Rights here. They have a clearinghouse of
private attorneys to represent people. The first week I was here, I had an
attorney from Pillsbury representing someone. There's nothing like that I have
encountered in any other city.

Q As an employee of the Justice Department, were you ever asked or pressured to
decide immigration cases one way or the other?

A Never. When I interviewed for the job, they said, "We don't care how you rule,
we just want you to rule. You can't just pull out a case and think about it for
months and months and months, with the volume we have."

Q What's changed?

A The INS (the former Immigration and Naturalization Service) was a very
reactive operation. But now they have more resources. Look at the (arrest)
booking sheets at Ramsey and Hennepin counties for relatively minor arrests and
you will now see below a "DHS (Department of Homeland Security) hold." They are
able now to go to more jails and (conduct) employer sanctions.

Q How much more complicated did your job become in recent years?

A One of the big changes that affected us was the convention against torture. It
allows us to withhold deportations -- even for people with serious criminal
convictions -- if they say they are going to be sent back to a country and be
subjected to torture.

Q Indefinitely held?

A It's possible. But not particularly likely. It's not a real status. It just
prevents you from being deported. But things change. In Chicago years ago, they
had all these Polish cases where people were saying they were members of
Solidarity. But the worst thing that happened to their cases was that Solidarity
took over the government at one point. The world changes.

Q What else would you change?

A A significant expansion of the immigration court so that cases aren't delayed
too long. Detained cases are a priority because they're on lock-up and it costs
the government money.

Q Have the news media done a good, fair or poor job covering the immigration
court?

A: Here's the problem. It's a hypertechnical process. Unless you have working
knowledge of how the process works, it's going to be damn hard covering it.
Media coverage tends to be oriented toward single cases, not just immigration
law, but across the board.

Q What's with the puffin? (Dierkes bought a stuffed replica of the bird several
years ago during a vacation in Maine. He kept it under his bench at the
Bloomington office. His mother-in-law even sewed a robe on the thing).

A I just thought that if ever I wanted to seek a quick disability from the
government, I would at a hearing pull it out and ask what the puffin thought I
should rule. Not only would they have fired me, I probably also would have been
committed to an institution.

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651 228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday

Suicide car bomber kills 8 Pakistani troops

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 808 words


DERA ISMAIL KHAN, Pakistan -- A suicide car bomber killed at least eight
Pakistani paramilitary troops Sunday in a region near the Afghan border. The
bomber rammed his vehicle into a checkpoint near the gate of the Zalai Fort,
touching off the blast as Frontier Corps troops gathered nearby, said Maj. Gen.
Athar Abbas, an army spokesman. The fort is 12 miles outside Wana, the main town
in South Waziristan, a tribal region considered a hub for al-Qaida and Taliban
fighters. South Waziristan was the site of one of two alleged U.S. missile
attacks Friday that killed 29 people, including several suspected foreign
militants, intelligence officials said. It was not immediately clear if Sunday's
suicide attack was linked to the missile strikes. Leak on Obama aunt probed

WASHINGTON -- The government is investigating whether any laws were broken in
the disclosure that Barack Obama's aunt was living in the country illegally.
Zeituni Onyango, who is from Kenya, reportedly was ordered to leave the U.S.
years ago after an immigration judge denied her asylum. Onyango is living in
public housing in Boston and is the half-sister of Obama's late father. The
Immigration and Customs Enforcement began a probe Saturday into why information
about Onyango's case was publicly disclosed, ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said.
The Homeland Security Department, which oversees ICE, cannot disclose details
about immigration status. Information about Onyango's case was disclosed and
confirmed by two separate sources, one a federal law enforcement official.
Floods in Vietnam kill 50

HANOI, Vietnam -- Much of Vietnam's capital remained under water Sunday as the
death toll from that city's worst flooding in two decades climbed to 18, state
media reported. In all, floods have killed at least 50 people across northern
and central Vietnam. Heavy rains resumed Sunday afternoon in Hanoi, where many
streets are under 3 feet of water. Across the region, state television showed
rivers at alarming levels. In Ninh Binh, water spilled over dikes, flooding
10,000 homes. "Our top priority now is to keep dikes from breaking," said Bui
Van Thang, head of the provincial government. "In the worst-case scenario,
hundreds of thousands of people will be affected."Art by Italian master turns up

DALLAS -- A painting by Italian master Sebastiano Ricci, long presumed to be
lost, has turned up in Texas after a 300-year journey. Ricci's "The Vision of
St. Bruno" will be offered by Heritage Auction Galleries on Nov. 20, where it is
estimated it will fetch at least $600,000. About a year ago, the artwork's
owners asked Heritage chairman Edmund Pillsbury to look at the painting, whose
last known documentation has been found in a 1776 catalog. Ricci, who died at 74
in 1734, worked for all of the major courts of Europe. The painting had been
passed down through the descendants of Charles Rannells, a St. Louis lawyer who
acquired it in the 1840s. Zambian president sworn in

LUSAKA, Zambia -- A veteran ruling party member was sworn in as the new
president of Zambia on Sunday promising to continue the free-market policies
that greatly expanded trade with China. Rupiah Banda, 72, had been interim
president since the death in August of President Levy Mwanawasa. He will serve
the remaining three years of Mwanawasa's five-year term. Although his populist
rival alleged voting irregularities, foreign election observers said they were
happy with the conduct of the poll. Official results showed that Banda won 40
percent of the vote and opposition leader Michael Sata secured 38 percent. Among
Banda's immediate priorities will be dealing with the collapse in the price of
copper, Zambia's main export.Detainees to testify remotely

GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -- A lawyer for six Algerians held at this
remote U.S. base say a video link will allow the terror suspects to participate
in a portion of a federal court hearing this week. Stephen Oleskey, a
Boston-based attorney, said the detainees will have a role at a Washington court
hearing about the legality of their continued detention. However, since most of
the evidence against them is classified, the Algerians will not be able to hear
or see most of the hearing, he said. Iraq cuts fighters' pay

BAGHDAD -- The Iraqi government plans to cut salaries for the estimated 100,000
members of the Awakening movement whose revolt against al-Qaida in Iraq played a
key role in bringing about the sharp fall in violence in Iraq. The Shiite-led
government assumed responsibility for the Awakening movement last month. The
U.S. military had been paying members $300 a month to carry a gun and protect
their neighborhoods against al-Qaida. Starting this month, Awakening members
will be paid about $250 a month. Awakening leaders, who had been earning $400 to
$600, will also receive the lower salary.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday

Dairy farmers turn to foreign workers;
Lodging, English lessons in exchange for 60-hour work weeks

BYLINE: CHUCK RUPNOW, Eau Claire

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 684 words


Gregorio Sanchez smiled while preparing to back up a tractor at the Waumandee
farm where he's worked periodically the past five years.

"I like it," he said, when asked about his farming experience. "It helps my
family."

Sanchez is one of a number of Mexican immigrants who have worked at
Rosenholm-Wolfe dairy farm the past eight years. It's a system that has been
successful at the 1,000-acre, 550-head farm, according to John Rosenow, one of
three owners. The farm is about 10 miles east of Alma.

"We have had to hire more and more Mexican workers because of a lack of
employees locally," Rosenow said. "Immigration has been a hot topic and there's
been lots of talk about sending them all home, but if that would happen it would
pretty much destroy my business and those of other dairy farmers, meat packing
companies, landscapers and tourism."

Rosenow, 56, co-chaired the daylong Future of Farming Forum at Northcentral
Technical College in Wausau earlier this month. The forum included presentations
by Paul Kaldjian, an associate professor of geography at UW-Eau Claire, and
Buffalo County Agriculture Agent Carl Duley. It was the last of six regional
forums in the state. The event focused on immigration and production.

"I talked as an employer of Mexican workers, something that has characterized
dairy farmers for a long time," Rosenow said. "In order for us to be
sustainable, we have to make money, and right now we need these workers."

Rosenow not only provides lodging for the workers and gives them periodic raises
but also provides language lessons. Workers start at an annual salary of about
$22,000, and it goes up to about $35,000 after five years. They work 10-hour
days six days a week, Rosenow said.

"You do what you have to do to keep the business going, and this is what we have
to do," Rosenow said.

Dairy farming accounts for about 78 percent of the county's $90 million of
agriculture receipts, according to UW-Extension records. The Rosenholm-Wolfe
farm is owned by Rosenow, his wife, Nettie, and neighbor Loren Wolfe. They also
have a compost business called Cowsmo Compost.

The farm grew and in about 1990 experienced a shortage of workers. A number of
women were hired for part-time milking chores, but when the venture went to a
24-hour-a-day operation, many part-time employees left.

With owners working 100-hour weeks and advertisements not drawing the necessary
help, Rosenow contacted a friend in Minnesota who was using Mexican labor.
Rosenow contacted a Dallas, Texas, employment company that specialized in
finding Mexican workers. Rosenow paid the company a finder's fee, and he picked
up his first Mexican employee, Manuel Perez, in October 1998.

"He worked every day for 10 hours a day to Christmas without missing a day,"
Rosenow said. "He left and I got two more, who worked over a year, and that's
continued."

Many immigrants will work a year or two before returning home, many to Vera
Cruz, to build houses. Several have returned to the farm.

"They say working on a dairy farm in the U.S. is the best job you can have
because you work every day," Rosenow said.

Rosenow said he's checked with federal agencies, including the Office of
Homeland Security, about the legality of the immigrants' documents.

"I've been told I need to make a reasonable effort to look at the documents and
if they look authentic to accept them," Rosenow said.

He acknowledges that not all of the documents of the estimated 12 million
immigrant workers in the U.S. are legal. Rosenow said his presentation lasted 10
to 12 minutes and there was plenty of debate afterward on immigration.

"That's why we need to talk about it," he said. "We're not facing reality. The
baby boomers are getting older, and there is a labor shortage. Until officials
allocate more immigrants into the country, there will be more illegals."

Rosenow said he, Duley and local teacher Shaun Duvall started a program called
"Puentes," which is Spanish for bridges. It provides weekly Spanish lessons to
the English-speaking employees and English lessons to the Spanish-speaking
employees.

"It's good work," Sanchez said. "I am lucky."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday

ICE agents raid Worthington plant, five others

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON AND MARICELLA MIRANDA, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 863 words


Federal immigration officials staged a surprise raid at a Worthington
pork-processing plant on Tuesday, terrifying immigrant workers and bringing
company operations to a standstill.

Several hundred workers are believed to have been arrested in the Worthington
raid, one of six raids across the country of Swift & Co. plants.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said the workers were being
arrested on administrative immigration violations and, in some cases, criminal
arrest warrants stemming from a nearly yearlong investigation.

ICE chief Julie L. Myers told reporters in Washington that agents had uncovered
a scheme in which illegal immigrants and others had stolen or bought the
identities and Social Security numbers of possibly hundreds of U.S. citizens and
lawful residents to get jobs with Swift & Co.

"On a purely human level, there are hundreds if not thousands of people in
Worthington who are just terrified," said Bruce Nestor, a Minneapolis
immigration attorney who was heading to Worthington, about 180 miles from the
Twin Cities, to help the workers and families affected by the raid.

Nestor said that when Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials arrived at
the plant Tuesday morning, workers were prohibited from leaving and neither
union representatives nor company officials were given access to them.

Nestor also said that workers who were arrested were transported to Sioux Falls,
S.D.

Worthington Public Safety Director Mike Cumiskey said he was given notice Monday
that the 7:30 a.m. raid was planned, but that his department was not directly
involved in it.

He said their job was to try to help those affected as best they could by
sharing information.

"For the people that this is happening to today, short of losing a loved one,
this is probably the worst day of their life," Cumiskey said.

The superintendent of the Worthington School District said school officials are
concerned that children will go home to find their parent or parents gone.

"I'm hoping there's a list of names -- or ways for us to check on these kids,"
Superintendent John Landgaard said.

The Swift plant in Worthington employs about 2,300 workers, who slaughter and
process about 16,000 hogs a day, Cumiskey said.

Alondra Espejel, of the Minnesota Immigration Freedom Network said, "A lot of
members will be affected by those raids."

She said observers in Worthington report there are 10 buses at the plant,
estimated to fit 400-500 people and the building is surrounded by ICE agents.

"They are detaining people based on where they work and what they look like;
they are not detaining people based on individual situations; they have detained
permanent residents,'' she said.

Espejel also said the network has received reports of people going into hiding.
"There are people that will not leave to go to school,'' she said. "People are
hiding in their basements. People are seeking asylum in their churches."

The other five Swift processing facilities raided were in Greeley, Colo.; Grand
Island, Neb.; Cactus, Texas; Hyrum, Utah; Marshalltown, Iowa. With the
Worthington plant, they represent all of Swift's domestic beef processing
capacity and 77 percent of its pork processing capacity.

No charges had been filed against the company.

"Swift has never condoned the employment of unauthorized workers, nor have we
ever knowingly hired such individuals," Swift & Co. President and CEO Sam Rovit
said in a statement.

Since 1997, Swift has been using a government pilot program to confirm whether
Social Security numbers are valid. Company officials have previously said one
shortcoming may be the program's inability to detect when two people are using
the same number.

Hundreds of workers' family members gathered outside the plants, with some
trying to deliver documentation to relatives inside. In Greeley, cars lined the
street leading to the plant.

One sheriff's deputy described the scene outside the Utah plant as a circus.

"They've got three buses, a bunch of transport vans, a lot of cars and 150 or so
agents," chief Cache County deputy David Bennett said.

Bennett said ICE officials didn't notify the sheriff's department about the
raid. "They didn't ask for our help," he said. "We were lucky to find out."

At Grand Island, Police Chief Steve Lamken said he refused to let his officers
take part in the raid.

"When this is all over, we're still here taking care of our community and if I
have a significant part of my population that's fearful and won't call us then
that's not good for our community," he said.

Swift & Co. describes itself as an $8 billion business and the world's
second-largest meat processing company. The Hyrum plant can process up to 2,200
cattle a day, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Hyrum
city Administrator Brent Jensen says that plant employs more than 1,000 people.

In Washington, Myers said ICE had uncovered several different rings that may
have provided illegal documents to the workers. Some immigrants had genuine U.S.
birth certificates, Myers said.

ICE officials at the plants in Greeley and Worthington said the total number of
arrests might not be released until Wednesday.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

Swift & Co. attempted to block plant raids;
Meatpacker argued in court that action would hurt business

BYLINE: CHRISTINE TATUM, Denver Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 408 words


DENVER -- For nearly two weeks, Swift & Co. officials fought to block an
impending immigration raid they knew was coming.

According to newly unsealed federal court records filed in Amarillo, Texas, the
company sought an injunction to stop U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
from raiding six of its plants Dec. 4.

On Dec. 7, the company's request was denied. Tuesday, the raids went forward.

While waging the court fight, Swift scrutinized its workers' employment
documents. Nearly 400 Swift workers nationally "simply disappeared" because of
that review, said Don Wiseman, the company's general counsel.

"We never fired anyone," he said. "We didn't have to."

Swift officials said Wednesday they never questioned why ICE would want to rid
the Greeley, Colo.-based meatpacking company of illegal workers, but they
worried about how investigators' planned to round up employees and the impact
that roundup would have on Swift and its operations.

"We asked ICE repeatedly how we could work with them to make this happen as
unobtrusively as possible," Wiseman said. "But they made it clear they were just
going to show up and conduct a one-day raid. That was just unacceptable to us.
We have a business to run, and we knew there was a better way to do this."

On Wednesday, ICE officials criticized the company for essentially tipping off
hundreds, and potentially thousands, of illegal workers to a 10-month
identity-theft investigation that resulted in 1,282 arrests nationwide.

Swift's internal investigation "was well after the time that the company knew
that there was a significant problem in their work force," said Julie Myers,
assistant secretary of Homeland Security for ICE. "And we regretted that they
went ahead and took that action, and they did not talk to us...."

But a letter from ICE to Swift officials obtained by the Denver Post and dated
Oct. 25 shows that the company was free to remove illegal workers.

Before and during its legal battle in Texas, Swift took aggressive steps to
screen its work force. After learning in the spring of the probe conducted by
ICE and the Department of Justice, the company hired a well-respected
immigration and border-security consultant to help it identify illegal employees
and avoid hiring new ones.

But Wiseman said it wasn't until after the company received that October letter
from ICE that Swift developed a plan to question its workers. The internal
review prompted the departure of the 400 employees.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

Worthington plant will likely have hard time filling positions;
Region's labor markets tight; raid could scare off other immigrants

BYLINE: JULIE FORSTER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 706 words


Swift & Co. will have a tough time replacing ousted immigrant workers at its
hog-processing plant in Worthington, Minn., given tight labor markets and the
chilling effect of the arrests on other immigrants.

Immigration authorities raided six Swift plants in six states Tuesday, detaining
about 1,300 workers, including 230 who worked in Worthington. The company said
that after suspending production Tuesday, operations at all six facilities
resumed Wednesday but at reduced output.

Before the raid, the company employed more than 2,000 workers at the Worthington
plant.

The meat processing industry relies heavily on immigrants. In Worthington, the
jobs pay between $9 and $12 an hour. It is labor intensive -- workers kill the
hogs and then cut up the carcasses.

In southwestern Minnesota, immigrants have played an increasingly important role
meeting workforce needs. But even with an influx of immigrants, Minnesota meat
plants find it difficult to find workers. Even before the raid, Swift was
interviewing about 30 applicants a day, two days a week, to find production line
workers.

"I suspect it will present a serious challenge to the company," said Oriane
Casale, a state researcher who studies job trends.

Put another way, "Most of the people in southwest Minnesota are sufficiently
employed," said Joseph Amato, a retired dean of rural and regional studies at
Southwest Minnesota State University in Marshall.

Just how tight is the area's labor market?

According to preliminary results of a business outlook poll from the Federal
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 53 percent of companies in greater Minnesota find
it challenging or seriously challenging to find workers. That percentage of
pessimistic responses has been growing in recent years.

"With hundreds of workers being removed from a manufacturing facility in a city
of 11,000, it will be very difficult to replace those workers," said Toby
Madden, a regional economist for the Federal Reserve Bank.

The cry for workers is particularly loud in the region, where unemployment is
the lowest.

In October, Nobles County, home of the Swift plant, posted a 2.9 percent
unemployment rate compared with 3.3 percent for the state and 4.1 percent for
the nation. The local economy has a strong food and agricultural manufacturing
base, with manufacturing as the region's top employee industry, accounting for
nearly one in every five jobs, according to the Minnesota Department of
Employment and Economic Development.

In October, just 175 of Worthington's 11,000 residents were listed an
unemployed. While the area has plenty of jobs, pay is generally low.

At Swift, the United Food and Commercial Workers union largely represents the
line workers who do the dirtiest work and the most physically demanding.

"I'll bring a carload of people down there tomorrow if anyone is looking for
work in a packing plant," said Don Seaquist, president of UFCW Local 789, which
represents workers at packing plants in Long Prairie and South St. Paul. "But
these aren't particularly desirable jobs for a white male living in the
suburbs."

David Wilson, an immigration lawyer in Minneapolis, said the raid could prove to
be "crippling" for the company because even documented immigrants with the
proper identification might not want to stay around or apply in the first place.

Swift officials did not return phone calls Wednesday. In a press release, the
Greeley, Colo.-based company said output is expected to be below normal levels
in the short term but that it anticipates no long-term impacts to operations.

Swift is one of two major pork processors in the state. Together with a Hormel
plant in Austin, the plants account for 50 percent of the pork processing in the
state. Approximately 34,000 hogs are killed at the plants each day. Like all
meat-processing plants, they operate under a model that favors the heaviest hogs
going through a production line at the fastest rate possible.

A key question facing Swift: "How deep is that pool of workers available to take
the positions that were there," said Brian Buhr, a livestock economist with the
University of Minnesota. "I don't suspect there are a lot of people waiting
around for those positions."

Julie Forster can be reached at jforster@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday

Raids illustrate wreckage of our immigration system

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 760 words


The image of empty buses and federal agents pulling up to one of Minnesota's
biggest manufacturers and hauling away hundreds of immigrant workers is one we
should not soon forget. It is symbolic of everything that is bad about our
wreckage of an immigration system.

On Tuesday morning, federal immigration agents raided a huge Swift & Co. pork
slaughterhouse in Worthington, part of simultaneous raids on Swift plants in six
states. A total of 1,282 workers were arrested nationwide, including 230 people
at the Worthington plant.

"We have determined there may be hundreds of U.S. citizens and legal immigrants
whose identities have been stolen by people who may be working at these Swift
plants,'' Tim Counts, public affairs officer for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, told the Worthington Globe newspaper.

On Wednesday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said: "Enforcement
actions like this one protect the privacy of innocent Americans while striking a
blow against illegal immigration.''

All but 5 percent were charged with immigration violations, probably meaning
that they are in the U.S. illegally or do not have legitimate work documents.
The others were charged with the crimes that provoked the raid -- some form of
identity theft.

Two immediate reactions come to mind. Both should be strenuously resisted.

The first is that the federal agents are wrong for harassing people guilty
mainly of doing work U.S. citizens won't do. The second is that it is about time
we began rounding up those who flout our immigration laws and sending them home.

We can't blame federal agents for enforcing the law. In this case, we do not yet
know how extensive the identity crimes were. We do know that agents have tried
to focus on serious crimes among immigrants -- not the mere act of being here
illegally.

But neither can we see how a strategy of raids and roundups will succeed. This
is where the wreckage of our policy comes in.

We have a porous, 2,000-mile southern border. We have an insatiable demand for
unskilled workers -- not just to kill hogs, but to roof houses and wash dishes
and clean hotel rooms and landscape the suburbs. The U.S. economy wants these
workers. Some immigrants want the work desperately enough to risk the dangerous
border crossing.

The U.S. has not developed a uniform, secure identifying document. So we have a
brisk trade in fake documents of all sorts. We have a workers' ID system that is
riddled with so many loopholes that employers who want to do the right thing
have a hard time separating the legal from the illegal. We even have civil
rights laws that inhibit employers from checking too closely. All these problems
have been documented in numerous government studies.

And most importantly, we have entire communities -- Worthington is a good
example -- that have been remade by immigrant workers. Local officials have
tried to be both welcoming and wary -- welcoming of those who come to better
themselves, and wary of those who commit crimes or prey on the innocent.

Local police and municipal officials bear the brunt of our wrecked federal
policy. They must try to figure out who people are when they get in an accident
or are crime victims or land in the hospital. They know the local economy and
school system depend on the immigrant workers and that most workers do not come
to cause trouble. But they also suspect that there is a lot of winking and
nodding among workers, employers and the federal bureaucracy to make the system
work.

We do not know how the Guadalupe Day raid in Worthington will turn out. Families
who took a chance on their ability to stay indefinitely may be suddenly
uprooted. American-born children may have to follow their parents back to Mexico
or Guatemala despite having U.S. citizenship.

Whether the employer will pay as heavy a price as the worker remains to be seen.
Chances are good that the plants will rev up again and new workers will arrive
to replace the old ones.

In his speech to the nation in May, President Bush said: "It is neither wise nor
realistic to round up millions of people, many with deep roots in the United
States, and send them across the border.'' He called for stronger border
security and a path to citizenship, with penalties and obligations, for
undocumented workers who have made their lives in the U.S.

It's a realistic and comprehensive plan. Worthington and other immigrant-rich
communities can't clean up the federal wreckage. They need help. The buses at
the Swift plant gate should serve as a call to action when the new Congress
convenes next month.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 26, 2007 Monday

Dems prepare their vision of who gets into the U.S., who gets to stay;
Hearings begin this week on the dilemmas the GOP faced last year

BYLINE: JENNIFER A. DLOUHY, Hearst Newspapers

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 712 words


WASHINGTON -- Congressional Democrats will start writing legislation soon that
aims to put millions of illegal immigrants on a path toward citizenship.

The process begins Wednesday, when the Senate Judiciary Committee holds its
first hearing this year on "comprehensive immigration reform." The panel is
expected to begin voting on specific legislation next month, and the full Senate
is likely to take up the issue in April.

But immigration specialists say the Democrats face some of the same obstacles
that tripped up Republicans last year when they tried to produce a broad
immigration bill.

GUEST WORKERS

Should there be a guest-worker program -- and should it be temporary?

President Bush envisions visas that would allow foreigners to enter the U.S.
legally and work in jobs that American employers have trouble filling with the
domestic work force.

The AFL-CIO, the nation's largest federation of unions and a traditional backer
of Democratic congressional candidates, opposes such a plan.

John Sweeney, president of the labor group, contends a guest-worker program
would hurt American workers by encouraging employers to hire foreigners "at
reduced wages and diminished working conditions."

But other labor unions, including the 1.8 million-member Service Employees Union
International and UNITE HERE, which represents workers in the apparel and food
service industries -- support a new guest-worker visa. They also want foreigners
who use those visas to have a chance at for citizenship.

Employer groups supporting a guest-worker program, such as the Chamber of
Commerce and the National Restaurant Association, want to make sure it is big
enough to make up for the estimated 500,000 foreigners who enter the U.S.
illegally each year. Without a guest-worker program, they argue, foreigners
still will try to enter the U.S. illegally to find work.

PATHS TO CITIZENSHIP

What should be done with the existing illegal immigrants? Immigration advocates
want the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the U.S. to become
legalized and eventually be eligible for citizenship. Conservative Republicans
oppose anything that smacks of amnesty for lawbreakers already in the U.S.

Key lawmakers are expected to scrap a complex three-tiered plan for dealing with
illegal immigrants that passed the Senate last year.

That measure divided illegal immigrants into three groups, based on the amount
of time they had lived in the United States. Under that plan, the vast majority
of illegal immigrants would be able to stay and work in the country and
eventually apply for citizenship after proving their U.S. work history.

Immigration advocates said this three-pronged approach was too convoluted and
open to abuse. Illegal immigrants would have a tough time proving their work
history, and document fraud would be rampant, immigration advocates warned.

TARGETING EMPLOYERS

How to crack down on the employers of illegal immigrants? Current law punishes
employers with fines or time in jail for "knowingly" hiring undocumented
workers. This law is rarely enforced.

A new immigration law likely would boost fines for hiring illegal workers,
possibly to $500 or more for the first offense -- up from $250 currently -- and
$6,000 for subsequent violations. Some conservative lawmakers say that still
isn't enough.

Employers would be required to check a federal database to instantly verify
whether potential employees are eligible to work in the United States.

Right now, employers can claim they did not hire illegal workers "knowingly,"
because the paper-based system for verifying workers' legal status is open to
abuse and fraud.

Business advocates worry the verification system won't have accurate and timely
information. Privacy advocates warn about the dangers of amassing so much
information in a single database.

Democrats and Republicans are acutely aware the outcome of the immigration
debate on Capitol Hill could have an impact on the 2008 elections. Hispanics
make up the fastest-growing bloc of American voters, and both parties are eager
to win them over.

Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a group that
aims to combat discrimination against Hispanics, said, "We want to be treated
with dignity and won't stand to see the debate hijacked by xenophobes."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

Twin Cities / Female worker's suit can proceed

BYLINE: BY SHANNON PRATHER Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Ramsey County

LENGTH: 626 words


A female worker's immigration status doesn't bar her from a filing a sexual
harassment lawsuit, a federal judge in Minneapolis has ruled.

Maria Torres, a cook at the Perkins Restaurant and Bakery in St. Paul's Midway
neighborhood, accused her boss of making sexually suggestive remarks, touching
her and showing up unannounced at her house. The U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission and Torres filed a harassment and retaliation lawsuit,
alleging Perkins started investigating her immigration status only after she
complained.

Attorneys for Perkins tried to have the case dismissed, arguing her suspected
status as an undocumented worker barred her and the EEOC from suing.

U.S. District Judge John Tunheim refused to throw out the suit, finding that "a
ruling that undocumented workers could not pursue civil rights claims on their
own behalf would likely chill these important actions."

The EEOC praised Tunheim's decision as upholding important protections for
workers, but an attorney for Perkins said it places companies in a precarious
spot.

"This is a very important decision," said Deborah Powers, an EEOC attorney based
in Milwaukee. "It reaffirms a position we've held for years. Immigration status
is not relevant to the case as a whole and does not preclude anyone from
bringing an action under Title VII (of the Civil Rights Act)."

Title VII prohibits employment discrimination based on race, color, religion,
sex or national origin. Neither the U.S. Supreme Court nor the U.S. 8th Circuit
Court of Appeals has ruled on the issue of immigration status and Title VII
protections.

According to the lawsuit, Torres was subject to sexual comments and
inappropriate touching that culminated with her boss, Mario Centeno, showing up
at her home for her child's baptism. Torres felt humiliated by the comments and
suffered stress, headaches and loss of appetite, according to the suit.

When Torres, who is married, rebuffed Centeno's advances, he treated her more
severely than the other cooks, saying to her, "If you won't take it the good
way, then it will be the bad way," according to the suit.

Centeno also threatened to report Torres as an undocumented worker if she
complained, according to court documents. Torres' immigration status is unknown,
Powers said.

Torres told senior managers at Perkins about the harassment April 2, 2004. She
also told managers she had delayed reporting the harassment because Centeno had
threatened to turn her in to immigration authorities.

Managers reprimanded Centeno. They also told Torres that her immigration papers
were inadequate and fired her April 9, 2004 - within a week of her reporting the
harassment, the EEOC alleges.

"It was only after she complained about sexual harassment that Perkins starting
making allegations about her documentation. That sure looks like retaliation,
and we expect that the trial in the case will bear that out," Jean Kamp, an
attorney for the EEOC based in Chicago, said in a written statement.

Perkins attorney Tad Selzer said the restaurant promptly investigated the
harassment allegations but also felt compelled to look into Torres' immigration
status when she told managers she waited to complain because she feared
deportation.

However, the EEOC alleges in court papers that Perkins hired Torres "believing
her to be undocumented and not legally permitted to work in the United States."

Selzer denied that Torres was ever fired, saying managers agreed to put her back
on the work schedule when she got her documentation straightened out.

"We're in an era where employers are getting raided and employers are fined for
knowingly employing undocumented workers," he said.

The case could be set for trial.

Shannon Prather can be reached at sprather@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5452.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

Green-card fight brewing

BYLINE: BY JENNIFER BJORHUS Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 694 words


Frustrated by an apparent government foul-up in green-card applications, a
number of Twin Cities professionals say they're considering joining a class
action lawsuit a national immigration group plans to file soon.

It's not known how many skilled foreign workers here were caught up in the
alleged green-card snafu, the apparent result of some sort of miscommunication
between the State Department and a backlogged U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS).

St. Paul immigration attorney David Wilson estimates that at least 1,000 skilled
foreign workers in the Twin Cities joined a stampede last month to apply for
permanent residency by July 2 after the State Department suddenly opened a
window of opportunity on June 12. On July 2, the State Department abruptly
reversed its position. The USCIS rejected the applications saying the yearly
limit had already been met.

The government can issue about 140,000 employment-based green cards each fiscal
year. Unused visas can't be rolled over to the next year.

The American Immigration Law Foundation in Washington, D.C., said Monday it will
file a class action lawsuit "shortly" against the two government agencies to try
to force them to approve the rejected petitions. A USCIS spokeswoman Monday
would only say that she would not describe the situation as a foul-up. A State
Department spokeswoman on Monday blamed the situation on poor communication
between the agencies. Both said they won't discuss pending litigation.

Locally, immigration attorneys said the mix-up is symptomatic of the country's
broken immigration system. Loan Huynh, an immigration attorney at Fredrickson &
Byron in Minneapolis called it "a fiasco." Huynh said she heard of doctors
gouging desperate applicants, charging an additional $200 to $300 for exams.

"To have them reject all of them is just outrageous," Huynh said.

"I think it affected every major employer in the Twin Cities," said Wilson,
president of the local branch of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
"It tells people: We're not taking you seriously. Complying with the law doesn't
have any value."

To Shiva Elayedath, a 34-year-old food scientist at General Mills, it means
still more limbo. Elayedath, from India, works on a temporary H-1B work visa due
to expire next May. He said he almost couldn't believe it when he learned about
the State Department's June 12 Visa Bulletin. The monthly notice announced the
door was open for skilled foreign workers in the U.S. on a range of temporary
work visas to take the final step to permanent residency - filing form I-485,
the application to adjust status.

Elayedath scrambled to arrange the necessary medical exams, get his parents and
in-laws in India to FedEx documents and work with his attorney to fill out
mounds of paperwork. Getting his green card meant his wife could finally get a
job, he said, and they would have some security in deciding such matters as
whether to start a family.

It all slammed shut when the government about-faced July 2.

"It's just feels like someone pulled a dirty trick on you," Elayedath said.
"There's been a lot of discussion on line about what to do next. Everybody's
planning to join the lawsuit."

Elayedath said he hasn't made a decision, and wants to consult his employer
first.

Immigration Voice, a volunteer nonprofit that primarily exists online,
representing skilled foreign workers applying for green cards, is supporting a
flower campaign to protest what it called a "flip-flop." Borrowing a nonviolent
move from a popular Indian film, it is urging members to send white flowers to
USCIS director Emilio Gonzalez. The protest blooms are to arrive at immigration
headquarters today.

Nadine Wettstein, director of the legal action center at the American
Immigration Law Foundation, said she suspects "several tens of thousands" of
visa holders may be eligible for the class action lawsuit. Wettstein said she's
been getting a huge positive response from attorneys with potential plaintiffs
ready to sign on.

"I've never seen this much outrage and interest in a legal case as this one,"
Wettstein said.

Jennifer Bjorhus can be reached at jbjorhus@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2146.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday

Clock ticking for guest workers

BYLINE: BY JENNIFER BJORHUS Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Business

LENGTH: 1106 words


For eight months, Northway Irrigation's underground sprinkler systems are a hot
commodity.

Even in July, when work slows, the Circle Pines company has six crews across the
Twin Cities working 7 a.m. to supper. Golf courses, ball fields, hospital lawns
and suburban yards all need water if they're going to stay green.

To handle it all, Northway hires foreign guest workers who come for the job on
H-2B seasonal work visas and then head home again as winter sets in. It's a
crucial program, said owner Rick Walter, because he cannot recruit enough
reliable locals willing to do the back-breaking, relatively low-pay work for
only part of the year. Seven of his staff of 31 this year are H-2B workers from
Mexico. Several have returned to Northway over the years.

"They just don't miss a day," Walter said. "They'd work Sunday if I asked them."

Unfortunately for Walter and a host of other employers across Minnesota, the
H-2B program is set to expire, again, on Sept. 30, known by some supporters as
"H-2B Disaster Day."

With the death this month of the country's immigration bill, which sought to
morph the H-2B program into a larger guest-worker system, small businesses are
stumping for the "Save our Small and Seasonal Business Act of 2007." The bill
would extend the national visa program for three to five years and continue an
exemption allowing seasonal workers to return to the U.S. each year without
counting toward the annual H-2B visa cap of 66,000.

Employers such as Walter are all for it. Hank Lavery, president of Save Small
Business, a nonprofit group of businesses in Bethesda, Md., pushing the
legislation, said there's been no organized opposition to it, even from labor
groups that generally oppose guest-worker programs. Both Minnesota senators
support it.

So does Emanuel Ortiz. The uncertainty around the program makes him a bit
nervous. Ortiz, 24, helps support his mother, sister and nephew in Mexico City.
His girlfriend is there, too, and he needs money to get married, he said. He
works for Northway Irrigation each spring, summer and fall, and earns $15.48 an
hour. That's a handsome sum, considering he could earn only $300 a month, tops,
back home, or less than $2 an hour, he said.

"In Mexico, we don't have work," Ortiz said, standing in the dirt surrounding a
large new house overlooking Lake Johanna in Arden Hills. The day's job:
installing 1,200 feet of pipe and 60 sprinkler heads.

But the H-2B program also has its critics. The Laborers' District Council of
Minnesota and North Dakota, a union group representing construction workers and
landscapers, opposes any type of guest-worker program, including H-2B, that
doesn't include strong worker protections. With workers so beholden to their
employers, there's just too much room for abuse, said Jessica Loomen, the
union's staff attorney.

"Workers are relying on their employers for their legal right to be here, and
that leads to exploitation and abuse," Loomen said. She said she doesn't know of
any specific instances of H-2B abuse in the Twin Cities.

There's also the needling problem of the program creating a disincentive to hire
locals, she said. The Laborers International Union said it opposes extending the
H-2B program in principle but is waiting to see how the bill proceeds.

Just how many H-2B workers are clocking in around Minnesota this summer isn't
known, but there's clearly a sizable cadre. They are but one part of a small
army of foreign guest workers keeping the state's economy humming, from students
on J-1 visas staffing summer camps to farm hands on H-2A temporary farm-worker
visas who haul in Minnesota's harvests.

Most H-2B seasonal workers come from Mexico, South America or Eastern Europe.
The work is manual labor, jobs without health insurance that pay from $7.15 an
hour to as high as $27 an hour at Northway, based on interviews with local
employers.

They change bed sheets at Brainerd resorts, grow plants for Bachman's, muscle
boulders into place for Minnetonka-based Keenan & Sveiven Landscape
Architecture. They're out at dawn at Rush Creek Golf Club in Maple Grove, mowing
the fairways and greens, filling in divots and raking away any animal footprints
in the course's 75 sand traps.

"They are a huge part of our success," said Rush Creek General Manager Ed Money.

Some employers say seasonal hiring is so tough that they might not be in
business without the H-2B.

"It's been a godsend to us because we can't seem to find enough people willing
to do that work," said Tim Sveiven, co-owner and vice president of Keenan &
Sveiven.

In fact, the only gripe local employers seem to have with the program is that
it's just not big or fast enough. They'd take more H-2B workers if they could
get them. Employers complain that the cap is artificially low and that the long
and unpredictable processing time is a major headache.

Minneapolis-based landscape firm Bachman's Inc. was approved for 43 H-2B visas,
but for various reasons, only 23 workers could come this year to help with
nursery and field operations, President Dale Bachman said.

Even with the H-2B crew from Mexico, "we still fall short," Bachman said. The
company uses temp agencies to try to fill the gap. Wages for all seasonal
workers, including H-2B at Bachman's growing range south of Lakeville and
landscaping operations range from $8.80 to $11.95 an hour, depending on
experience.

Local employers insist they've followed all the Labor Department rules for
advertising the jobs locally before applying for the visas. Some, such as
Bachman's, say they just don't get enough applicants. Others say they don't get
enough good ones. It's not unusual for local workers to just up and quit,
several employers said. H-2B employees are eager to work and toil longer and
harder, they said.

Keenan & Sveiven typically employs nine to 10 H-2B workers each year, about a
third of their peak work force of 32. Pay ranges from $8 to $12 an hour. They've
had some fumbles with local hires, said Donna Robling, a company horticulturist.

"They come to work one day and they don't come the next," Robling said. "We had
one that said he was going to get cigarettes and never came back."

Money, the Rush Creek general manager, tells similar stories. Weekend work is no
problem for the 10 to 14 H-2B workers he puts on the payroll each year, he said.

"They don't have to worry about going to the cabin on the weekends," Money said.
"They want to work a bunch of hours."

Money said he's tried using temporary agencies but that those employees lacked
the necessary training. And they charged more, $13 to $14 an hour.

Jennifer Bjorhus can be reached at jbjorhus@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2146.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (No caption with photo)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 5, 2007 Monday

Fired bakery workers cry foul

BYLINE: BY JULIE FORSTER Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 647 words


Immigrant workers who lost their jobs at an Eagan bakery-goods manufacturing
plant because they failed to prove their legal right to work in the U.S. said
Monday the company really wanted to replace them with cheaper temporary workers.

The workers, who met with reporters Monday, called on Minnetonka-based Best
Brands Corp. to meet with them about human-rights issues at the plant.

At least 60 workers at Best Brands were fired in September following a company
audit of the legal status of its work force. The workers, whose Social Security
numbers or names could not be verified, had been given time to contest the
discrepancies.

The federal Immigration Reform and Control Act mandates that employers verify
the employment eligibility of workers. It's against the law to knowingly hire or
continue to employ unauthorized workers.

Four workers who said they were speaking on behalf of the group said at a news
conference that the company fired them to save money by replacing them with
lower-paid temporary workers, a charge the company denies.

"They escorted us to the doors to kick us out of the plant, as if we were
criminals," said Ulises Duay, 28, of Eagan, a Mexican immigrant who worked at
the plant for six years. His mother, Leticia Duay Morales, who is 51, and had
worked for the company for 10 years, also was fired.

Joe Porto, vice president of human resources for Best Brands, said the company
launched an audit in August after it was told of identification discrepancies by
the Social Security Administration. The audit found problems with documents of
some workers.

He said company officials gave the workers several days to provide proper
documentation. Those that could not were fired. "They had not provided the
necessary documentation to, in essence, prove their eligibility to work within
the United States of America," Porto said.

The company estimated 60 to 70 workers lost their jobs; the workers maintain as
many as 100 were affected.

About 300 people work at the plant. In order to meet production deadlines,
temporary workers were hired to replace the fired workers as the company works
on recruiting and hiring permanent employees with full pay and benefits. The
long-term goal is to hire permanent workers, Porto said.

Former workers decried the company, saying it used immigration status as a
pretext to cut people who were in some cases making more than $16 per hour and
receiving health benefits. They claim the company simply wanted to cut costs by
replacing them with temporary workers making $9 and $10 with no benefits.

Porto vehemently denied that. "We pay competitive wages. We have among the best,
if not the best benefit plan in the industry. We are very proud of our
compensation practices. The reason for laying off these individuals has nothing
to do with wage and benefits. It has to do with compliance with federal laws."

Best Brands has annual sales of $500 million and is privately held. It supplies
bakery products to retailers and food-service companies and to wholesale and
retail bakeries. It has seven plants throughout the nation and 1,700 employees.

The fired plant employees are working with the Workers' Interfaith Network, a
coalition of unions and religious organizations who advocate on behalf of
low-income workers.

Porto indicated the company is open to a meeting, saying Best Brands officials
are happy to meet with anyone with any information on how to improve working
conditions.

The company is now asking plant workers questions about conditions there and
whether they think they are being treated fairly by their supervisors.

Said Porto: "We are speaking with them with regard to the workplace and how they
feel about it and if there is anything we can do to make it a more comfortable
work environment for them. We feel we are a good employer but not perfect."

Julie Forster can be reached at jforster@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5189.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 4, 2008 Monday

Latinos sue construction firm

BYLINE: BY JULIE FORSTER Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 607 words


Eight unnamed Latino immigrants filed a civil rights and wage lawsuit in federal
court in Minneapolis Monday against Mulcahy Inc., a Mahtomedi-based construction
company vying for work on the new Twins stadium in Minneapolis and a new campus
football stadium at the University of Minnesota.

The workers, who filed under "John Doe" and "Jane Doe" pseudonyms, claim they
have been forced to work under exploitative conditions in the drywall industry.
They say Mulcahy employed a two-tiered pay system, paying the Latino workers in
cash at a lower rate than non-Latino co-workers. They also claim they were
forced to work much longer hours but received no overtime or benefits.

"Latino immigrant workers don't get paid for overtime they work and are getting
paid at a fraction of what the non-Latino workers receive," said Justin Cummins
of Miller O'Brien Cummins, who represents the workers.

The workers are asking for class-action status to cover former and current
Latino immigrant workers going back three or four years. Fearing retaliation,
they are asking that the suit be permitted to proceed with pseudonyms. Cummins
said when these workers complained about the unequal pay they were intimidated
and ultimately fired. At least one worker received a "thinly veiled death
threat" after complaining, he said.

Through attorney Rick Ross, the company denied all of the charges and says it
pays and provides benefits to all workers under the terms of a collective
bargaining agreement. Ross, an employment attorney with Fredrikson & Byron, said
the company has tried to get the names of the complaining workers so it can
provide payroll information as proof that the workers were paid properly under
the wage scales specified in the union contract.

"In order for us to meaningfully respond to the allegations, we need to know who
the plaintiffs are," Ross said. The International Union of Painters and Allied
Trades represents construction workers at the company. The union is not involved
in the lawsuit.

Ross said Mulcahy plans to submit a bid to work on a new Twins stadium under
construction in Minneapolis and has submitted a bid to construct the wall
systems on the new stadium at the University of Minnesota. The university said a
contract for that work with Mulcahy has not yet been signed. The Twins said
bidding for the stadium's drywall work hasn't begun.

The former workers who filed suit worked on various condominium projects and the
Hilton Hotel in Bloomington.

The company has worked on the Mall of America, condo projects in the Twin Cities
and the Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul. According to a Dun & Bradstreet report,
the company has net sales of $17.6 million and employs 300 people.

Specifically, the complaint alleges that while white, native-born employees of
Mulcahy reportedly have worked 40 hours per week with meal periods and other
breaks, the immigrant employees typically have been forced to work about 72
hours per week with few or no breaks and no overtime pay for overtime worked.

While the non-Latino workers made on average $375 per day, including benefits,
Latino workers were making on average about $100 a day and received no benefits,
Cummins said.

The lawsuit asks the court to certify the case as a class action, to compel
Mulcahy's adoption and compliance with employment policies that end the pattern
of civil rights violations, and to monitor the company's compliance with the law
going forward.

Cummins said the potential number of current and former employees that would be
included in the class, if it is certified, is "in excess of 100."

Julie Forster can be reached at 651-228-5189 or jforster@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 14, 2007 Monday

St. Paul Public Schools / 17 apply for board seat; legality of 1 is in doubt

BYLINE: BY DOUG BELDEN Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Education; Ramsey County

LENGTH: 600 words



A dozen last-minute filers brought the number of applicants for the St. Paul
school board's interim seat to 17 by Monday's deadline. But one high-profile
applicant's bid was thrown into question over his citizenship status.
Omar Jamal, director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center in St. Paul, said
Monday he would not withdraw his application even though applicants are required
to be registered voters.
He said he is legally in the country under an asylum claim but is not a U.S.
citizen and is thus ineligible to vote.
Despite that, the outspoken Somali activist, who applied for the post earlier
this month, said Monday he'll ask the school board tonight to waive the
requirement and consider letting him serve.
"The way I look at it is I believe that I can contribute a lot," he said.
Jamal was convicted in 2005 of five felony counts of immigration fraud in U.S.
District Court in Memphis, Tenn. He is appealing that conviction. A hearing in a
related administrative case against Jamal is scheduled for immigration court
later this month.
School district general counsel Jeff Lalla said he is researching the legality
of Jamal's application.
In a repeat of the process two years ago - the last time the school board filled
a vacancy - most of the applications arrived in a rush just before the deadline.
In 2005, there were 17 applications as well.
Among those applying this time was one of the three finalists to get at least
one vote from the board in 2005: Brian Joyce, a manager with Walgreens and
longtime district volunteer. He lost the seat two years ago to Bill Finney,
former police chief and former board member.
The current board seat became vacant last month when longtime member Al Oertwig
resigned.
The board is scheduled to conduct first interviews Monday and appoint the
interim member May 31. Whoever is selected will serve through the end of the
calendar year. The seat will be filled by election in November.
The applicants are:
Sharon Anderson, a frequent candidate for public office whose application lists
her as a St. Paul Central High graduate.
Colleen Hartmon Bollom, financial adviser with UBS Financial Services in St.
Paul; co-chaired district's citizens' budget and finance advisory committee and
Como Park Elementary site council; served on superintendent search committee.
Jo Ann Clark, day-care owner.
Ted Davis, president of St. Paul-based Davis Communications Management; served
on district's long-range space planning committee and superintendent search
committee.
Edward Delaney, insurance professional.
Sara Fleetham, program and volunteer manager of Junior Achievement; former
teacher and campus minister at Hill-Murray School.
Martin Foss, a St. Paul Public Schools teacher for 39 years, retiring in June.
Denise Gathman, a home improvement rehabilitation specialist with Community
Neighborhood Housing Services in St. Paul.
Jeanette Gudgel, communications and marketing professional.
Peter Hendricks, lawyer.
Kaohly Her, business consultant for American Express.
Omar Jamal, director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center in St. Paul.
Brian Joyce, executive assistant manager with Walgreens; served on Ramsey Junior
High site council; co-chaired citizens' budget and finance advisory committee.
John Krenik, special-education teacher, Murray Junior High School.
Tonica Abdur Salaam, youth development partnership coordinator for Project for
Pride in Living.
Judith Tenney, reading/study skills teacher, Central High School.
John Thoemke, retired; has chaired the district's capital expenditure advisory
committee.
Doug Belden can be reached at dbelden@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5136.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday

Gates: Let in more workers;
High-tech firms need skills, he tells panel

BYLINE: MARILYN GEEWAX, Cox News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 393 words


WASHINGTON -- Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates told Congress on Wednesday
that the United States should welcome an "infinite" number of highly skilled
foreign workers to fill engineering, computer programming and other jobs that
otherwise would go vacant.

Employers face a "critical shortage" of high-tech workers, Gates said. "There is
only one way to solve that crisis today: open our doors to highly talented
scientists and engineers who want to live, work and pay taxes here."

Gates told the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee that
Congress should fix the "terrible shortfall" in H-1B visas, which allow
well-educated foreigners to work in the United States for several years.

But many U.S. engineers and immigration opponents hope to thwart creation of
more visas, saying companies use foreign workers to drive down U.S. wages.

Kim Berry, a computer programmer in Sacramento, Calif., and president of the
Programmers Guild, said his group opposes creation of more visas because they
already "are pushing Americans out of the market."

Employers are so eager to get access to lower-wage workers that "they don't
first consider qualified Americans," Berry said.

More Americans would be drawn to such work if the pay were better, he said.
"That's the way supply and demand are supposed to work," he said. "You boost the
salary" and more U.S. students would study engineering and programming.

Gates faced no harsh challenges from the committee. Even Sen. Sherrod Brown,
D-Ohio, said that in his state, which struggles with high unemployment, business
owners have told him "they just could not find the engineers or computer
scientists they needed to run their business."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who invited Gates' advice on improving U.S.
competitiveness, agreed that "the U.S. cannot sit back and watch other countries
attract the best talent." Kennedy is working with Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., on
an immigration package that may include more H-1B visas.

The government currently issues 65,000 H-1B visas each year. The visas are
quickly snapped up, typically by tech workers from China and India. The cap had
been as high as 195,000 in the past, but was allowed to recede in the aftermath
of the 2001 recession.

Gates also called for improvements in high school education, and the doubling of
college graduates in math and science by 2015.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 3, 2008 Thursday

Worker visa program shrouded in questions

BYLINE: By Jennifer Bjorhus jbjorhus@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; News

LENGTH: 1037 words


U.S. employers are rushing to file their applications to the federal government
for foreign specialty workers to fill tens of thousands of U.S. jobs ranging
from programmers to marketers.

During a five-day lottery period now under way, employers will fill 65,000 jobs
by obtaining H-1B visas, the documents allowing employers to bring in foreign
workers for three to six years.

As sure as the rush to apply come proposals on Capitol Hill to lift the current
annual 65,000 cap -- a move both Minnesota Sens. Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar
support. (There's an additional 20,000 visas set aside for foreign workers with
advanced American degrees.)

Industry has long argued that the temporary work visas are necessary to stay
competitive by attracting the world's best and brightest workers. Many
employers, most recently Bill Gates, argue there's a critical shortage of
skilled U.S. workers.

"From Minnesota, I've heard so many stories of companies unable to get the H-1B
visas, so instead they contract with someone (outside the country)," Klobuchar
said. "It's not like we are talking about an unlimited number of visas."

Critics charge there's no shortage but too many over-specific job descriptions
and overly picky employers. The guest worker program cheats U.S. workers by
importing younger workers who are often less well paid, they charge. Laid-off
U.S. tech workers have testified on Capitol Hill of being forced to train their
H-1B replacements.

What's missing from the decade-old debate is solid information about how the
program actually functions. Exactly which white-collar jobs go begging for lack
of qualified U.S. workers? What are specific workers being paid? How are
specific employers in various parts of the country using the program? Are there
patterns to their particular hiring?

Nearly all of Minnesota's top employers use the visa program, according to the
U.S. Labor Department. The department tracks only very preliminary applications
from employers that may or may not be approved and that don't have information
specific to a real live worker.

But exactly how many visas do employers such as Target Corp., 3M Co. and the
University of Minnesota get each year and for which specific jobs? What salaries
do they actually pay those workers? Did Medtronic get the H-1B visa it recently
sought for the "human resources generalist?" Did Best Buy get one for that art
director?

Companies won't discuss specifics. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
will not release detailed information it keeps on the thousands of
worker-specific visas it approves each year to be issued by the State
Department.

"It's a huge hole," said Ron Hira, assistant professor of public policy at the
Rochester Institute of Technology and co-author of "Outsourcing America." "Why
would you expand a program without knowing what its impacts are? It's very
bizarre to me."

Hira has company. Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, on
Tuesday mailed 25 letters to the country's top H-1B employers asking for
detailed information on how they use the program.

The Pioneer Press in 2004 filed a Freedom of Information Act request to
immigration services for basic information on each H-1B and related L-1 visa it
approved for employers since 2000. L-1 visas, which have no cap, are
increasingly used by employers to bring their own foreign employees to the U.S.
to work.

The newspaper's request remains unfilled. In January, immigration officials
mailed a disk that doesn't contain records of any H-1B visas, and with tens of
thousands of blank fields where job codes should be, and more than 400,000 blank
fields where the worker's education level should be recorded.

The Pioneer Press filed an appeal with immigration services, which recently
informed the newspaper that the appeal is No. 2,771 in a backlog of 2,845
appeals. Chris Rhatigan, an immigration services spokeswoman, said her agency
considers the newspaper's request filled, noting the "appeal is still pending a
final decision."

One reason for the delay has been the agency's notorious backlog of FOIA
requests. At the end of the 2006 fiscal year, it had nearly 90,000 such requests
for all types of information jammed up, according to the FOIA annual report from
the Department of Homeland Security, where immigration services is housed. An
internal investigation in 2006 recommended a major overhaul of the agency's
broken FOIA system.

Lucy Dalglish, executive director of the Reporters Committee for the Freedom of
the Press, in Arlington, Va., said the situation doesn't surprise her. The FOIA
offices at federal agencies lack staff, she said. "Congress has never given them
the money to do what they need to do," Dalglish said.

As for immigration services, it does publish a yearly report, "Characteristics
of Specialty Occupation Workers," showing aggregate totals at the national level
-- such as that 50 percent of the H-1B visas in fiscal year 2005 were for people
from India, half were issued to people in their 20s, 5 percent of the workers
held doctorate degrees and about half the jobs were computer-related.

The report doesn't provide employer-specific or job-specific information. The
agency is also two years behind on its reports.

The Pioneer Press could find only one organization that has received detailed
information about the guest worker program. The Government Accountability Office
(GAO), the congressional watchdog, obtained detailed H-1B visa approval data
around 2002. The group's 2003 report concluded that Homeland Security has
incomplete information on H-1B worker entries and can't provide key information
needed to oversee the H-1B program and its effects on the U.S. workforce.

It also said that in four of the five occupations the GAO studied, H-1B workers
approved in 2002 were younger and that more had advanced degrees than their U.S.
counterparts. Younger H-1B tech workers listed higher salaries than U.S.
counterparts, while older H-1B workers had salaries either similar to or lower
than U.S. counterparts.

The GAO report is limited. It, too, contains no information specific to
employers or jobs. It doesn't help a reader understand how the program is used
in his or her hometown.

Jennifer Bjorhus can be reached at 651-228-2146.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 4, 2008 Friday

Worker visa program shrouded in questions

BYLINE: By Jennifer Bjorhus jbjorhus@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; News

LENGTH: 1037 words


U.S. employers are rushing to file their applications to the federal government
for foreign specialty workers to fill tens of thousands of U.S. jobs ranging
from programmers to marketers.

During a five-day lottery period now under way, employers will fill 65,000 jobs
by obtaining H-1B visas, the documents allowing employers to bring in foreign
workers for three to six years.

As sure as the rush to apply come proposals on Capitol Hill to lift the current
annual 65,000 cap -- a move both Minnesota Sens. Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar
support. (There's an additional 20,000 visas set aside for foreign workers with
advanced American degrees.)

Industry has long argued that the temporary work visas are necessary to stay
competitive by attracting the world's best and brightest workers. Many
employers, most recently Bill Gates, argue there's a critical shortage of
skilled U.S. workers.

"From Minnesota, I've heard so many stories of companies unable to get the H-1B
visas, so instead they contract with someone (outside the country)," Klobuchar
said. "It's not like we are talking about an unlimited number of visas."

Critics charge there's no shortage but too many over-specific job descriptions
and overly picky employers. The guest worker program cheats U.S. workers by
importing younger workers who are often less well paid, they charge. Laid-off
U.S. tech workers have testified on Capitol Hill of being forced to train their
H-1B replacements.

What's missing from the decade-old debate is solid information about how the
program actually functions. Exactly which white-collar jobs go begging for lack
of qualified U.S. workers? What are specific workers being paid? How are
specific employers in various parts of the country using the program? Are there
patterns to their particular hiring?

Nearly all of Minnesota's top employers use the visa program, according to the
U.S. Labor Department. The department tracks only very preliminary applications
from employers that may or may not be approved and that don't have information
specific to a real live worker.

But exactly how many visas do employers such as Target Corp., 3M Co. and the
University of Minnesota get each year and for which specific jobs? What salaries
do they actually pay those workers? Did Medtronic get the H-1B visa it recently
sought for the "human resources generalist?" Did Best Buy get one for that art
director?

Companies won't discuss specifics. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
will not release detailed information it keeps on the thousands of
worker-specific visas it approves each year to be issued by the State
Department.

"It's a huge hole," said Ron Hira, assistant professor of public policy at the
Rochester Institute of Technology and co-author of "Outsourcing America." "Why
would you expand a program without knowing what its impacts are? It's very
bizarre to me."

Hira has company. Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, on
Tuesday mailed 25 letters to the country's top H-1B employers asking for
detailed information on how they use the program.

The Pioneer Press in 2004 filed a Freedom of Information Act request to
immigration services for basic information on each H-1B and related L-1 visa it
approved for employers since 2000. L-1 visas, which have no cap, are
increasingly used by employers to bring their own foreign employees to the U.S.
to work.

The newspaper's request remains unfilled. In January, immigration officials
mailed a disk that doesn't contain records of any H-1B visas, and with tens of
thousands of blank fields where job codes should be, and more than 400,000 blank
fields where the worker's education level should be recorded.

The Pioneer Press filed an appeal with immigration services, which recently
informed the newspaper that the appeal is No. 2,771 in a backlog of 2,845
appeals. Chris Rhatigan, an immigration services spokeswoman, said her agency
considers the newspaper's request filled, noting the "appeal is still pending a
final decision."

One reason for the delay has been the agency's notorious backlog of FOIA
requests. At the end of the 2006 fiscal year, it had nearly 90,000 such requests
for all types of information jammed up, according to the FOIA annual report from
the Department of Homeland Security, where immigration services is housed. An
internal investigation in 2006 recommended a major overhaul of the agency's
broken FOIA system.

Lucy Dalglish, executive director of the Reporters Committee for the Freedom of
the Press, in Arlington, Va., said the situation doesn't surprise her. The FOIA
offices at federal agencies lack staff, she said. "Congress has never given them
the money to do what they need to do," Dalglish said.

As for immigration services, it does publish a yearly report, "Characteristics
of Specialty Occupation Workers," showing aggregate totals at the national level
-- such as that 50 percent of the H-1B visas in fiscal year 2005 were for people
from India, half were issued to people in their 20s, 5 percent of the workers
held doctorate degrees and about half the jobs were computer-related.

The report doesn't provide employer-specific or job-specific information. The
agency is also two years behind on its reports.

The Pioneer Press could find only one organization that has received detailed
information about the guest worker program. The Government Accountability Office
(GAO), the congressional watchdog, obtained detailed H-1B visa approval data
around 2002. The group's 2003 report concluded that Homeland Security has
incomplete information on H-1B worker entries and can't provide key information
needed to oversee the H-1B program and its effects on the U.S. workforce.

It also said that in four of the five occupations the GAO studied, H-1B workers
approved in 2002 were younger and that more had advanced degrees than their U.S.
counterparts. Younger H-1B tech workers listed higher salaries than U.S.
counterparts, while older H-1B workers had salaries either similar to or lower
than U.S. counterparts.

The GAO report is limited. It, too, contains no information specific to
employers or jobs. It doesn't help a reader understand how the program is used
in his or her hometown.

Jennifer Bjorhus can be reached at 651-228-2146.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday

Trucker guilty in smuggling deaths

BYLINE: LIANNE HART, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 301 words


HOUSTON -- A Texas jury Monday convicted a truck driver on all 58 counts against
him for his role in the deaths of 19 people during a bungled human smuggling
attempt.

Tyrone Williams, 35, faces a possible death sentence or life in prison. The
punishment phase of the trial will start Wednesday and is expected to last about
a week.

Williams stared ahead and showed no emotion when the verdict was read but later
hugged his lawyer, Craig Washington, before being led away by U.S. Marshals.

Prosecutors declined to comment but told U.S. District Judge Lee Rosenthal they
expect to call about 25 witnesses during the sentencing trial.

In May 2003, Williams hauled more than 70 immigrants in a trailer from south
Texas to a truck stop near Houston. As temperatures inside the trailer rose, the
increasingly desperate riders peeled off their clothes, punched out taillights
for air and shouted for help.

By the time Williams opened the door about 3½ hours later, 17 people had died of
dehydration, overheating or suffocation. Two others died later.

Williams abandoned the trailer at a truck stop and fled to Houston, 100 miles
away. He was arrested after walking into a hospital complaining of anxiety.

During the trial, the jury of seven women and five men watched as grieving
family members from Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic
identified their relatives from grisly photos. One showed a 5-year-old boy who
had died in the arms of his father.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Rodriguez told jurors Williams was a "vile and
heartless truck driver" who ignored the suffering of the riders. Williams'
lawyers said he didn't know how many people were packed into his trailer and
didn't understand their cries for help, which were made in Spanish.

Williams' first trial ended in a hung jury in March 2005.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday

Trucker guilty in smuggling deaths

BYLINE: LIANNE HART, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 301 words


HOUSTON -- A Texas jury Monday convicted a truck driver on all 58 counts against
him for his role in the deaths of 19 people during a bungled human smuggling
attempt.

Tyrone Williams, 35, faces a possible death sentence or life in prison. The
punishment phase of the trial will start Wednesday and is expected to last about
a week.

Williams stared ahead and showed no emotion when the verdict was read but later
hugged his lawyer, Craig Washington, before being led away by U.S. Marshals.

Prosecutors declined to comment but told U.S. District Judge Lee Rosenthal they
expect to call about 25 witnesses during the sentencing trial.

In May 2003, Williams hauled more than 70 immigrants in a trailer from south
Texas to a truck stop near Houston. As temperatures inside the trailer rose, the
increasingly desperate riders peeled off their clothes, punched out taillights
for air and shouted for help.

By the time Williams opened the door about 3½ hours later, 17 people had died of
dehydration, overheating or suffocation. Two others died later.

Williams abandoned the trailer at a truck stop and fled to Houston, 100 miles
away. He was arrested after walking into a hospital complaining of anxiety.

During the trial, the jury of seven women and five men watched as grieving
family members from Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic
identified their relatives from grisly photos. One showed a 5-year-old boy who
had died in the arms of his father.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Rodriguez told jurors Williams was a "vile and
heartless truck driver" who ignored the suffering of the riders. Williams'
lawyers said he didn't know how many people were packed into his trailer and
didn't understand their cries for help, which were made in Spanish.

Williams' first trial ended in a hung jury in March 2005.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 27, 2006 Friday

GOP messages aim to spur voter turnout;
Immigration, Iraq might motivate faithful

BYLINE: RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER and PATRICK SWEENEY, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 842 words


In what could be an effort to boost Republican votes, Minnesota GOP candidates
Thursday focused their pre-election messages on issues that have won over voters
in the past.

o Gov. Tim Pawlenty hit his Democratic challenger, Attorney General Mike Hatch,
on immigration.

o U.S. Senate candidate Mark Kennedy invited Democratic Senate candidate Amy
Klobuchar to spend an hour debating nothing but the war in Iraq.

o Congressional candidate Michele Bachmann said the United States must "stay the
course" on Iraq.

With 10 days left before Election Day, the candidates are moving to create their
last impressions in voters' minds and move Republican turnout.

Steven Smith, a congressional scholar, said he believed Republicans already have
lost independent voters on Iraq and now are focused on increasing turnout from
their base of supporters. That's key in a year when Republicans generally seem
to be down in polls.

"I hate to be too simplistic, but I think that's what the Republicans are doing
here. They fear poor turnout on their side," Smith said.

Four years ago, Pawlenty ran a television ad that focused on illegal immigration
and many thought it helped bring him victory. Republicans and President Bush did
well in elections in 2004, based in part on voters' backing of their message on
Iraq and the war on terror.

Kennedy, who recently bought a television ad to spell out his support for a
continued war in Iraq, told reporters Thursday he wants to outline for voters
the stark choices on the war -- which has been dragging GOP candidates down this
year.

"This is an issue of principle, not politics," he said.

The current 6th District congressman said he stands by his vote to go to war and
believes the focus must be on winning it.

The United States and Iraq can do that, he said, by eliminating the militias
that have fostered violence in that young country, cutting off Iran's influence,
giving Iraqis ownership of the country's oil, solving "the federalism issue" and
furthering Iraqi troop training.

"That's detail on the bone of 'adapt to win,' " said Kennedy, using the phrase
uttered by many Republicans these days.

The Klobuchar campaign dismissed Kennedy's focus as "political stunts and
last-minute attack ads."

In a statement, Klobuchar campaign manager Ben Goldfarb said: "With seven
debates completed and three more to come in the final week of the campaign, the
choice on Iraq in this election will continue to be clear: Congressman Kennedy
wants to stay the course indefinitely and Amy Klobuchar wants to do things
differently. ... Klobuchar will do what he hasn't: ask tough questions of the
administration, demand accountability and push for change."

Bachmann, the Republican vying to take Kennedy's spot in the U.S. House, called
for the United States to press on to victory in the war in Iraq in a news
conference after Kennedy's.

With U.S. Sen. Norm Coleman at her side, Bachmann compared the war in Iraq to
World War II.

"If we are not successful in Iraq, it will embolden the radical Islamists to
fight," Bachmann said. "And global instability will be worse if we walk away
from this fight because the perception that we will send to the terrorists is
that we are a weak America."

At one point, Bachmann called for American forces to "stay the course" in Iraq.
That's a phrase President Bush once used, but has since abandoned.

Coleman interjected: "That's a strategic goal. Tactically, there's no staying
the course."

Later, Patty Wetterling, Bachmann's Democratic opponent, issued a statement:
"One of the bloodiest months on record; a civil war spiraling out of control;
our soldiers in the cross hairs; generals, Republicans and even the president
indicating a course change is needed -- yet Michele Bachmann and Mark Kennedy
today say 'stay the course.' "

About a year ago, Wetterling called for total troop withdrawal by Thanksgiving.
She has since changed her proposal and no longer has a deadline.

After waiting outside in a Capitol area parking lot for Bachmann to finish her
news conference, Pawlenty took over the room to say he has credibility on
immigration policy and Hatch has none.

On Wednesday, Pawlenty began airing a new ad on illegal immigration at the same
time in the election cycle he ran his immigration ad four years ago.

Hatch shot back with his own ad about immigration. As he has before, Hatch said
the Pawlenty administration has been lax about going after businesses that
employ or abuse illegal immigrants.

Pawlenty said Thursday if Hatch knew about businesses abusing immigrants he had
a duty to report or prosecute them. Pawlenty also said state governments are
barred from establishing "sanctions against an employer for hiring an illegal
immigrant."

Pawlenty's campaign asked television stations to stop running Hatch's ad.

Hatch said he did report violations he believed businesses were committing to
state agencies and states can enforce labor laws.

He said Pawlenty's real complaint is that Hatch responded so quickly on the
immigration issue.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 8, 2006 Wednesday

'Dedicated terrorist' gets life in prison;
Indian-born immigrant led British sleeper cell plotting to destroy U.S.
financial institutions

BYLINE: KIM MURPHY, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 424 words


LONDON -- A man described as "a determined and dedicated terrorist" who headed a
British sleeper cell plotting to destroy major financial institutions in the
U.S. was sentenced Tuesday to life in prison.

Dhiren Barot, who also was accused of engineering plans to explode a radioactive
dirty bomb and set off gas-canister explosions in London parking garages, cannot
be released for at least 40 years under the sentence handed down after he
pleaded guilty to one count of murder conspiracy.

"You are, Mr. Barot, a determined and dedicated terrorist, a highly intelligent
and extremely dangerous man," Justice Alexander Butterfield said.

"Your intention was not simply to cause damage, panic or fear," Butterfield
said. "Your intention was to murder -- but it went further. It was designed to
strike at the very heart of democracy and the security of the state."

Barot, 34, an Indian-born immigrant who grew up in Britain and converted from
Hinduism to Islam as a young man, showed no emotion as the ruling was issued.

The sentence theoretically allows Barot to be transferred to the U.S. for trial
on a separate indictment there accusing him of plotting to blow up the New York
Stock Exchange, the World Bank and International Monetary Fund headquarters, the
Citigroup building in New York and the Prudential building in Newark, N.J.

Seven men accused of being Barot's co-conspirators still face trial in Britain
in April in a plot the judge said was intended to cause "indiscriminate carnage,
bloodshed and butchery" across the U.S. and Britain.

Barot's attorney said there was no evidence that his client and the
co-defendants had gone any further than the exploration stage, or that Barot had
acquired any materials for carrying out bombings or arson attacks.

"There is no evidence as to when an attack was due to be carried out," added the
attorney, Ian MacDonald.

But prosecutors, calling Barot "a close associate or member of al-Qaida,"
presented evidence that he had prepared in exhaustive detail the logistics for
carrying out a wide range of attacks likely to result in massive deaths. He
probably had sought approval and funding for his plans from al-Qaida leaders in
Pakistan, they said.

Peter Clarke, head of counterterrorism for the Metropolitan Police Service, said
Barot's knowledge and careful use of sophisticated anti-surveillance techniques
and coded messages, along with his trips to terrorist training camps in Asia,
made it clear he was a "a determined and experienced terrorist" whose work was
stopped only by his arrest in August 2004.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

GETTING BACK IN PRACTICE;
A state grant aims to help medical professionals from other countries progress
down the long road toward resuming careers in the U.S.

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 760 words


Obstetrician Natalya Lyadova led a team of five doctors and 10 nurses at a
clinic in her native Ukraine.

Now, as an immigrant struggling to learn English in St. Paul, she is setting off
on a long road toward resuming her medical career.

Like thousands of medical professionals from other countries, Lyadova has
discovered that before she can treat people here, she must complete a rigorous,
expensive and time-consuming process.

A $450,000 state grant to three Minnesota agencies aims to give these
much-needed doctors and nurses a hand. The goals are to get them into the field
more quickly and in some cases put them to work in immigrant communities that
need their language and cultural skills.

The agencies help immigrants pay for classes, tests and travel to testing sites.
They also give guidance to the doctors, nurses and other health workers trying
to make their way through the maze of required steps.

"When I came here, I understood it would be a long way to be a physician in this
country," said Lyadova, 33, who lives with her husband and two young children.
"But I have knowledge, I have experience and I have my wish to be a doctor. I am
homesick for my profession."

Carol DaBruzzi of the International Institute of Minnesota said she has worked
for several years -- with little funding until now -- trying to help people like
Lyadova.

"I had a woman surgeon from Moscow who was working in the surgical theater
(here), but as a person who would sterilize the instruments," DaBruzzi said.
"The way it's set up now, it is kind of like we're using a weapon against them.
We're making it harder."

DaBruzzi said she and the immigrants she works with agree the state must verify
credentials and require tests and training. But DaBruzzi said the licensing
process should not be impossible to complete.

One current barrier is that doctors must find a licensed physician here who is
willing to let the new arrivals "shadow" them before they will be allowed to do
a residency. But there is no formal application process to get immigrants into a
mentoring situation, DaBruzzi said.

"It's all a word-of-mouth kind of thing," and most immigrants don't have the
necessary connections, she said.

The grant is helping agencies tackle the issue by linking established physicians
with new arrivals.

For some, there is little the agencies can do. Medical workers from war-torn
countries, or places where there is no functioning government, like Somalia, may
be out of luck if they do not have copies of their transcripts and degrees. For
those immigrants, the only option might be to go through college and medical
school again.

But others can benefit. DaBruzzi is working with Peter Chweyah, 45, a physician
from Kenya who arrived in Minnesota in 2004.

Chweyah has just taken the fourth test -- a two-day ordeal -- required to
practice here, part of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. The grant money
paid the $785 test fee.

From his modest apartment in Crystal, Chweyah studied daily for the test, after
helping get his four children off to school and before his 2 to 10 p.m. shift as
a medical assembly line worker at Medtronic. He earns $12 an hour at the job.

Now he must be accepted into a residency program.

"Things are not very easy," he said. "I've been very positive. You feel like you
belong to a particular career. You're just trying to get back."

State Rep. Karen Clark, of Minneapolis, sponsored the funding bill, which is a
one-year pilot program. She said it made sense to both political parties,
especially because Minnesota has a shortage of nurses and dentists, among other
professionals.

"It was clear that it was an issue that affected people all over the state and
that it might be a good investment," Clark said.

Lyadova, the obstetrician, left Ukraine as a Jewish refugee and arrived in
Minnesota in January.

She is taking classes in English for medical professionals at the Global
Language Institute of the College of St. Scholastica. The classes are paid for
by the grant.

Though Lyadova struggles with English and knows it will take years for her to
get licensed again, she said it will be worth it.

"If I sit at home and cry, 'What a hard life I have,' what do I get?" she said.
"I must work. Work, work, work, work."

Emily Gurnon can be reached at egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5522.

Getting licensed

These agencies help foreign-trained medical professionals.

International Institute, Carol DaBruzzi, 651-647-0191, ext. 313

African and American Friendship Association, Anne Lutomia, 651-645-5828

Workforce Development Inc. (Rochester), Deb Long, 507-292-5155

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 20, 2006 Monday

Weapons claims rile Somalis;
Many distrust U.N. report, are surprised by militias' success

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 639 words


Somali immigrants in Minnesota are expressing deep skepticism about a new United
Nations report stating that Iran, Syria and other nations are flooding their
homeland with illegal arms.

Some immigrants also said they believe the Islamic militias that ousted
U.S.-backed warlords earlier this year have made great strides toward
stabilizing the capital city of Mogadishu -- so much so that some are traveling
there for the first time in 16 years.

"Here in the Twin Cities, most people actually think that what the Islamists did
was a miracle," said Abdul Kadir of the Somali Institute for Peace and Justice,
a nonpartisan group based in Minneapolis. "And they think it's the only hope
that we have right now."

In a report Friday, U.N.-commissioned experts detailed claims that many foreign
governments are violating an arms embargo by providing weapons and other
assistance to Somalia.

The report said some nations are aiding the weak but internationally-recognized
transitional government. Others are supporting the Islamic militias that seized
power of the capital in June and have been spreading their influence since then.

In particular, the report alleged about 700 Somalis fought alongside Hezbollah
in Lebanon during its conflict with Israel in July in exchange for support to
Somali Islamists from Syria and Iran.

The report's authors also asserted that Iran shipped weapons to Islamists in
exchange for help in finding uranium in Somalia.

Such claims are "outrageous and preposterous," said Abdi Aynte, a reporter for
the Minnesota Monitor and a fellow with the Center for Independent Media in
Washington, D.C.

It is true, however, that the involvement of countries like Ethiopia and Eritrea
threatens to push the country into all-out war, Aynte said.

"People from Somalia in Minnesota, and everywhere, I think, are gravely
concerned about the situation right now," he said, "partly because the stakes
seem to be a lot higher than they were in the past. We used to have a
Somali-Somali conflict; at this point it seems to include a number of
international players."

The current situation is the talk of Somalis in Minnesota, said Hared Mah, a
student at the University of Minnesota and president of the Minnesota Somali
Student Union.

"If you go to a Starbucks where Somalis sit, most of what they talk about is
what's going on in Somalia," he said.

Local Somalis keep close track of developments in their native country through
the Internet and phone calls to relatives there.

They do not always see eye to eye on politics. But most agree that what the
Islamists have done in Mogadishu is nothing short of remarkable.

The airport and seaport have been opened for the first time in years. The
roadblocks have been removed. And the capital is relatively crime-free,
according to media reports.

"Mogadishu was one of the worst, most dangerous cities in the world," said Mah.

Now, one can walk freely on the street without seeing a gunman, he said.

"I was like, 'This doesn't sound like the Mogadishu I know.' "

Abdi Sheikhosman agreed.

"Certainly, the issue of the restoration of peace and law and order of the
capital city is something that people were really impressed with," said
Sheikhosman, an adjunct professor of Islamic law at the University of Minnesota
and director of the Somali American Legal Institute in Minneapolis.

"They took over -- sometimes returned properties to their rightful owners," he
said. "Not even the multinational force led by the U.S. in 1993 could bring
about that complete peace."

Several Somalis said they had heard of people going back to visit, or planning
to as soon as they can.

"I know at least one guy who left last week," Aynte said. "He told me that he
was waiting almost three months to get the flight." Before, "they always left
half-full."

Emily Gurnon can be reached at egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5522.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday

Time to give thanks for immigrants

BYLINE: EDWARD LOTTERMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 668 words


Thanksgiving is a good time to reflect on international migration. After all,
the holiday began with immigrants giving thanks for what was then a pretty bleak
survival.

That early migration to Plymouth Rock was one of many migrations that built our
nation and economy.

Three things make me particularly mindful of immigration this week: A crew of
six hard-working immigrants shingled our house. Milton Friedman, the most
influential U.S. economist of the 20th century and the son of very poor
immigrants, died after six decades of productive work. Finally, I received an
e-mail from a distant cousin in the Netherlands inquiring about my immigrant
grandparents and how they arrived here.

All reminded me how much our society owes to immigration.

The rich social, artistic and cultural diversity of our nation stems from the
varied backgrounds of our immigrant ancestors. So do much of the nation's
economic dynamism, entrepreneurship, and willingness to innovate in technology
and management of institutions.

Immigration has fostered academic and scientific excellence. Go down the list of
Nobel laureates in physics, chemistry, medicine and economics. Note how many of
the U.S. prize winners were born in other nations, yet did their most
significant work in the United States. Then add to the list all the scholars
who, like Friedman, were born into immigrant families. No other nation has
benefited as much as ours has from this research and scholarship from
immigrants.

The effects of immigration are broadly based. With the exception of Native
Americans, we all come from immigrant stock. The only variation lies in how long
ago the migration took place. My mother, a little younger than Friedman, was
born nine years after her parents arrived from the Netherlands. Friedman's
parents came at about the same time and apparently struggled as hard as my
grandparents.

My neighbor Mark's ancestors came from England much earlier; one of his
ancestors fought at the Civil War battle of Chancellorsville, Va. Elena, who
lives in the next house over, arrived here at age 14 from Argentina, where she
was born a few years after her parents fled the oncoming Holocaust in Europe.

Monrique, the subcontactor who shingled my house, left the Mexican state of
Michoacan less than two decades ago. But in that time he has become a licensed
and bonded contractor with several thousands of dollars of equipment and five
hard-working employees.

What is the economics of all of this? The United States is the nation it is
because of who its residents are -- both for good and for ill. From the initial
landings four centuries ago, the population has grown with successive waves of
immigration.

Deciding to immigrate is not a random process. Those who opt for this arduous,
often painful travail of giving up one nation and culture for another tend to
possess more ambition, more initiative and more willingness to change the status
quo. Those characteristics helped shape our national character.

The United States is not the only nation based on immigration. Canada,
Australia, Brazil and Argentina are alike in that the current inhabitants are
largely of European, African or, increasingly, Asian origin. As in the United
States, the aboriginal peoples who lived in these lands 400 years ago have been
marginalized and reduced to a small fragment of the population.

Still, immigrant vigor is a major element in the societies and economies of all
these nations.

We should appreciate the contribution of immigration but we should not be
over-congratulatory. Our society has many problems. Some of these, in the United
States as in Brazil, stem from the after-effects of forced migrations of
Africans more than two centuries ago. Assimilation of immigrants has never been
easy, and recent arrivals have suffered mistreatment throughout our history.

That said, immigration made our nation much of what it is today and we should be
grateful for it.

St. Paul economist and writer Edward Lotterman can be reached at
elotterman@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant army plan criticized;
Military service would lead to citizenship

BYLINE: EUNICE MOSCOSO, Cox News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 979 words


WASHINGTON -- In the Revolutionary War, thousands of immigrants joined the
American quest for independence.

Two centuries later, two prominent national security experts contend that
foreign citizens can once again help the United States maintain
combat-readiness.

Michael O'Hanlon, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington and
Max Boot, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, have
proposed allowing thousands of immigrants into the United States to serve for
four years in the military in exchange for citizenship. While many noncitizen,
legal residents already participate in the armed forces, this program would
bring in citizens of other countries with the express purpose of becoming
soldiers.

For some, this brings to mind the medieval practice of hiring foreign
mercenaries. For others, it cheapens the ideal of being an American and takes
advantage of desperate people.

But O'Hanlon says that the military is in dire need of new personnel and that
immigrants could be an ideal solution.

"The Army and Marine Corps are too small and too stressed, even though they've
gone to great lengths to work hard to recruit," he said. "I want to give them
some more options to find people."

O'Hanlon and Boot say that importing immigrants to be soldiers would solve the
military's recruitment problems and provide the armed forces with more
translators and experts in other cultures.

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have stretched thin U.S. military resources,
forcing the Pentagon to rely more heavily on reservists, National Guard troops
and multiple deployments. In an effort to meet recruitment goals, the military
has boosted cash bonuses and other incentives.

O'Hanlon acknowledges that hiring noncitizens is risky and that extensive
background checks would have to be done to protect national security, but he
says "we're not living in a perfect world" and that immigrants traditionally
perform well in the military.

The United States has more than 40,000 noncitizens serving in the armed forces
on active and reserve duty, and about 8,000 of these permanent residents enlist
for active duty every year. The rate of naturalization for the immigrant
soldiers has increased in recent years because the United States expedited the
process and allows citizenship ceremonies to be held overseas for service
members.

Margaret Stock, a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve and professor at
the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, said that a recent change in law has
given the Pentagon the authority to bring immigrants to the United States to
serve in the military as long as it determines that it is vital to the national
interest, but the Pentagon has not chosen such an option.

Maj. Stewart Upton, a Pentagon spokesman, said that Department of Defense policy
now limits enlistments to U.S. citizens and permanent residents and said
immigrants who enlist in any branch of the military are offered a path to U.S.
citizenship.

Stock said that more opportunities should exist for immigrants to serve, but not
as the sole path to citizenship. She also objected to a four-year wait for
citizenship because it would delay the ability of some immigrants to perform
intelligence-sensitive tasks in the military.

In addition, she said the military could find more recruits if illegal immigrant
students were given a chance at legal residency. Legislation known as the DREAM
Act, which would give illegal immigrant children who finish high school a path
to citizenship, has stalled in Congress. The measure allows students to
eventually attain permanent legal status if they complete two years of college
or serve honorably in the military for at least two years.

The nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute estimated that the DREAM Act would
result in 279,000 newly eligible people for college enrollment or the military.

Boot said illegal immigrants should be allowed to participate in the military
path to citizenship program because "they're here anyway and we're not kicking
them out."

A few other countries have a long tradition of foreign citizens serving in
specific military branches, including France, where about 8,000 noncitizens
comprise the French Foreign Legion. Other examples include the military force
known as the Gurkhas, Nepalese soldiers who have served in the British Army for
200 years, and the Swiss Guard, which protects the Vatican.

In the United States, people on both sides of the immigration debate objected to
O'Hanlon and Boot's idea.

Lisa Navarrette, spokeswoman for the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights group, said that allowing immigrants to come to the United States
for the sole purpose of serving in the military was "a deeply offensive notion"
and "a slap in the face to our troops" because it implies that Americans are not
willing to defend the country.

In addition, she said that the United States would be further hurting its image
in the world by proposing to use immigrants as "cannon fodder" and exploiting
people's desperation.

"It is chilling to me that this came from two organizations that play such a
critical role in shaping foreign policy in this country," she said.

Meanwhile, Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration
Studies, a think tank that advocates lower levels of immigration, said that
having a large number of noncitizen soldiers would cause the military to be more
reckless.

"If everybody whose child is fighting in the military can't vote or contribute
to U.S. elections, that matters a lot," he said.

Already, the deaths of foreign contractors working for the U.S. government in
Iraq are rarely reported by the U.S. news media because there is less public
interest, he said.

"One of the reasons you don't engage in adventurous wars is that 'we don't want
to get our boys killed' ... but if it's someone else's boys, it changes the
dynamic," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 1, 2006 Friday

Citizenship test shifting gears;
New exam based on understanding concepts, not memorizing facts

BYLINE: PATTY REINERT, Houston Chronicle

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 714 words


WASHINGTON -- A study hint for immigrants preparing to take the citizenship test
in 2008: Stop worrying about what year the Constitution was written and start
thinking about what it means to be an American.

The government said Thursday that it was redesigning the test to put less
emphasis on memorizing facts and more weight on understanding the nation's
history and government.

"Our goal is to inspire immigrants to learn about the civic values of this
nation so that after they take the oath of citizenship, they will participate
fully in our great democracy," said Emilio Gonzalez, director of U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Volunteer citizenship applicants in 10 cities will begin taking a tryout version
of an oral exam in January before the questions are revised and used nationwide
in early 2008. The cities are Boston, Miami, Denver, Charleston, S.C., Kansas
City, Mo., San Antonio and El Paso, Texas, Tucson, Yakima, Wash., and Albany,
N.Y.

Volunteers in the pilot project can immediately revert to the old test if they
find the new questions too difficult to answer, so that offering to take the new
test will not jeopardize their chances of becoming naturalized.

Immigration officials released 144 sample questions Thursday. On the civics
portion, applicants will be asked 10 questions drawn from a master list of 100.
As now, applicants will need to answer six correctly to pass.

Rather than being asked to simply list the three branches of government
(executive, legislative and judicial), citizenship applicants could be asked to
explain why there are three branches (so no branch is too powerful; to separate
the power of government.)

Instead of being asked "Who was Martin Luther King Jr.?" (A civil rights
leader), applicants could be asked "Martin Luther King Jr. had a dream for
America. What was his dream?"

Acceptable answers include: "Civil rights for all" or "Equality for all
Americans."

Gonzalez said the current exam, which includes such questions as "What colors
are the stripes on the flag?" (red and white) and "Who wrote 'The Star-Spangled
Banner?' '' (Francis Scott Key), encourages applicants to memorize facts just to
pass a test.

"But that doesn't guarantee that they understand the meaning behind the
question," he said.

Magali Candler, a Houston immigration attorney who heads the regional chapter of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association, predicted the new test may produce
a higher failure rate for some immigrants, particularly the elderly -- in part
because even immigrants with good English skills sometimes have difficulty
expressing broad concepts orally.

But she said immigrants likely will rise to the challenge.

"I have always thought that my clients studying for naturalization knew more
about American civics than many of my friends and neighbors who were born here,"
she said.

Whether the test will be more educational or meaningful could depend upon how
flexible examiners are on accepting immigrants' answers, she said.

On the draft question "What does freedom of religion mean?" for example, "there
are a lot of different right answers," she said.

Even on the current test, she said, a client had trouble answering a question
about the important benefits of becoming a naturalized citizen.

The examiner was seeking a response like, "You get to vote," but Candler's
client answered, "You can't get deported."

"That's a great answer," she said. "And it's true. That is an important benefit
of becoming a citizen."

John Keeley, a spokesman for the Washington-based Center for Immigration
Studies, which seeks to reduce immigration, praised the new questions.

"It's striking that instead of answering how many bars are on the U.S. flag
(13), they will need to know why we have 100 U.S. senators (because there are
two from each state)," he said. "We'll never agree upon a perfect exam, but I
think this achieves the mission of bringing greater heft and integrity to the
test."

About 800,000 people apply for naturalization in the United States every year,
according to private studies.

The estimated cost of the test revamp is $6.5 million, which includes launching
the pilot project, studying the results, narrowing the list of questions to 100
and implementing the new test nationwide.

This report includes information from the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday

Lesson for employers: Do ask, get sued; do tell, get raided

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 872 words


At dawn on Tuesday more than a thousand Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents descended on six plants owned by Swift & Co., one of the country's
largest meat processors. Some 1,300 workers were arrested, and operations at all
six slaughterhouses were suspended.

Seen in one light, the raids were perfectly justified. Both employer and
employees were breaking the law. It's a law that's being violated on a massive
scale from coast to coast, and the public is increasingly upset about it.

The only catch: Swift has been trying for years to comply with our poorly
conceived immigration laws, coping as best it could with an impossible
situation. Like a driver who finally goes through a broken traffic light, the
company and its workers aren't the problem -- the system is.

Both Swift and its employees -- who bore the brunt of the punishment -- are
caught in an economic bind far bigger than themselves. Meat processing is dirty
and dangerous. Fewer and fewer members of the increasingly educated American
workforce are interested in the jobs.

As a result, although it now pays an average of $13 an hour, or $25,000 a year,
the industry increasingly relies on foreign workers, not because they're cheap
-- $25,000 a year is what trained paramedics and college-educated kindergarten
teachers make in meatpacking states such as Iowa and Kansas -- but simply
because they'll do the work. If immigrants weren't available, companies such as
Swift would have to close, and both meatpacking and the agriculture that depends
on it -- cattle and hog producers -- would eventually move to other countries.

Not only that, but U.S. law makes the bind much worse for both employers and
employees. Despite the meatpacking industry's well-known need for foreign labor,
the United States offers virtually no way for these workers to enter the country
legally. Every year the economy as a whole creates some 500,000 more unskilled
jobs than Americans want to do, yet we issue only 5,000 year-round visas for the
immigrants who might fill them. For companies such as Swift and its workers,
there's no good answer, and it's not surprising that many break the law.

But even that isn't the end of the cruel twists of Swift's story. Far from
ignoring or shrugging off the law, the firm has been trying to comply with it.
When job applicants started showing up with what the company suspected were
false papers, it tried inquiring into their backgrounds -- only to be sued for
discrimination by the Justice Department.

When the government created a program meant to help employers verify that their
workers were in the country legally by checking Social Security numbers against
a central database, Swift was among the first to sign up. And when that program
didn't seem to be catching the worst offenders -- people using not false Social
Security cards but stolen ones -- Swift came to Washington to testify in
Congress about the problem. The reward: That was precisely the offense that ICE
raided the company for on Tuesday.

Don't misunderstand:Swift is no band of saints. Everyone involved -- the
company, its workers, the U.S. government -- knows that the kind of compliance
required to pass muster today is a charade. But it is a charade our
dysfunctional immigration system has all but forced the firm and its workers to
play.

Does this mean it's all right to break the law? Of course not.

Our nudge-nudge, wink-wink immigration system -- unrealistic laws, all but
ignored on the ground -- must be replaced by a law enforcement regime that
works: more honest quotas, enforced to the letter, including in the workplace.
Raids such as those that took place this week would be justified in the context
of an immigration overhaul of the kind proposed by the president and passed by
the Senate last spring. Workers need a legal way to enter the country.
Businesses need a legitimate way to get workers, plus a reliable verification
system -- not unlike credit card verification -- to tell them which workers are
legal and which aren't. And once these things are in place, there will be no
excuse for breaking the rules.

But until then, raids of the kind that occurred last week can only be
counterproductive: Companies trying to do the right thing will be driven out of
business, even as those happy to flout the law will find themselves with more of
a competitive advantage. And meanwhile illegal workers will be driven further
underground.

I happened to be with a group of employerswhen the Swift raids were announced --
not food-processing companies but contractors, landscapers, growers and others
who also count on unskilled workers -- brought together by their growing anger
at the broken immigration system and the lies it makes them tell.

"What am I supposed to do?" one employer asked bitterly. "I'm paying $22.50 an
hour. I still can't find enough workers. I'm making less and less money as a
result -- I've stopped bidding for lots of jobs. And I could go to jail just for
trying to get the work done."

And the sad truth is, he can't do much. Only Congress can fix the system he and
his workers are trapped in. As the Swift raids remind us, it's a job that cannot
wait.

Tamar Jacoby is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. She wrote this piece
for the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday

City, county reach out to Somali youth, women;
Outreach combats gangs, drugs, violence

BYLINE: LIALA HELAL, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 834 words


Somali immigrant Mohamed Ahmed Ali was walking with friends when a St. Paul
police squad car pulled up. Officers hopped out and searched Ali and pals for
guns.

"They come down here harassing us, searching us for no reason," said Ali, 24.
"It makes me feel like they're just picking on us for no reason."

Ali's impression, a prevalent one among Somali teens, has been a big concern for
police.

Aiming to blunt that mind-set and to build trust, St. Paul police and the Ramsey
County sheriff's office have teamed with Somali leaders and nonprofit groups to
ease the skepticism, overcome language barriers, and train officers and deputies
to be more culturally sensitive.

"We do a pretty fair job of reaching out to other communities of color," Ramsey
County Sheriff Bob Fletcher said. "But we can do a much better job with the
Somali community."

A $250,000 state grant awarded to St. Paul police in March may help improve
relations with Muslim communities. The Twin Cities is home to the largest
population of Somalis nationwide.

The main concerns within the Somali immigrant community are domestic violence,
youth drug use of the stimulant khat and youth gangs. The fastest growth of
gangs in the Twin Cities lies within the Somali community, authorities said.

"It's a natural outgrowth of the immigration of any group throughout history --
the Italians, Russians, Jews," said police Chief John Harrington. "The youth in
the community bond together for self-protection."

In June, Fletcher assigned two deputies on the Gang Strike Force to work on gang
prevention and suppression in the Somali community. The outreach is similar to
what police were doing with the Hmong community about 20 years ago, Fletcher
said.

"The issues are different, but the lack of understanding is the same," he said.

Other groups involved with outreach include the Minnesota chapter of the Muslim
American Society and the St. Paul Intervention Project, which deals with
domestic violence.

The domestic-violence group has hired a Somali advocate to educate women about
their rights. The advocate, Ayan, who is not allowed to give out her last name
because of the type of work she does, has put together a booklet in Somali and
English highlighting information about women's rights, domestic violence and the
legal process.

Ayan also is including a list of culturally sensitive shelters for battered
Somali women.

"They need to know the steps to take, and that it's OK to call for help," she
said. "Many women are afraid to call in fear of retaliation from males."

Fear of police can be found in many Somalis who fled their war-stricken homeland
in political turmoil. Somalia hasn't had a stable government since 1991, and
many Somalis brought their distrust of authority with them.

"Historically, immigrant communities came from countries where police weren't
necessarily their friends," Harrington said. "American police had to overcome
that historical ideology of how police treated people in other countries."

Some also believe police target them because of their race.

"I have seen some racist cases," said Ali Ali, 30, who emigrated from Somalia in
1999. "They see that you're not from here, you don't understand the language, so
they say some bad words. They give you a hard time."

Although concerned elders in the Somali community are working with police to
help keep youth safe and law-abiding, many youth living in the Somali-dominant
Skyline Towers in Midway don't believe improvement is coming soon. Some even
said they feel like they can't call police in an emergency.

"I don't think they would even help me," Mohamed Ahmed Ali said, adding that he
constantly feels police target him because of his race. "I'd trust two out of
10" officers.

Harrington asserts that police are "color blind" and stop people on the basis of
behavior, but added, "If we're working in an area where there's a drug problem,
and a particular ethnic group is involved in that, because they happen to live
there, we're more likely to stop those people."

Ali Mohamed, 20, who came to the Twin Cities from Somalia in 1998, said he
wishes police would look at a Somali and see the person, instead of a potential
gang member.

"Somali people got their gang and clique," Mohamed said. "Every Somali I see, I
see them as a Somali, not another gang or anything like that."

Police want to meet with Somalis regularly and conduct training in their homes,
Harrington said.

"With constant contact and communication, trust is developed," he said. "When
you see with your own eyes that police said they would do something, and they
did it, you can trust them."

Police are also optimistic about working with the elders of the community, who
often trust police.

"Especially in the Somali community, age and wisdom go together," Harrington
said.

Harrington said he is hopeful the grant and outreach efforts will help build
trust to allow for more effective intervention.

"As a community grows, you find you have to grow with them," he said.

Liala Helal can be reached at lhelal@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday

City, county reach out to Somali youth, women;
Effort combats gangs, drug use, domestic violence

BYLINE: LIALA HELAL, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 835 words


Somali immigrant Mohamed Ahmed Ali was walking with friends when a St. Paul
police squad car pulled up. Officers hopped out and searched Ali and pals for
guns.

"They come down here harassing us, searching us for no reason," said Ali, 24.
"It makes me feel like they're just picking on us for no reason."

Ali's impression, a prevalent one among Somali teens, has been a big concern for
police.

Aiming to blunt that mind-set and to build trust, St. Paul police and the Ramsey
County sheriff's office have teamed with Somali leaders and nonprofit groups to
ease the skepticism, overcome language barriers, and train officers and deputies
to be more culturally sensitive.

"We do a pretty fair job of reaching out to other communities of color," Ramsey
County Sheriff Bob Fletcher said. "But we can do a much better job with the
Somali community."

A $250,000 state grant awarded to St. Paul police in March may help improve
relations with Muslim communities. The Twin Cities is home to the largest
population of Somalis nationwide.

The main concerns within the Somali immigrant community are domestic violence,
youth drug use of the stimulant khat and youth gangs. The fastest growth of
gangs in the Twin Cities lies within the Somali community, authorities said.

"It's a natural outgrowth of the immigration of any group throughout history --
the Italians, Russians, Jews," said police Chief John Harrington. "The youth in
the community bond together for self-protection."

In June, Fletcher assigned two deputies on the Gang Strike Force to work on gang
prevention and suppression in the Somali community. The outreach is similar to
what police were doing with the Hmong community about 20 years ago, Fletcher
said.

"The issues are different, but the lack of understanding is the same," he said.

Other groups involved with outreach include the Minnesota chapter of the Muslim
American Society and the St. Paul Intervention Project, which deals with
domestic violence.

The domestic-violence group has hired a Somali advocate to educate women about
their rights. The advocate, Ayan, who is not allowed to give out her last name
because of the type of work she does, has put together a booklet in Somali and
English highlighting information about women's rights, domestic violence and the
legal process.

Ayan also is including a list of culturally sensitive shelters for battered
Somali women.

"They need to know the steps to take, and that it's OK to call for help," she
said. "Many women are afraid to call in fear of retaliation from males."

Fear of police can be found in many Somalis who fled their war-stricken homeland
in political turmoil. Somalia hasn't had a stable government since 1991, and
many Somalis brought their distrust of authority with them.

"Historically, immigrant communities came from countries where police weren't
necessarily their friends," Harrington said. "American police had to overcome
that historical ideology of how police treated people in other countries."

Some also believe police target them because of their race.

"I have seen some racist cases," said Ali Ali, 30, who emigrated from Somalia in
1999. "They see that you're not from here, you don't understand the language, so
they say some bad words. They give you a hard time."

Although concerned elders in the Somali community are working with police to
help keep youth safe and law-abiding, many youth living in the Somali-dominant
Skyline Towers in the Midway don't believe improvement is coming soon. Some even
said they feel like they can't call police in an emergency.

"I don't think they would even help me," Mohamed Ahmed Ali said, adding that he
constantly feels police target him because of his race. "I'd trust two out of
10" officers.

Harrington asserts that police are "color blind" and stop people on the basis of
behavior, but added, "If we're working in an area where there's a drug problem,
and a particular ethnic group is involved in that, because they happen to live
there, we're more likely to stop those people."

Ali Mohamed, 20, who came to the Twin Cities from Somalia in 1998, said he
wishes police would look at a Somali and see the person, instead of a potential
gang member.

"Somali people got their gang and clique," Mohamed said. "Every Somali I see, I
see them as a Somali, not another gang or anything like that."

Police want to meet with Somalis regularly and conduct training in their homes,
Harrington said.

"With constant contact and communication, trust is developed," he said. "When
you see with your own eyes that police said they would do something, and they
did it, you can trust them."

Police are also optimistic about working with the elders of the community, who
often trust police.

"Especially in the Somali community, age and wisdom go together," Harrington
said.

Harrington said he is hopeful the grant and outreach efforts will help build
trust to allow for more effective intervention.

"As a community grows, you find you have to grow with them," he said.

Liala Helal can be reached at lhelal@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 18, 2006 Monday

Rights group exploring a challenge to Swift raids;
Centro Legal believes worker detentions may have violated constitutional
amendments

BYLINE: RUBÉN ROSARIO

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 791 words


Let's say you're slaving away at your desk when federal immigration agents show
up and start questioning you and your coworkers about employment and residency
status.

You notice the agents readily dismiss your fair-haired, light-skinned
colleagues. The agents tell you -- among those with a Latino surname and darker
skin -- to stick around.

Later that day, the head of the nation's Department of Homeland Security
publicly states the workplace raid was criminal in scope, designed to crack down
on identity theft.

Were your constitutional rights violated? And should you care?

Si, and yes, argues Gloria Contreras Edin.

She's a transplanted and self-described "girl from East L.A." who heads Centro
Legal. The St. Paul-based legal-rights advocacy group is exploring what may be
an unprecedented legal challenge to last week's slaughterhouse raids in
Minnesota and five other states.

Agents arrested more than 1,200 Swift & Co. workers, including 230 in
Worthington. Most were detained on immigration violations and now face
deportation hearings. As of Friday, about 100 were charged with identity theft
or other crimes.

Edin said she believes many rights that separate this nation from many others --
including the Miranda warning, access to lawyers and the right not to
incriminate oneself -- were violated.

"News stories inform us that the workers were questioned, detained and arrested
as part of a criminal investigation under U.S. federal identity theft statutes
and not for immigration law violations," Centro Legal stated in a news release
sent out Friday. "In that event, all constitutional and due-process rights would
be required to be given to the workers prior to their detention, questioning and
arrest."

"Finally, it appears that the only basis for detaining the workers initially was
based solely on their race or national origin," the group's statement adds.
"Such government conduct would violate the workers' Equal Protection Rights
under the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution."

The legal salvo follows a somewhat related lawsuit filed last month by the
Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, known more for going after the Ku
Klux Klan and other hate groups than the U.S. government's effort to curb
illegal immigration.

In the lawsuit, the center alleges the constitutional rights of five U.S.
citizens of Mexican descent were violated when immigration agents unlawfully
entered homes or conducted roadblocks during a series of raids in September. The
lawsuit claims agents "detained and interrogated people merely because they
looked Mexican."

Borrowing a well-known Southern catch phrase, does the dog in the St. Paul
group's effort also hunt? Maybe. Maybe not.

"There appears, based on news reports, to be a basis for raising a
discrimination claim," offers Mary Jane Morrison, a Hamline University law
professor with expertise in both constitutional and criminal law.

"As to the constitutional claims, there are gray areas of the law," Morrison
added. "Anyone who is in this country legally -- a citizen, a resident alien, a
visitor on a visa or someone who entered through lawful channels -- has rights
under the Constitution.

"The extent to which undocumented aliens have Fourth Amendment rights is not as
well settled, except that we do know that the Fourth Amendment allows police
searches at the borders that would not be allowed in other contexts," Morrison
said in an e-mail.

Rhoda Brownstein, the Southern Poverty Law Center's legal director, said the
pending lawsuit in Georgia is distinct from Centro Legal's argument.

Brownstein noted the alleged violations took place inside homes or cars that
were stopped at the roadblock. She added the lawsuit's key argument centers on
ethnic and racial profiling concerns.

"Unlike homes or cars, there are really no expectations of privacy at the
office," Brownstein said. "The issue that might be discussed is whether anyone
has a right to be free from unreasonable searches or seizures at any location."

Tim Counts, spokesman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in
Bloomington, confirmed the raids in Minnesota and elsewhere were carried out
under civil search warrants.

"This enforcement operation was conducted fully within the law," Counts said.
"All of the arrests were made on administrative civil law violations for being
in the country illegally."

Edin believes she may have a case.

"I'm not advocating that people should be here without documentation or that
they break the law," said Edin. "But as a lawyer, I'm obligated to protect the
constitutional and due-process rights that everyone should be afforded. If we
give up those rights, we compromise the rights of all Americans."

Stay tuned.

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 19, 2006 Tuesday

Immigration arrests denounced at rally;
20 from Minnesota indicted; charges include identity theft

BYLINE: JOHN BREWER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 657 words


They came to tell the stories they say aren't being told.

In the wake of last Tuesday's raids at Swift & Co. meatpacking plants in
Worthington, Minn., and five other states, a group of about 200 people gathered
Monday afternoon outside the St. Paul offices of U.S. Sen. Norm Coleman to
condemn the federal action and demand immigration reform.

After a 40-minute rally, a smaller group walked into the Republican senator's
office and read stories about families affected by the Minnesota roundup of more
than 200 workers on alleged immigration violations.

"One woman is pregnant and is terrified to leave her home. She'll only
communicate by telephone," said Patrick Leet, an activist who collected stories
last weekend in Worthington. "She's psychologically devastated."

The stories were told to Coleman's staff members; rally organizers were informed
that the senator is out of the country. A few of the people visiting the office
said the storytelling was necessary because the government is using accusations
of identity theft as an excuse to round up undocumented workers.

"The only identity fraud that's going on here is people having to leave their
countries" and their families to find work in the United States, said Eduardo
Cardenas of the Center for Labor Rights.

The assembly came the same afternoon the U.S. attorney's office in Minneapolis
announced the indictment of 20 of the 230 people detained in the Worthington
raid.

According to prosecutors, a federal grand jury indicted 19 of the detainees on
charges of use of an unlawfully obtained document for employment and use of a
false document for employment eligibility verification.

Fifteen of those people also face an additional charge of aggravated identity
theft.

Authorities said the 19 defendants used the Social Security cards and numbers of
other persons to gain employment at Swift. They also used Minnesota ID cards,
driver's licenses and other forms of identification to satisfy employment
requirements.

A 20th person was charged with re-entering the United States after being
previously deported.

Bruce Nestor, a Minneapolis-based immigration attorney, said 21 detainees are
scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in Minneapolis at 8:30 a.m. today. He
reported that 15 other detainees had bond hearings Monday in immigration court.
The timing wasn't coincidental, he said.

"The government is feeling pressure to file criminal charges because of the
condemnation, the bad publicity that they've gotten because of this," he said.
"They want to try to portray this as an identity theft crackdown. It's an
attempt by the government to shift focus back to what they want the focus to be
on."

A call to the U.S. attorney's office for comment was not immediately returned.

Despite the criminal charges, activists at the rally called the raids
unwarranted and demoralizing. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
action netted 1,282 arrests at six Swift meatpacking plants across the country.

Mike Potter, president of United Food & Commercial Workers Local 1161 at the
Swift pork-processing plant in Worthington, said he had no words to describe how
the ICE sweep damaged his southwestern Minnesota community of 11,000.

"This can never happen again," he said through a bullhorn. "Never."

The crowd held candles against the cold wind on University Avenue as cars
passed; some honked in support. A few people held banners. The largest read,
"Reunify Families; No More Raids."

The Rev. Grant Stevensen, with St. Matthew's Lutheran Church in St. Paul, called
on politicians to take a moral stand on the immigration issue.

"We need our elected officials to step forward with a sense of decency," he
said.

As the light faded, the crowd chanted.

"¡Sí, se puede!" they said, repeating a slogan made famous by the late labor
organizer Cesar Chavez: "Yes, it can be done!"

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093, or at jbrewer@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 21, 2006 Thursday

Va. Republican calls for immigration crackdown Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 494 words


WASHINGTON

Ellison cited in peer's criticism of Muslims

Va. Republican calls for immigration crackdown Associated Press

Responding to constituent e-mails about Rep.-elect Keith Ellison's decision to
use the Quran at his ceremonial swearing-in, a Virginia congressman warned that
"many more Muslims" will be elected and demand to use the Quran unless
immigration is tightened.

Rep. Virgil Goode, R-Va., made the comments in a letter sent to hundreds of
constituents about Ellison, D-Minn., the first Muslim elected to Congress.

"The Muslim representative from Minnesota was elected by the voters of that
district, and if American citizens don't wake up and adopt the Virgil Goode
position on immigration, there will likely be many more Muslims elected to
office and demanding the use of the Koran," Goode wrote.

Goode said the U.S. needs to stop illegal immigration "totally" and reduce legal
immigration.

Goode added: "I fear that in the next century, we will have many more Muslims in
the United States if we do not adopt the strict immigration policies that I
believe are necessary to preserve the values and beliefs traditional to the
United States of America and to prevent our resources from being swamped."

Ellison was born in Detroit and converted to Islam in college.

Ellison dismissed Goode's comments, saying they seemed ill-informed about his
personal origins as well as about Constitutional protections of religious
freedom.

"I'm not an immigrant," added Ellison, who traces his American ancestors back to
1742. "I'm an African-American."

Since the November election, Ellison said, he has received hostile phone calls
and e-mail messages along with some death threats. But in an interview
Wednesday, he emphasized that members of Congress and ordinary citizens had been
overwhelmingly supportive and said he was focusing on setting up his
congressional office, getting phone lines hooked up and staff members hired, not
on negative comments.

"I'm not a religious scholar. I'm a politician, and I do what politicians do,
which is hopefully pass legislation to help the nation," said Ellison, who said
he planned to focus on secular issues like increasing the federal minimum wage
and getting health insurance for the uninsured.

"I'm looking forward to making friends with Representative Goode, or at least
getting to know him," Ellison said, speaking by phone from Minneapolis. "I want
to let him know that there's nothing to fear. The fact that there are many
different faiths, many different colors and many different cultures in America
is a great strength."

The Council on American-Islamic Relations, a civil rights group, called on Goode
to apologize for the letter.

"Representative Goode's Islamophobic remarks send a message of intolerance that
is unworthy of anyone elected to public office," said CAIR National Legislative
Director Corey Saylor. "There can be no reasonable defense for such bigotry."

Goode spokesman Linwood Duncan said no apology was forthcoming.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 23, 2006 Saturday

7 Catholic bishops call raids on Swift & Co. plants divisive;
Timing of raid -- on Latino Catholic holiday -- also draws criticism

BYLINE: TAD VEZNER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 633 words


MINNESOTA

A group of Minnesota bishops released a strongly worded statement of protest
against recent federal immigration raids on Swift & Co. plants -- particularly a
raid in Worthington, Minn. -- saying the action had divided families, disrupted
communities and did nothing to advance "needed" immigration reform.

"All the (Christmas) lights are out in that town. This is the land of light and
brightness and safety, and they're hiding," Bishop Bernard Harrington, of the
Winona Catholic Diocese, said Friday of immigrants in the Worthington community.
The Winona Diocese covers the Worthington area.

The statement, released by the Minnesota Catholic Conference and signed by seven
prominent church leaders -- including Archbishop Harry Flynn of the Archdiocese
of St. Paul and Minneapolis -- led off by lambasting the raids taking place on
an important Latino Catholic holiday: the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe,
patron saint of the Americas. The bishops said the decision added "insult to
injury."

"That is the surprising thing, to think that the immigration service that worked
on planning this thing for three months and then choosing that day," Harrington
said. "It would be like having a raid in our houses on Christmas Day. There's an
evilness to do it on that day. There's an evilness."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Tim Counts said the raid
occurred at the time when the office was able to coordinate more than 1,000
agents in six states.

"The date was chosen only because, logistically, everything came together that
day," Counts said. Counts declined to comment on whether immigration officials
should have known about the holiday.

"They have to have known. If they don't know, the guy deserves to be fired, he's
so dumb. He is just plain incompetent," Harrington added.

The bishops went on in their statement to say that the raids "heartlessly
divided families, disrupted the whole community of Worthington and undermined
progress that that city had made toward bridging racial and cultural
differences."

"Such raids ... violate the rights of workers and the dignity of work. These men
and women are our brothers and sisters; as workers, they provide our food; as
residents, they support our local businesses and communities."

Counts maintained the Dec. 12 raid "was carried out with care and respect toward
each person arrested." He noted that about two dozen of the 230 arrested were
released on their own recognizance for "humanitarian reasons," such as to care
for a child.

About 20 of those arrested were criminally indicted for document fraud; 15 of
those also were indicted for aggravated identity theft.

Parts of the statement mimicked a legislative agenda put forward recently by the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, calling for "comprehensive immigration
reform, including a broad legalization program."

"In the end, our immigration laws should be just and humane and reflect the
values -- fairness, opportunity, and compassion -- upon which our nation, a
nation of immigrants, was built," the Rev. William Skylstad, president of the
national Catholic conference, said in June.

"They (local bishops) wanted to at least direct some language toward the
national effort," said Chris Leifeld, executive director of the Minnesota
Catholic conference.

President Bush has backed a "guest worker program" offering temporary legal
status and some civil protections to undocumented workers. Many in the
Republican Party oppose the measure.

Other Minnesota bishops to sign the statement are John Nienstedt of the New Ulm
Diocese; Richard Pates of the Archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis; John
Kinney of the St. Cloud Diocese; Victor Balke of the Crookston Diocese; and
Dennis Schnurr of the Duluth Diocese.

Tad Vezner can be reached at tvezner@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5461.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday

Clearing up mistakes and misjudgments in the year just past

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 817 words


CLEARING THE BOOKS

Clearing up mistakes and misjudgments in the year just past

DAVID

BRODER

WASHINGTON

The controversies of the year past -- Iraq, immigration, domestic surveillance
and the rest, plus the political battles that climaxed in the Democratic
victories in November -- all contributed to an exceptionally heavy load of
reader-generated corrections and objections. Thanks to e-mail, many more of you
are now contributing to this annual year-end "goofs" column, where I review (and
repent) some of the judgments and misjudgments of the past year.

To start with the simplest, in an August piece about Ohio politics, I wrote that
Ted Strickland was trying to become the first congressman since Rutherford B.
Hayes to be elected governor of Ohio. Several of you pointed out that I had
ignored two subsequent figures who moved from Congress to that governorship,
James M. Cox and Frank B. Willis.

An interview with Bill Gates produced a wave of protests. The Microsoft
billionaire was in Washington to lobby for an expansion of the H-1B visa
program, which provides entry for foreign-born scientists and engineers who hold
job offers in the United States. Gates said the limit on their numbers was
hurting America's competitive position.

The letter writers, many of whom identified themselves as unemployed or
underemployed people with similar skills, claimed that the H-1B workers were
taking their jobs and working at lower wages. I waded through a mass of
testimony and evidence, supplied by both sides in the controversy, without being
able to resolve the issue. It will likely come up again when the next Congress
tackles immigration reform, and this time, I promise I'll look at both sides
before I write about it.

I had a similar experience when I wrote about Sen. Joe Biden's proposal for
decentralizing the government of Iraq, allowing more authority for separate
Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish regions. I commended the Biden proposal as a step
forward from what was already, last May, a seriously stalemated and
deteriorating situation in Iraq.

But after the column appeared, I received several communications from people
with as much knowledge of Iraq as Biden possesses. They argued that such a step
toward federalism had serious dangers. It would be difficult to apply in urban
areas such as Baghdad, where populations are mixed, and it risked, the
correspondents said, inviting other countries, such as Iran and Turkey, to
spread their influence into a partitioned Iraq.

Those same objections have blocked adoption of the Biden plan, but in the
meantime, Iraqis fleeing violence have increasingly separated themselves into
Shiite or Sunni strongholds, leaving the situation even worse than if there had
been an orderly and legal division of authority.

Another column that drew great protest was one in which I took my colleagues in
the media to task for their treatment of Karl Rove in the Valerie Plame leak
investigation. When the special prosecutor announced he was not charging Rove
with anything, I reviewed some of the many articles that had accused the White
House aide of masterminding the "outing" of Plame and said an apology was in
order.

The e-mail and letter writers argued that the simple fact that Rove had escaped
prosecution did not mean he was innocent of using his position to harass and
frustrate administration critics. He had, after all, confirmed Plame's identity
to at least two reporters working on the story. Even if the original leak came
from elsewhere, these letter writers said, Rove was no innocent.

But I still believe there is an important cautionary tale for the press in the
Rove-Plame story. Too many of us got way ahead of the facts and let our
suspicions grow into assumptions and assertions for which we had no evidence.
That tendency to get ahead of the story is rampant in the media just now, fed by
the speedup of news delivery through the Internet and cable. Just look at the
stories announcing -- in 2006 -- who are "serious" candidates for president in
2008.

Speaking of politics, I'm embarrassed to say that the one state I wrote about
that I got wrong was Michigan, where I spent enough time to have known better. I
thought Gov. Jennifer Granholm was going to be sunk by auto industry
unemployment, but she put on a great campaign and won.

On the other hand, I saw both stages of the Connecticut race correctly -- Joe
Lieberman losing the primary but winning as an independent in November. And the
downfall of the Republican Congress and rise of an independent breed of
Democrats was forecast here from early March onward.

But a column about Hillary Rodham Clinton, touching lightly on the state of her
marriage, drew lots of catcalls -- a tip-off that this subject will be a tough
one to handle if she enters the presidential race. Bring on 2007.

David Broder of the Washington Post writes a nationally syndicated column. His
e-mail address is davidbroder@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 3, 2007 Wednesday

Airport hesitant to grant Muslim prayer room;
Somali immigrant leaders also ask directors for signs in native language,
exceptions for cabbies

BYLINE: EMILY GURNON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 605 words


Somali immigrants passing through Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
want a private place to say Muslim prayers. The airport suggests they share a
room with people of other religions.

Like a new couple learning to dance, immigrants and their adopted countries
often trip each other up, and the prayer-room issue is just one of the latest
tangles between Somali immigrants and other Minnesotans.

"Where you have Christians and Muslims praying at the same time, it will create
a problem," said Fuad Ali, a Somali leader who spoke at a meeting of community
members and airport officials Tuesday in Minneapolis.

The prayer debate was sparked Nov. 20 when six imams -- Muslim religious leaders
-- were removed from an airplane after they had been seen praying in public.
According to witnesses, the men also made anti-American remarks, asked for
seat-belt extenders they didn't need and spread out to different areas of the
plane.

The imams took another flight the next day.

But the incident drew worldwide attention. Muslims decried the treatment of the
men, saying it was discriminatory, embarrassing and fueled by false rumors.
Others praised the airline for taking the men off the plane, saying safety must
come first in the post-Sept. 11 age.

Ali said Tuesday that he and other Somalis want a prayer room so they will not
be faced with a similar incident.

"What can guarantee that will not happen again?" he said.

Airport Director Steve Wareham said if the airport provides a special area for
Muslims to use, it potentially would have to accommodate other faiths the same
way.

"Our request would be you try the quiet seating area," he told the Somali
immigrants.

That existing area is a carpeted room that contains chairs but no religious
symbols. It has been used for years but was never obvious to travelers, said
airport spokesman Patrick Hogan. The airport intends to install more signs
directing people to it on the mezzanine level near the Chili's restaurant, near
the entry to the F Concourse.

At the same time, there is no restriction on praying in other parts of the
airport, Wareham said.

Other issues continue to rile some Somali immigrants. Minnesota is home to the
largest concentration of Somali immigrants in the country. The state estimates
about 25,000 Somalis live here, though community leaders say the number is
closer to 60,000.

Many of the airport's Somali taxi drivers refuse to accept passengers who are
carrying liquor, because their faith forbids it. The airport says it is a
customer-service issue and has forced drivers who refuse fares to move to the
back of the line, which can mean a wait as long as three hours for another fare.

Wareham said he would recommend to the airport's management operations committee
that it hold a public hearing on the matter. He favors stiffening the penalties
against cab drivers who refuse fares for any reason other than their own safety.

"To be refused service by a taxi driver is, frankly, seen as an insult, and we
don't want our customers to experience it," Wareham said.

Somalis assembled at Tuesday's meeting at the Darul Quba Mosque in Minneapolis
also wanted to know whether the airport would provide announcements and signs in
Somali.

Probably not, officials said.

"The challenge is not inundating the air with messages people might start to
ignore," said Arlie Johnson, an assistant airport director.

At least the issue of the prayer room was met with some accommodation, said
Abdirahman Hirsi, imam of the Darul Quba Mosque.

"It's a kind of progress," he said. "And we hope the future will be better."

Emily Gurnon can be reached at egurnon@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 8, 2007 Monday

Salvadoran immigrant gets to stay; ICE backs down

BYLINE: JOHN BREWER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 714 words


After nearly 25 years of fighting, waiting and crying, Gonzalo de Jesus
Larin-Lara is finally a permanent resident of the United States.

But the Salvadoran immigrant doesn't feel like celebrating.

"This is a bittersweet end," Larin-Lara said Monday, days after he signed an
agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement that would essentially
end the government agency's efforts to deport him.

ICE had been denying his pleas for citizenship because it alleged that he
tortured and murdered people while he was a soldier for El Salvador's brutal
Treasury Police. Larin-Lara had admitted to other offenses but never to those.

The Minneapolis real estate agent and maintenance manager was only briefly able
to leave the country during his lengthy battle with ICE. He missed the funerals
of his parents and a sister, and, he said, was forced to drop out of law school.

Tim Counts, a spokesman for ICE, issued a brief statement from agency attorneys
Monday: "The federal government withdrew its appeal as part of a settlement
agreement with Mr. Hurtado. We entered into this agreement in good faith and
expect that Mr. Hurtado did as well and that he will assist in bringing
Salvadoran human rights violators to justice."

The 49-year-old said his life would have been much different without the
government's battle against him.

"I would have definitely accomplished more," he said. "At the same time, I
cannot complain. The people at St. Luke have been a family to me. I would not
have known them without this case."

On Sunday, Larin-Lara announced to his Minnetonka church -- the "family" that
has supported him ever since he sought refuge there in 1982 -- that he wasn't
going to be forced to leave the country.

The Rev. Richard Lundy led St. Luke Presbyterian Church in Minnetonka when
Larin-Lara first arrived. The now-retired pastor and the congregation helped the
refugee to speak out about the torture he witnessed in El Salvador. He had mixed
feelings on hearing Larin-Lara's news.

"I'm happy that this has finally been resolved after 25 years," the Rev. Lundy
said. "I'm sad that it took 25 years to get it done."

Larin-Lara had been an outspoken critic of U.S. involvement in his homeland's
civil war in the late 1970s through the 1980s. He adopted the name Rene Hurtado
to protect his family back in El Salvador during his first few years in the
United States and made numerous public pleas, often with a bandana covering his
face, for the U.S. government to stop funding the El Salvador military.

ICE (formerly Immigration and Naturalization Service) had fought his request for
residency, saying it could not give asylum to Larin-Lara because he had admitted
in early media interviews that he had raped, tortured and murdered people during
his country's civil war.

Larin-Lara said that he was misinterpreted during the interviews -- he did not
speak English at the time -- and that his use of the word "we" in the stories
meant that he was a member of the police force that committed the atrocities but
that he was not an active participant. He did admit to beating two criminals,
stealing from the police commissary where he worked and having sex with a woman
as a bribe to let her go free.

Today, Larin-Lara, 49, is married with two children. He has a Bachelor of Arts
degree from the University of Minnesota and his friends, lawyers and an
immigration judge have called him a respected and contributing member of
society.

Still, ICE had appealed rulings to give Larin-Lara permanent residency a total
of three times. The last appeal came in early 2006, after a judge ordered that
Larin-Lara would not be deported. Forced to file a brief on their case by
Monday, ICE officials decided to drop the appeal and came to the agreement,
according to his attorneys. In exchange, Larin-Lara agreed to cooperate in any
future cases against leaders of his death squad.

"I do believe that it's truly over," said Larin-Lara's longtime attorney Kenneth
Tilsen. He added that he and attorney Ron Rosenbaum have won this case several
times and the evidence has always shown that Larin-Lara was a reasonable and
honorable man.

According to immigration law, Larin-Lara can apply for citizenship in early
2009. He plans to follow through.

"This case is ending and I can concentrate and live my life," he said."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday

Twin Cities / Refugee's long battle finally ends;
Once facing deportation for alleged death squad role, vocal Salvadoran critic of
U.S. says deal 'bittersweet'

BYLINE: JOHN BREWER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 722 words


After nearly 25 years of fighting, waiting and crying, Gonzalo de Jesus
Larin-Lara is finally a permanent resident of the United States.

But the Salvadoran immigrant doesn't feel like celebrating.

"This is a bittersweet end," Larin-Lara said Monday, days after he signed an
agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement that would essentially
end the government agency's efforts to deport him.

ICE had been denying his pleas for citizenship because it alleged he tortured
and murdered people while he was a soldier for El Salvador's brutal Treasury
Police. Larin-Lara had admitted to other offenses but never to those.

The Minneapolis real estate agent and maintenance manager was only briefly able
to leave the country during his lengthy battle with ICE. He missed the funerals
of his parents and a sister and, he said, was forced to drop out of law school.

Tim Counts, a spokesman for ICE, issued a brief statement from agency attorneys
Monday: "The federal government withdrew its appeal as part of a settlement
agreement with Mr. Hurtado. We entered into this agreement in good faith and
expect that Mr. Hurtado did as well and that he will assist in bringing
Salvadoran human rights violators to justice."

The 49-year-old said his life would have been much different without the
government's battle against him.

"I would have definitely accomplished more," he said. "At the same time, I
cannot complain. The people at St. Luke have been a family to me. I would not
have known them without this case."

On Sunday, Larin-Lara announced to his Minnetonka church -- the "family" that
has supported him ever since he sought refuge there in 1982 -- that he wasn't
going to be forced to leave the country.

The Rev. Richard Lundy led St. Luke Presbyterian Church in Minnetonka when
Larin-Lara first arrived. The now-retired pastor and the congregation helped the
refugee to speak out about the torture he witnessed in El Salvador. He had mixed
feelings on hearing Larin-Lara's news.

"I'm happy that this has finally been resolved after 25 years," the Lundy said.
"I'm sad that it took 25 years to get it done."

Larin-Lara had been an outspoken critic of U.S. involvement in his homeland's
civil war from the late 1970s through the 1980s. He adopted the name Rene
Hurtado to protect his family back in El Salvador during his first few years in
the United States and made numerous public pleas, often with a bandana covering
his face, for the U.S. government to stop funding the El Salvador military.

ICE (formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service) had fought his request
for residency, saying it could not give asylum to Larin-Lara because he had
admitted in early media interviews that he had raped, tortured and murdered
people during his country's civil war.

Larin-Lara said he was misinterpreted during the interviews -- he did not speak
English at the time -- and that his use of the word "we" in the stories meant
that he was a member of the police force that committed the atrocities but that
he was not an active participant. He did admit to beating two criminals,
stealing from the police commissary where he worked and having sex with a woman
as a bribe to let her go free.

Today, Larin-Lara, 49, is married with two children. He has a Bachelor of Arts
degree from the University of Minnesota, and his friends, lawyers and an
immigration judge have called him a respected and contributing member of
society.

Still, ICE had appealed rulings to give Larin-Lara permanent residency three
times. The last appeal came in early 2006, after a judge ordered that Larin-Lara
would not be deported. Forced to file a brief by Monday, ICE officials decided
to drop the appeal and came to the agreement, according to his attorneys. In
exchange, Larin-Lara agreed to cooperate in any future cases against leaders of
his death squad.

"I do believe that it's truly over," said Larin-Lara's longtime attorney,
Kenneth Tilsen. He added that he and attorney Ron Rosenbaum have won this case
several times and the evidence has always shown that Larin-Lara was a reasonable
and honorable man.

According to immigration law, Larin-Lara can apply for citizenship in early
2009. He plans to follow through.

"This case is ending, and I can concentrate and live my life," he said."

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093, or at jbrewer@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday

Twin Cities / Refugee's long battle finally ends;
Once facing deportation for alleged death squad role, vocal Salvadoran critic of
U.S. says deal 'bittersweet'

BYLINE: JOHN BREWER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 722 words


After nearly 25 years of fighting, waiting and crying, Gonzalo de Jesus
Larin-Lara is finally a permanent resident of the United States.

But the Salvadoran immigrant doesn't feel like celebrating.

"This is a bittersweet end," Larin-Lara said Monday, days after he signed an
agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement that would essentially
end the government agency's efforts to deport him.

ICE had been denying his pleas for citizenship because it alleged he tortured
and murdered people while he was a soldier for El Salvador's brutal Treasury
Police. Larin-Lara had admitted to other offenses but never to those.

The Minneapolis real estate agent and maintenance manager was only briefly able
to leave the country during his lengthy battle with ICE. He missed the funerals
of his parents and a sister and, he said, was forced to drop out of law school.

Tim Counts, a spokesman for ICE, issued a brief statement from agency attorneys
Monday: "The federal government withdrew its appeal as part of a settlement
agreement with Mr. Hurtado. We entered into this agreement in good faith and
expect that Mr. Hurtado did as well and that he will assist in bringing
Salvadoran human rights violators to justice."

The 49-year-old said his life would have been much different without the
government's battle against him.

"I would have definitely accomplished more," he said. "At the same time, I
cannot complain. The people at St. Luke have been a family to me. I would not
have known them without this case."

On Sunday, Larin-Lara announced to his Minnetonka church -- the "family" that
has supported him ever since he sought refuge there in 1982 -- that he wasn't
going to be forced to leave the country.

The Rev. Richard Lundy led St. Luke Presbyterian Church in Minnetonka when
Larin-Lara first arrived. The now-retired pastor and the congregation helped the
refugee to speak out about the torture he witnessed in El Salvador. He had mixed
feelings on hearing Larin-Lara's news.

"I'm happy that this has finally been resolved after 25 years," the Lundy said.
"I'm sad that it took 25 years to get it done."

Larin-Lara had been an outspoken critic of U.S. involvement in his homeland's
civil war from the late 1970s through the 1980s. He adopted the name Rene
Hurtado to protect his family back in El Salvador during his first few years in
the United States and made numerous public pleas, often with a bandana covering
his face, for the U.S. government to stop funding the El Salvador military.

ICE (formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service) had fought his request
for residency, saying it could not give asylum to Larin-Lara because he had
admitted in early media interviews that he had raped, tortured and murdered
people during his country's civil war.

Larin-Lara said he was misinterpreted during the interviews -- he did not speak
English at the time -- and that his use of the word "we" in the stories meant
that he was a member of the police force that committed the atrocities but that
he was not an active participant. He did admit to beating two criminals,
stealing from the police commissary where he worked and having sex with a woman
as a bribe to let her go free.

Today, Larin-Lara, 49, is married with two children. He has a Bachelor of Arts
degree from the University of Minnesota, and his friends, lawyers and an
immigration judge have called him a respected and contributing member of
society.

Still, ICE had appealed rulings to give Larin-Lara permanent residency three
times. The last appeal came in early 2006, after a judge ordered that Larin-Lara
would not be deported. Forced to file a brief by Monday, ICE officials decided
to drop the appeal and came to the agreement, according to his attorneys. In
exchange, Larin-Lara agreed to cooperate in any future cases against leaders of
his death squad.

"I do believe that it's truly over," said Larin-Lara's longtime attorney,
Kenneth Tilsen. He added that he and attorney Ron Rosenbaum have won this case
several times and the evidence has always shown that Larin-Lara was a reasonable
and honorable man.

According to immigration law, Larin-Lara can apply for citizenship in early
2009. He plans to follow through.

"This case is ending, and I can concentrate and live my life," he said."

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093, or at jbrewer@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

ONE NATION, MANY QUESTIONS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 324 words


Just recently, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services published a gross (that
would be 144) of questions to be asked in a pilot program aimed at improving the
current test given to immigrants applying for citizenship.

If we had to take it today, having lived in this country all our lives, we'd
have to do a considerable amount of studying to avoid being booted out of the
U.S. of A.

Meanwhile, we got to thinking that we probably ought to give a test to those
enlightened souls lusting to move to the most desirable state in the union --
Wisconsin -- where all the great college football and basketball teams reside.

So start studying.

1. Wisconsin's state constitution is the sixth oldest in the nation, with only
five New England states having older ones. What year was it drafted?

2. In November 2006, Wisconsin voters approved a statewide constitutional
amendment banning what?

3. We elect our U.S. senators for six-year terms. Who are Wisconsin's two U.S.
senators today?

4. The state's number of U.S. representatives is determined by population. How
many U.S. representatives does Wisconsin have? Can you name -- we'll be
charitable -- two?

5. Wisconsin is divided into how many counties?

6. Candidates running for governor of Wisconsin must be how old?

7. Is there a limit to the number of terms a Wisconsin governor can serve?

8. What is the longest river in the U.S.?

9. How many justices sit on the Wisconsin Supreme Court?

10. Who has been chief justice of the Wisconsin Supreme Court since 1996?

Answers:1. 1848; 2. Same-sex marriage; 3. Russ Feingold of Middleton and Herb
Kohl of Milwaukee (who owns the Milwaukee Bucks of the NBA), both Democrats; 4.
Eight: Tammy Baldwin, Ron Kind, David Obey, Paul Ryan, Steve Kagen, Gwen Moore,
Thomas Petri, James Sensenbrenner; 5. 72; 6. 18 years of age or older; 7. No
limit to the number of terms; 8. The Mississippi River, which traverses much of
Wisconsin's western border.; 9. 7; 10. Shirley Abrahamson.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 10, 2007 Saturday

Tot left in cold as dad gambled;
4-year-old boy found in Mystic Lake Casino's parking lot as temperature
plummeted to 7 below

BYLINE: DAVID HANNERS, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 622 words


A Brooklyn Park father was charged Friday after he allegedly left his 4-year-old
son alone in the parking lot -- in sub-zero weather -- while he played blackjack
in a warm casino.

The boy was suffering from exposure when a customer found him wandering around
Mystic Lake Casino's parking lot about midnight Thursday. On Friday, the boy was
in the care of Hennepin County Child Protection Services.

His dad, Kang Sam Choi, 44, was charged in Scott County District Court with
child endangerment and for giving police a false name. He was jailed with bail
set at $8,000. His first court appearance was scheduled for Monday.

Kang Sam Choi remained in the Scott County Jail on Friday night. A jailer there
said U.S. authorities had placed an "immigration hold" on him.

"If we have a hold on him, that means we think there's some sort of immigration
violation," said Tim Counts, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in Bloomington. He didn't know the specifics of the case.

The state charges against Kang Sam Choi are misdemeanors. If convicted on both
counts, he would face up to 15 months in jail and a $4,000 fine.

The temperature at the time the boy was found was minus 7 degrees, with a
wind-chill index of minus 22. Emergency medical technicians recorded the boy's
core body temperature at 94.5 degrees, which an emergency room doctor called a
"mild case" of hypothermia.

Prior Lake police were called to the casino after the boy was found. He was
wearing a jacket but no gloves and was shivering, a symptom of hypothermia. He
was taken to a hospital for treatment.

Casino security officers found Kang Sam Choi shortly after midnight, while he
was gambling. Surveillance video from the casino's parking lot showed him
pulling into the lot at 10:51 p.m.

According to an affidavit filed with the complaint in the case, Kang Sam Choi
told a Prior Lake police officer that he had left his son sleeping in the car,
which was not left running, while he was inside.

He said the child was wearing a jacket, hat and gloves when he left him.

"The defendant admitted that during the entire time he was in the casino, he did
not check on his child or instruct anyone else to do so either," the affidavit
said.

Kang Sam Choi also allegedly gave a false name to officers when they asked him
who he was. The complaint said he presented an Illinois driver's license and ID
card and a Social Security card -- all with someone else's name.

When police searched his car, they found a Virginia driver's license with Kang
Sam Choi's photo. But it had another person's name.

The case appears to be the second such incident in the state in the past few
days. Earlier this week, authorities in Duluth decided not to charge a woman who
left her two sons, ages 14 months and 3 years, in a parked car while the
temperature was minus 20.

Neither youngster suffered serious medical problems.

A mother in Sheboygan, Wis., was arrested after she allegedly left her two
children in the car while she went into a tanning salon for a tan. People found
the two children, ages 23 months and 10 years, after they'd been in the car
about 20 minutes.

Children are especially susceptible to hypothermia, said Dr. Doug Brunette,
assistant chief of emergency medicine at Hennepin County Medical Center.

Children have a greater body- surface-to-weight ratio, which means they lose
heat more quickly. The head of a child represents a greater portion of his or
her total body mass, which also causes more heat loss.

Brunette classified hypothermia at 94.5 degrees as a "mild case."

Serious cases of hypothermia can cause organ damage and organ failure, Brunette
said.

Shannon Prather contributed to this report.

David Hanners can be reached at dhanners@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5551.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

Swift pulls through immigration raids

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 95 words


Swift & Co., one of the nation's largest meatpacking processors, is recovering
from huge job vacancies and financial losses after being hit by immigration
raids in Minnesota and other states.

The privately held company, which was targeted by a wide-scale raid Dec. 12 in
Iowa, Minnesota and four other states, is filling positions left vacant by the
raids, spokesman Sean McHugh said.

Swift lost about 10 percent of its work force.

The company's pork processing plants are at normal production levels, and beef
plants are at 70 percent, company officials said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday

A PLEDGE AND A PROMISE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 273 words


BY DENNIS LIEN PIONEER PRESS

Some 500 people from five dozen countries pledged allegiance to the United
States and became citizens Wednesday in ceremonies in St. Paul. They'll be
joined by thousands of others in Minnesota this year. n Meanwhile, state DFL
legislators began pushing a package of bills to make life easier for immigrants.
n "This is a good-justice thing," Rep. Carlos Mariani, DFL-St. Paul, said
Wednesday. "It's an American-dream thing." n The proposals call for:

o A TAX BREAK: Tax credits for naturalization fees -- the money people pay to
become citizens -- which increase from $400 to $600 this summer.

o A TUITION BREAK: Undocumented immigrants who attended Minnesota high schools
for at least three years and graduated would pay the in-state tuition rate at
state colleges.

o A BIGGER VOICE: The Minne-sota Commission on New Americans would be
established to identify resources and work with businesses.

o A BREAK FROM THE FEDS: Congress would be urged to expand the number of work
visas, reimburse hospitals for emergency care of undocumented immigrants and pay
for civics and English classes.

THE NUMBERS: About 7,300 people became citizens in Minnesota in 2005.

NO SURE THING: Portions of the package have been debated in past sessions but
have not passed either chamber of the Legislature. And Gov. Tim Pawlenty opposes
the in-state tuition proposal.

WHY DO IT? Fewer young people will be entering the Minnesota work force soon, as
the number of students graduating from Minne-sota high schools will peak this
year, said Sen. Ann Rest, DFLNew Hope. For the state's economic health, help
must come from immigrants, she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday

Immigrants not triggering a rise in crime;
Legal or illegal, they have lowest incarceration rates, study finds

BYLINE: EUNICE MOSCOSO, Cox News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 435 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigrants -- legal or illegal -- do not raise the rate of crime
in the United States, a study released Monday found.

In every ethnic group, incarceration rates among young men are lowest for
immigrants, even those who are less educated, said the study by the Immigration
Policy Center, an immigrant advocacy group in Washington. This holds especially
true for Mexicans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans, who make up the bulk of the
illegal population.

The authors of the study say it dispels the common notion -- which they say is
propagated by excessive media coverage of crimes and gang activity -- that
immigrants commit crimes at higher rates than native-born Americans.

"The misperception that immigrants, especially illegal immigrants, are
responsible for higher crime rates is deeply rooted in American public opinion
and is sustained by media anecdotes and popular myth," said Ruben Rumbaut, a
sociology professor at the University of California at Irvine. "This perception
is not supported empirically. In fact, it is refuted by the preponderance of
scientific evidence."

The incarceration rate of U.S.-born men 18 to 39 years old in 2000 was 3.5
percent -- five times the incarceration rate of their immigrant counterparts,
the study found.

The report -- which analyzed data from the Census, police records and other
sources -- also shows that a large increase in illegal immigration has not
resulted in a rise in crime. Since 1994, violent crime in the United States has
declined 34 percent and property crime has declined 26 percent. At the same
time, the illegal immigrant population has doubled to about 12 million.

The study also details a "paradox of assimilation" where second- and
third-generation immigrants have higher crime rates than those who first come to
the United States.

For example, foreign-born Mexican men had an incarceration rate of 0.7 percent
in 2000, more than eight times lower than the 5.9 percent rate of U.S.-born
males of Mexican descent.

The study concludes that the children and grandchildren of many immigrants
become subject to economic and social forces, such as higher rates of family
disintegration and drug and alcohol addiction, that increase the likelihood of
criminal behavior.

Steve Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington think tank that advocates lower levels of immigration, said the
impact of high immigration on crime will not be known for a long time because
children born to recent immigrants are still growing up.

"On the issue of crime, the biggest impact of immigration is almost certainly
yet to come," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday

Senate votes to give union rights to nation's airport screeners

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 938 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted Tuesday to give 45,000 airport screeners the same
union rights as border patrol, customs and immigration agents, despite a veto
threat from the White House. The 51-46 vote was on an amendment by Sen. Jim
DeMint, R-S.C., to remove the union rights from a broad anti-terrorism bill to
implement recommendations of the 9/11 commission previously rejected by
Congress. The Senate expects to complete work on the bill by the end of the
week. The House passed a similar anti-terrorism bill with the same union
provision for airport screeners in an indication of organized labor's strength
with Democrats now running Congress. Republicans vowed to strike the union
provision when negotiators sit down to merge the House and Senate bills
together.

Afghanistan, Iraq

faulted on rights

WASHINGTON -- Fledgling U.S.-backed democracies in Afghanistan and Iraq are
failing to protect human rights, the State Department said Tuesday, despite huge
flows of American aid to improve conditions after the ousters of the Taliban and
Saddam Hussein. In its annual global survey of human rights practices, the
department criticized the two U.S. allies in the war on terrorism for their
records last year, when they were beset by increasingly bloody insurgencies and
saddled with weak administrations and poorly trained security forces. The report
cited poor human-rights conditions in several other U.S. allies and partners,
including China, Egypt, Pakistan, Russia and Saudi Arabia. It also criticized
the records of foes Cuba, Iran, Venezuela and North Korea.

Records shed light

on jilted astronaut

ORLANDO, Fla. -- The space shuttle pilot at the center of a bizarre love
triangle that now has astronaut Lisa Nowak facing attempted kidnapping charges
told detectives Nowak "seemed a little disappointed" but accepting when he told
her he was dating another woman, court records released Tuesday show. That
conversation with Navy Cmdr. William Oefelein was in January. On Feb. 5, Nowak
drove 900 miles from Houston to Orlando to confront the other woman. Police say
Nowak, a mother of two, donned a wig and followed Colleen Shipman from an
airport terminal to her car to confront her, then pepper-sprayed her through a
cracked window when Shipman wouldn't unlock the door. Nowak, 43, pleaded not
guilty to attempted kidnapping and burglary with assault and was released on
bond.

Indonesian quake kills at least 70

SOLOK, Indonesia -- A powerful earthquake jolted western Indonesia on Tuesday,
killing at least 70 people and injuring hundreds as they fled shaking hotels,
homes and hospitals. Two children were crushed by debris on a playground. The
6.3 quake struck Sumatra island at 11 a.m. and was felt as far away as Malaysia
and Singapore. Several aftershocks followed, the strongest 6.1. An official said
the number of dead "would likely rise" because tallies from remote areas were
still being collected.

Jetliner fire kills 49 at Java airport

JAKARTA, Indonesia -- A jetliner carrying about 140 people caught fire Wednesday
as it landed on Indonesia's Java island and at least 49 people were killed,
while others were believed trapped inside the burning plane, airline officials
said. Some passengers escaped and rescuers were trying to reach any others
aboard the Boeing 737-400, said Capt. Ari Sapari, operations director of
national carrier Garuda. Metro TV reported that a nearby hospital was treating
about 60 injured. The plane was carrying a number of Australian journalists and
diplomatic staff who were in Indonesia in connection with a visit by Australian
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer, who was not on the plane. The cause of the
accident was unclear, but at least one passenger said the jetliner had overshot
the runway.

Medication errors most often hurt kids

Young children are the most likely victims of surgery-related medication
mistakes, a new study has found, and poor communication as the patient moves
from the operating room to recovery is the most likely culprit. The study,
released Tuesday, analyzed 11,000 mistakes reported to the U.S. Pharmacopeia by
hundreds of hospitals since 1998. It found the rate of harm on patients
undergoing surgery, 5 percent, was much higher than is typical for medication
errors. Among children it was 12 percent. Most errors involved painkillers and
antibiotics. Four resulted in deaths, and one death was of a child.

Peacekeepers

arrive in Mogadishu

MOGADISHU, Somalia -- The first peacekeepers to arrive in Somalia's capital in
more than 10 years were met with a surge of violence Tuesday, as mortar rounds
hit the airport during a welcoming ceremony for the 400 Ugandans and a deadly
gunbattle broke out on the city's crumbling streets. The street battles
involving masked gunmen killed three and mortar rounds wounded one, all of them
civilians, witnesses and police said. The violence is the latest example of the
volatility peacekeepers face in a country that has seen little more than anarchy
for years, and where the government backed by Ethiopian troops toppled a
resurgent Islamic militia only months ago.

N. Korea urged

to reveal all nukes

NEW YORK -- The United States said Tuesday it wants North Korea to move beyond
an initial agreement to shut down its main plutonium-producing nuclear reactor
and "come clean" about any program the communist nation has to enrich uranium.
As landmark U.S.-North Korean talks on establishing diplomatic ties resumed,
Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill also said Washington looks forward
not only to eventual normalization of relations but to creating peace on the
Korean peninsula and ensuring security in northeast Asia.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday

Senate votes to give union rights to nation's airport screeners

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 961 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted Tuesday to give 45,000 airport screeners the same
union rights as border patrol, customs and immigration agents, despite a veto
threat from the White House. The 51-46 vote was on an amendment by Sen. Jim
DeMint, R-S.C., to remove the union rights from a broad anti-terrorism bill to
implement recommendations of the 9/11 commission previously rejected by
Congress. The Senate expects to complete work on the bill by the end of the
week. The House passed a similar anti-terrorism bill with the same union
provision for airport screeners in an indication of organized labor's strength
with Democrats now running Congress. Republicans vowed to strike the union
provision when negotiators sit down to merge the House and Senate bills.

Afghanistan, Iraq

faulted on rights

WASHINGTON -- Fledgling U.S.-backed democracies in Afghanistan and Iraq are
failing to protect human rights, the State Department said Tuesday, despite huge
flows of American aid to improve conditions after the ousters of the Taliban and
Saddam Hussein. In its annual global survey of human rights practices, the
department criticized the two U.S. allies in the war on terrorism for their
records last year, when they were beset by increasingly bloody insurgencies and
saddled with weak administrations and poorly trained security forces. The report
cited poor human-rights conditions in several other U.S. allies and partners,
including China, Egypt, Pakistan, Russia and Saudi Arabia. It also criticized
the records of foes Cuba, Iran, Venezuela and North Korea.

Records shed light

on jilted astronaut

ORLANDO, Fla. -- The space shuttle pilot at the center of a bizarre love
triangle that now has astronaut Lisa Nowak facing attempted kidnapping charges
told detectives Nowak "seemed a little disappointed" but accepting when he told
her he was dating another woman, court records released Tuesday show. That
conversation with Navy Cmdr. William Oefelein was in January. On Feb. 5, Nowak
drove 900 miles from Houston to Orlando to confront the other woman. Police say
Nowak, a mother of two, donned a wig and followed Colleen Shipman from an
airport terminal to her car to confront her, then pepper-sprayed her through a
cracked window when Shipman wouldn't unlock the door. Nowak, 43, pleaded not
guilty to attempted kidnapping and burglary with assault and was released on
bond.

Late journalist was

probing arms sales

MOSCOW -- A journalist who plunged to his death from his apartment building
window faced threats while reporting on a highly sensitive story that Russia
planned to sell sophisticated missiles to Syria and Iran, his newspaper reported
Tuesday. Ivan Safronov, a military affairs writer for the daily Kommersant, died
Friday after plunging from a stairwell window between the fourth and fifth
stories. Kommersant reported Tuesday that Safronov had told his editors he was
working on a story about Russian plans to sell weapons to Iran and Syria via
Belarus. The deals could upset the balance of power in the Mideast and strain
Russia's relations with Israel and the United States, which have objected to
earlier Russian weapons sales to the two countries.

Peacekeepers

arrive in Mogadishu

MOGADISHU, Somalia -- The first peacekeepers to arrive in Somalia's capital in
more than 10 years were met with a surge of violence Tuesday, as mortar rounds
hit the airport during a welcoming ceremony for the 400 Ugandans and a deadly
gunbattle broke out on the city's crumbling streets. The street battles
involving masked gunmen killed three and mortar rounds wounded one, all of them
civilians, witnesses and police said. The violence is the latest example of the
volatility peacekeepers face in a country that has seen little more than anarchy
for years, and where the government backed by Ethiopian troops toppled an
Islamic militia only months ago.

Sen. Clinton calls on

women for support

WASHINGTON -- Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton called Tuesday for
the majority of voters -- women -- to help her break the nation's highest glass
ceiling by electing her the first female president. "Today, women are a majority
of the voters, a majority of students in college, and we are a growing presence
in the Congress. But there are still far too few women in leadership positions,"
Clinton said at a luncheon for EMILY's List, a national political committee that
raises money for Democratic women candidates who support abortion rights. The
group already supports Clinton's bid, but Clinton urged women to actively work
for her as the favorite daughter in the 2008 campaign.

N. Korea urged

to reveal all nukes

NEW YORK -- The United States said Tuesday it wants North Korea to move beyond
an initial agreement to shut down its main plutonium-producing nuclear reactor
and "come clean" about any program the communist nation has to enrich uranium.
As landmark U.S.-North Korean talks on establishing diplomatic ties resumed,
Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill also said Washington looks forward
not only to eventual normalization of relations but to creating peace on the
Korean peninsula and ensuring security in northeast Asia.

Blair warned on

nuclear deterrence

LONDON -- Prime Minister Tony Blair's plan to commission a new
multibillion-dollar nuclear missile defense system risks justifying the actions
of regimes seeking to illicitly develop atomic weapons, a panel of lawmakers
said today. The British leader has called for legislators to back an option to
build a $39 billion submarine fleet to replace existing nuclear-armed vessels
when they vote on the issue next week. But a report by the House of Commons
Defense Select Committee warned the decision could be "seized upon by would-be
proliferators to justify their own efforts to acquire nuclear weapons."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday

Bush chided for not focusing on Mexico;
Calderon polite but firm about immigration, barriers

BYLINE: PETER BAKER, Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 394 words


MERIDA, Mexico -- Mexican President Felipe Calderon chided President Bush on
Tuesday for trying to build a wall between their two countries and lamented that
the American leader never made Mexico the priority he once promised it would
become during his presidency.

As he welcomed Bush for their first meeting since taking office in December,
Calderon set a polite but firm tone, raising some of the toughest issues in
U.S.-Mexican relations. The comments, at a ceremony for Bush's arrival,
underscored the difficulties that may lie ahead in two days of talks between the
leaders.

Among the top issues was U.S. legislation, signed by Bush last year, authorizing
700 miles of fencing and other barriers along the U.S.-Mexican border. Calderon
acknowledged that a better way to halt illegal immigration would be for his
government to improve social and economic conditions in Mexico so that his
people do not feel driven to head north to support their families.

Mexicans respect Americans' right to decide how to handle their security,
Calderon said. "But at the same time, we do consider in a respectful way that we
may truly stop the migration by building a kilometer of highway in Michoacan or
Zacatecas than 10 kilometers of walls in the border."

In another pointed remark, Calderon recalled that Bush had promised as a
candidate in 2000 to put Mexico at the top of his foreign policy agenda.
"Unfortunately, the terrible happenings against the United States people made
that -- in a very understandable way, the priorities changed," he said,
referring to Sept. 11, 2001. "Nevertheless, I believe that it is now time to
retake the spirit of those words and to direct our relationship toward a path of
mutual prosperity."

While vowing to fight drug running in his country, Calderon also pointed out the
U.S. responsibility for stopping the demand. "To be successful in our struggle,"
he said, "we need the collaboration and the active participation of our
neighbor, knowing that if we do not reduce the demand for drugs in a certain
area, it will be very difficult to reduce the supply in ours."

Bush did not directly rebut Calderon but promised to push for immigration
legislation at home that would address their mutual problems.

"I respect your views on migration," Bush said. "Because we're working together,
I believe we will make good progress on this important issue."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday

Strengthening our hand with mental muscle for all

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 648 words


Not every U.S. immigrant can succeed like Carlos Gutierrez. But perhaps
Minnesota and the U.S. should listen to this son of a Cuban pineapple farmer who
became head of a major U.S. corporation and is now secretary of the U.S.
Department of Commerce.

During a visit to the Twin Cities last week to promote free trade, Gutierrez
spoke to us about the competitive edge the U.S. can gain by harnessing the
skills and work ethic of those who want to flock to our shores for economic
opportunity.

Gutierrez heads the agency that acts as the voice of business in government. He
was born in Havana and was part of the exodus to Miami after Fidel Castro took
over. His family moved again to Mexico, where he began working his way up in the
Kellogg Co. He became CEO of the Michigan-based company in 1999, and commerce
secretary in 2005.

Gutierrez will be working this year on the immigration strategy favored by his
boss, President Bush. He spoke of basic rule-of-law principles, including secure
identifying documents, stiffer border security, a temporary-worker system,
holding employers accountable for flouting the law, more visas for highly
skilled employees and an emphasis on learning English.

If the U.S. can figure out how to deal with willing workers in an orderly,
above-board way, Gutierrez believes the nation will surge ahead of competitors
like Japan, which have no way of quickly assimilating immigrants into their
culture or their economy. "This could give us an advantage for the rest of the
century,'' Gutierrez said.

It is in this spirit that we look at a proposal before the Legislature aimed at
allowing children of illegal or undocumented immigrants to attend Minnesota
colleges at the in-state tuition rate. The bill, sponsored by Sen. Sandra
Pappas, DFL-St. Paul, has cleared a committee and is awaiting action on the
Senate floor. Gov. Tim Pawlenty adamantly opposes it.

Pappas' bill states that if these students have attended a Minnesota high school
for at least three years and graduated or received their equivalency degrees,
they can qualify for the lower, in-state rate, rather than the much higher rate
paid by residents of most other states. It would also require such a student to
provide the college with an affidavit stating his or her intention to become a
permanent resident "at the earliest opportunity the individual is eligible to do
so.''

We wish Minnesota and the United States knew the legal status of everyone living
here. That's a goal to work toward. In the meantime, it is a fact that there are
tens of thousands of people in our state, and millions in the U.S., who are part
of a shadow economy that performs jobs U.S. citizens are not clamoring for. Most
reasonable immigration reform plans -- including the president's -- treat this
as a reality and do not pretend that these people will be deported.

We might expect Gutierrez, with his background, to make the point for
immigration on human dignity and freedom. But he suggests that the immigration
system no one is satisfied with now could become a source of strength in the
future -- if we can fix it.

Fixing it will require both an eye for detail and an appreciation for the bigger
picture, which is this: In a global economy, it's a competitive advantage to
draw talent and energy from all over. The United States has always been renewed
and rejuvenated by immigrants.

Bush was in Guatemala City on Tuesday speaking with Guatemalan President Oscar
Berger about immigration policies and saying, "This system needs to be fixed.''

We see the in-state tuition bill, known as the Dream Act, as a step in that
direction. We wish it were called the Minnesota Competes Act instead.
Regardless, it does no one any good to deny education to these young people. It
is in our national interest to train and equip them so that they will become
part of the American advantage that Carlos Gutierrez has witnessed first hand.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 19, 2007 Monday

In the reasonable center of fever-pitched immigration debate

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 788 words

SAN DIEGO

In the fever-pitched immigration debate, the extremes have it wrong and the
center is the only sensible place to be.

President Bush gets it. While visiting Mexico last week, Bush stressed the need
for a "middle ground" solution between unconditional amnesty and what he called
the "empty talk" of threatening to deport 12 million people. Earlier on his
swing through Latin America, Bush staked out some more middle ground. He
asserted his belief that "family values don't stop at the Rio Grande." But at
the same time, he also felt it necessary while in Guatemala to declare that it
is the right of the United States to enforce its immigration laws.

That is precisely the right balance to strike, and the president deserves credit
for trying to hold on to the middle in a debate that is too often dominated by
the extremes.

I'm a middle-grounder myself, although I spend so much time battling ridiculous
and reactionary proposals from the right that I don't always get around to
taking on some of the senseless and self-destructive notions from the left.

Such as the insistence by some that if an illegal immigrant has U.S.-born
children to support, this alone should be enough to justify allowing the
immigrant to stay in the country. The issue has surfaced because of recent
worksite raids in which illegal immigrants have been nabbed and deported, some
of them leaving behind U.S.-born children.

It happened in December after Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents
raided Swift & Co. meatpacking plants in six states and rounded up nearly 1,300
illegal immigrant workers. Many of those apprehended had children waiting at
home, and community activists had to scramble to arrange child care.

And it happened again earlier this month in New Bedford, Mass., where ICE raided
a leather-goods factory that makes vests and backpacks for the U.S. military.
About 361 workers were picked up -- most of them women -- and, again, charities
and activists hustled to locate and help the youngsters left behind.

After the raids in Massachusetts, Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, declared a
"humanitarian crisis." Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said ICE was
"heavy-handed." And Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., insisting that the federal
agency was cold-hearted, quipped that "ICE is not a bad name for these people."

It's a good line.But the agency is getting a bad rap. ICE is just doing its job.
Under current law, immigration officials insist, law enforcement officers can't
make exceptions for family hardship.

Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., hopes to create an exception, using the courts. He
has sponsored a bill that would give immigration judges more discretion in
weighing the effect on families when deciding whether to deport an illegal
immigrant.

Fine. Let's give judges more discretion. But let's not get to the point where
simply having U.S.-born children amounts to some sort of automatic exemption
that allows illegal immigrants to stay in this country. That creates more
problems than it solves.

First, it's impractical.The numbers are too high. According to the Pew Hispanic
Center, there are as many as 3 million U.S.-born children who have at least one
parent who is an illegal immigrant. About 10 percent of American families have
at least one member who is here illegally. So this
"U.S.-born-children-to-support" exemption could apply to millions of people,
watering down the rule of law.

Besides, such a policy would play into the hands of immigration restrictionists
who drone on about so-called anchor babies -- U.S. children who supposedly keep
their illegal immigrant parents anchored in the United States. It's an
oversimplification. There is only one thing that is anchoring illegal immigrants
in the United States: jobs.

And finally, allowing people to stay in the United States because they have
U.S.-born children to support only confuses the issue of who is actually
responsible for the precarious state in which these folks find themselves. The
activists like to blame the government and a broken immigration system. Yet the
blame lies with the parents. They made at least three mistakes to get to this
point: coming to the country illegally, having children while they were in the
uncertain situation where they could be apprehended and deported at any time,
and allowing this uncertainty to drag on for years by not taking the steps
necessary to become legal.

The legalization process is not easy, but no one said it is supposed to be.
Perhaps the same can be said for staying in the center of an emotional debate
that makes trying to be fair and reasonable nearly impossible.

Ruben Navarrette of the San Diego Union Tribune writes a nationally syndicated
column. His e-mail address is ruben. navarrette@uniontrib.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday

Get real, and get willing to get right with the law

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 780 words



SAN DIEGO
Last week's immigration marches in several of the country's largest cities were
actually helpful. They showed that - despite the nativist sound bites on the far
right - the answer to our immigration woes is no more likely to come from the
radical left.
Speaking of nativist sound bites, there are commentators such as CNN's Lou Dobbs
who are more part of the problem than part of the solution. Until late last
week, Dobbs had been using his network's Web site to raise money for the "legal
defense fund" of Hazleton, Pa., which banned landlords there from renting to
illegal immigrants. After the New York-based National Institute for Latino
Policy complained that Dobbs was "misusing the resources of CNN," the network
abruptly deleted any mention of the fund from the site.
Forget misusing resources. The real problem with a solicitation like this is
that it perpetuated the myth that the good people of Hazleton needed defending
from a problem they helped create by hiring illegal immigrants to do their
chores. The townspeople need to take responsibility.
Trouble is, the marchers seem no more willing to accept their share of
responsibility, either. Most of the comments I heard and read last week from the
participants were arrogant, outrageous, presumptuous and reflected badly on the
entire legalization movement.
And I say that as someone who has come around to the view that immigration
reform must include a path to legal status for illegal immigrants. For many of
the marchers, that path should be a carefree stroll in the park. If I had my
way, it would be more like boot camp.
Look, these people made a choice. They broke the rules and came to the United
States illegally. Now they have to pay for it by making restitution and making
an effort to become part of the American fabric.
That's why I like the outline of the immigration reform plan being pounded out
by the White House and GOP senators, as well as the immigration bill proposed by
Reps. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill. And it's why I've been a
fan of the Hutchison-Pence plan, which was proposed last year by Rep. Mike
Pence, R-Ind., and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas. All of these proposals
include a path of legalization, but with lots of conditions. Illegal immigrants
have to pay fines, or learn English, or even return home for a short time. The
message is clear: "You want the right to live in the United States legally?
Fine. Earn it. Nothing valuable comes easy, and the right to live legally in the
greatest country on Earth is of tremendous value."
No dice, said some of the marchers. One man in Los Angeles told television
reporters that he demanded a "general amnesty without conditions just like in
1986." And forget that business about requiring people to leave the country and
reapply to enter legally. No way was he going to do that, he said.
What a jerk. Here he is getting a gift, and he wants it wrapped with a bow.
Heaven forbid, he'd have to lift a finger.
Another man, also in Los Angeles, acknowledged that he was here illegally and
explained his demands this way: "We want legal status so we can have the same
rights as other people do."
There is his mistake. It's likely that the "other people" he is talking about
are either permanent residents or U.S. citizens. If he wants the rights they
have, let him go through the steps on his own to obtain either status. Then he
can have rights galore, but with responsibilities the way "other people do."
Then there is the old standby, those signs with the slogan: "No human being is
illegal."
OK. But human beings do, on occasion, commit acts that are illegal, and, when
they do, they have to pay for those mistakes. And step one is admitting they
made them.
Many of the more vocal illegal immigrants don't even want to do that much. Maybe
they're embarrassed for having broken the law, and so they prefer to think about
everything they've done right since they got here - raising good kids, starting
businesses, paying taxes.
Aside from the nativists and the media charlatans, a lot of Americans accept
that illegal immigrants have made a contribution. Why else would more than
three-fourths of respondents to a recent USA Today/Gallup poll say that illegal
immigrants ought to have a path to legal status?
This is close to being a done deal. But to seal it, illegal immigrants and those
who presume to speak for them are going to have to get real and express a
willingness to get right with the law. They need to accommodate America instead
of demanding that America accommodate them.
Ruben Navarrette of the San Diego Union Tribune writes a nationally syndicated
column.
His e-mail address is ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 21, 2007 Monday

Richardson joins race for White House in '08

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 979 words



LOS ANGELES - In English and Spanish, New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson on Monday
declared himself a candidate to become the first Hispanic president of the
United States - without the "rock star" status of some of his rivals. The former
congressman and Cabinet secretary said his track record makes him the right
person to lead the country through a pivotal time. He said he would repair the
"ravages" of the Bush administration, beginning with a withdrawal of all U.S.
forces from Iraq and a determination to make diplomacy the primary instrument of
U.S. foreign policy. "With pride, I hope to be the first Latino president of the
United States," he said in Spanish, with cheers from the many supporters in the
room who speak the language. Richardson made the announcement during a news
conference at the Millennium Biltmore Hotel in the same room where he said his
hero, President John Kennedy, accepted the Democratic nomination in 1960.
Immigration debate postponed
WASHINGTON - Senate leaders agreed Monday that they would wait until June to
take final action on a bipartisan plan to give millions of unlawful immigrants
legal status. The measure, which also tightens border security and workplace
enforcement measures, unites a group of influential liberals, centrists and
conservatives and has the backing of the White House, but it has drawn criticism
from across the political spectrum. In a nod to that opposition, Senate leaders
won't seek to complete it before a hoped-for Memorial Day deadline. "It would be
to the best interests of the Senate ... that we not try to finish this bill this
week," said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., as the chamber began
debate on the volatile issue.Israeli-Palestinian clashes widen
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip - Israeli-Palestinian violence escalated dangerously
Monday when Israel killed five militants in airstrikes and hinted that Hamas
political leaders could be their next target. A rocket fired from Gaza killed an
Israeli woman, inviting a harsh response. The woman was the first Israeli to die
in a Palestinian rocket attack since November. Even before the fatal salvo,
Hamas leaders feared for their safety. They turned off their cell phones, stayed
out of official vehicles and reduced their movements as militant groups declared
a state of emergency.MySpace to release offender data
RALEIGH, N.C. - Faced with legal demands from state attorneys general,
MySpace.com said Monday it will release data on registered sex offenders it has
identified and removed from the popular social networking Web site. The company,
citing federal privacy laws, initially rebuffed a demand from North Carolina
Attorney General Roy Cooper and colleagues in seven other states who last week
asked for data on how many registered sex offenders are using the site and where
they live. MySpace agreed Monday to provide the information to all states after
some members of the group filed subpoenas or took other legal actions to demand
it.Carter recasts Bush criticisms
ATLANTA - Former President Jimmy Carter said Monday his remarks were "careless
or misinterpreted" when he said the Bush administration has been the "worst in
history" for its impact around the world. Speaking on NBC's "Today," Carter
appeared to retreat from a statement he made to the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette
for a Saturday story in which he said: "I think as far as the adverse impact on
the nation around the world, this administration has been the worst in history."
Carter said Monday that when he made the comment, he was responding to a
question comparing the Bush administration's foreign policy to that of Richard
Nixon.Gunman had hinted at violence
MOSCOW, Idaho - A gunman suspected of killing three people and himself said
during a court-ordered mental evaluation that if he committed suicide, he would
try to take a large number of people with him, police said Monday. Three months
after that conversation with a psychiatrist, authorities say, Jason Hamilton
shot and killed his wife at her home, then toted two assault rifles to a parking
lot and fired a barrage of bullets into an emergency dispatch center across from
a courthouse. A police officer rushing to the scene late Saturday was killed,
and a deputy and a civilian who tried to help were wounded. Investigators said
Hamilton, 36, also killed sexton Paul Bauer, 62, in an office of the nearby
First Presbyterian Church early Sunday. Officers who stormed the church hours
later found a rifle and ammunition next to Hamilton's body.Bush repeats Gonzales
support
CRAWFORD, Texas - President Bush insisted on Monday that embattled Attorney
General Alberto Gonzales still has his support and denounced Democratic plans
for a no-confidence vote as "pure political theater." "He has done nothing
wrong," Bush said in an impassioned defense of his longtime friend and adviser
during a news conference at his Texas ranch. Despite Bush's comments, support
for Gonzales is eroding, even in the president's own party. The Senate is
prepared to hold a no-confidence vote, possibly by week's end, and five
Republican senators, including Minnesota's Norm Coleman, have joined many Demo-
crats in calling for Gonzales' resignation.Iranian-American is charged
TEHRAN, Iran - Iran on Monday charged a detained Iranian-American academic with
seeking to topple the ruling Islamic establishment, state-run television
reported. Haleh Esfandiari, director of the Middle East Program at the
Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, has been held at Tehran's
notorious Evin Prison since early May. Esfandiari, 67, came to Iran in December
to visit her 93-year-old mother and was prevented from leaving the country when
she tried to go home. State TV said she and the Wilson Center were conspiring
together to topple the government by setting up a network "against the
sovereignty of the country."
- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday

HOW THE POINT SYSTEM WOULD WORK

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 200 words



The Senate immigration bill would evaluate green-card applicants using a
100-point system, with 55 points being the threshold for consideration:*
Employment: Points based on job and its importance to the national interest,
employer recommendation, length of experience, worker's age; 47 points possible
Education: Points based on graduate school or college degrees, high school
diploma or GED, vocational training, apprenticeships; 28 points possible
English and civics: Points based on English fluency and passage of citizenship
tests in English and civics; 15 points possible
Extended family: Points based on applicant's relationship - either an adult
child (age 21 or older) or sibling - to a U.S. citizen or legal permanent
resident; 10 points possible
Total points possible: 100
The point system would not apply to workers covered under the proposed temporary
"Z visa" program for current illegal immigrants unless they applied for green
cards to stay in the U.S. full time. In that case, they would be eligible for up
to 50 extra points based on how long they have worked in the U.S., particularly
in agriculture, and whether they own homes or have family health insurance.
* Figure could change over time.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday

Branching out: MoneyGram expands reach overseas

BYLINE: BY NICOLE GARRISON-SPRENGER Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 832 words


With immigrants at the center of a national debate, one might expect businesses
like MoneyGram International that cater to foreign workers to be suffering.

After all, Latin American immigrants, especially Mexicans living in the United
States, historically have been the bread and butter of money-transfer services
like MoneyGram and its rival Western Union, sending billions of dollars to their
families back home through such companies. As the U.S. has stepped up its
efforts to enforce immigration laws in recent months, money-transfer rates have
slowed.

"It's affected all the players," said Anthony Ryan, president of MoneyGram
Global Payment Products and Services.

Yet MoneyGram executives and the industry analysts that follow the company
aren't as worried as they would have been five years ago. Mexico and Latin
America still are important markets to the St. Louis Park-based company, but
their importance is waning as MoneyGram expands outside North America.

"They are branching out into other locations and have decreased their dependence
on the Mexico-U.S. channel, which happens to be very much under pressure right
now," said Josh Elving, an analyst with Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray.

Money transferred to Mexico from the U.S. grew 27 percent in the first quarter
of 2006 compared with the same quarter a year earlier, according to the
Inter-American Development Bank. By the fourth quarter of 2006, however, the
growth rate slowed to only 5 percent. The amount of money transferred so far
this year is essentially flat.

It's not entirely clear why transfers have slowed. Some industry observers have
suggested the slump in home building, which employs a number of Mexican workers,
might be cutting into what immigrants are able to send home.

Others, like Donald Terry, manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund at the
IADB, are more inclined to place the blame on government raids targeting illegal
immigrants and on growing confusion about proposed changes to immigration law.
Many immigrants simply have stopped sending money to their families through
"above-board" channels for fear of being caught and deported, he said. They
probably still are sending money, but they've gone underground.

Fortunately for MoneyGram, the company is not nearly as dependent on Mexico as
it used to be.

In 2000, Mexico accounted for roughly one-fourth of MoneyGram's transactions.
Last year, only 11 percent of the company's transactions came from that market.

The company has been aggressive about its expansion, nearly doubling the number
of agents through which it does business worldwide since 2002, to 114,000.
Agents typically are retailers like video-rental stores, markets and tobacco
shops. Western Union, the global leader in the money-transfer market, operates
through a network of about 300,000 locations.

Much of MoneyGram's distribution growth has been in Asia, Africa and the Indian
subcontinent. Between 2002 and 2006, the number of MoneyGram locations in those
regions jumped 266 percent to 22,000, while the number of locations in the U.S.
and Canada grew only about 53 percent.

Those are precisely the numbers Elving, the Piper Jaffray analyst, wants to see.

"To the extent MoneyGram can build out its network in India and China, they are
going to ... show significant growth for a long time," he said.

The company's goal moving forward is to expand its agent network by 15 to 20
percent a year and hit more than 200,000 agent locations by 2010.

"There are lots of locations yet to be had," Ryan said, adding that many places
today have no money-transfer services at all.

But expanding the agent network is an expensive proposition. While MoneyGram's
revenue has been strong, growing 19 percent in 2006 to top $1 billion for the
first time, margins have narrowed in the last couple of quarters. In the fourth
quarter of 2006, profit dropped almost 11 percent compared with the year before,
and profit in the first quarter of 2007 edged down 3.5 percent.

Nonetheless, it's a worthwhile investment, Elving said.

"If it were me I'd want to pour every penny into building out more distribution
locations," he said.

MoneyGram also is spending more on advertising and marketing in its new markets.
In 2006, the company spent 39 percent more on marketing than it did the previous
year.

Besides buying up airtime and billboard space, the company is plowing cash into
gussying up agents' locations in order to attract more customers. From painting
the entire facade red - MoneyGram's signature color - to putting up red awnings,
MoneyGram is making its mark across the globe.

The "red shop" strategy started in the United Kingdom a few years ago and proved
successful, said Ann Jackson, vice president of market development for
MoneyGram. The company now has converted hundreds of agent locations across the
world into red shops.

"It's better than any billboard," she said. "It's a permanent advertisement."

Nicole Garrison-Sprenger can be reached at 651-228-5580 or
ngarrisonsprenger@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 11, 2007 Monday

Same hunger, different diets

BYLINE: BY MARY BAUER Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Breaking

LENGTH: 924 words


Move over, mac and cheese. The local food shelf could use a little fufu.

Twin Cities' food banks and food shelves are racing to stock more ethnic foods
to keep up with the area's growing number of new immigrants.

"Not all rice is created equal," said Renae Oswald-Anderson, vice president of
community building at Neighborhood House, a community center on St. Paul's West
Side that includes a food shelf.

"The vast majority of our participants do not speak English as a first
language," she said. "They're immigrants and refugees."

But getting enough fufu, an African porridge, to go around is proving no easy
task. Although the Midwest is growing more culturally diverse - 11.8 percent of
Minnesotans say they're from a nonwhite ethnic group - food donations are not.

Food shelf organizers say they don't have enough ethnic items to go around,
which means they have to buy them. They're launching a variety of efforts to
diversify donations and to teach newcomers how to love Spam and Cheerios.

Providing culturally specific food is essential to feeding recent immigrants for
nutritional and emotional reasons, food shelf organizers say.

Over time, newcomers assimilate and learn to incorporate new foods into their
diet. But in the beginning, people can go hungry despite a cupboard full of
items from a food shelf, said Mustafa Sundiata, food shelf coordinator for
NorthPoint Health and Wellness Center Inc. in North Minneapolis.

They don't know how to prepare the foods or eat them, he said.

"For the average person, mac and cheese is not a problem - unless you just came
from Laos and you're used to cooking in a pot over an open fire," Sundiata said.

And don't underestimate the power of comfort food. Many of their clients have
endured suffering and loss to come to the United States, food shelf workers
said. When you're homesick, you want food just the way Mom made it, with basmati
rice.

"It's what you are used to in your diet," said Annette Bauer, public relations
director for the northern division of the Salvation Army, which operates five
food shelves in the Twin Cities. "And at the beginning, when they first get
here, it's what we can do to make them comfortable."

The glitch lies in how the food chain filters down to the needy. About 70
percent of the food for Second Harvest Heartland, the largest food bank in the
Midwest, comes from donations, said Heidi Stennes, director of communications
for the bank. The organization distributes food to 950 agencies and food
shelves.

Shelves at its Maplewood warehouse are packed with misprinted labels, product
line overruns and flavors that didn't pan out. Those foods come through
established relationships with large food manufacturers like Hormel and Nestle,
Stennes said.

While they're making inroads, banks have fewer partnerships with ethnic food
manufacturers and specialty grocery stores, she said.

"Here in the Midwest, there aren't large producers of ethnic foods," Stennes
said. "Most of the ethnic food, we have to buy."

A lot of ethnic foods are imports. Specialty importers are often small family
businesses that can't afford to give away food on the same scale as Kraft, said
Oswald-Anderson.

"African-style foods like plantain or fufu are not hard to find," said Sundiata,
who manages the largest standalone food shelf in Minnesota. "We have importers
who import that kind of thing. But it's difficult getting them to donate to the
food bank because these foods are very, very expensive."

On the small-donor side, people give what they eat, Bauer said. And food shelves
are not well connected in ethnic populations.

"We're beginning to ask, 'How do we reach out to donors who are diverse?' " she
said.

Neighborhood House recently organized a workshop on culturally sound food shelf
practices and produced a workbook for donors that lists ethnic items found at
any large chain grocery. The reception has been positive, she said.

"You can go to Cub Foods and Rainbow and find fish sauce on the shelves,"
Oswald-Anderson said. "So we can encourage donors to purchase those things for
families."

Sundiata said he believes that eventually, the supply side will catch up.
Meanwhile, food banks and food shelves must buy ethnic foods themselves. Second
Harvest Heartland is applying for grants to buy ethnic foods. The Salvation Army
gives out food vouchers its clients can use at neighborhood groceries.
Neighborhood House buys in bulk, repackaging 100-pound bags of specialty rice
into 2-pound bags.

The long-term solution is education, Sundiata and others said. The larger food
shelves have education programs designed to teach nutrition, menu planning and
food preparation. Neighborhood House offers recipes that incorporate typical
food-shelf fare into ethnic dishes.

"We need to take what we have and teach everybody how to use it," Sundiata said.
"If we'd spend our money that way, we'd come out better than trying to import
these culturally specific expensive foods."

Mary Bauer can be reached at mbauer@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5311.

OLD STANDBYS

Food items on the typical food bank want list:


     ·    Macaroni and cheese mixes



     ·    Pasta



     ·    Soup



     ·    Peanut butter



     ·    Fresh fruits and vegetables



     ·    Cereal



     ·    Bread



     ·    100 percent fruit juices


NEW FAVORITES

Culturally specific items sought at food banks and food shelves:


     ·    Different kinds of rice: basmati, jasmine, saffron and brown rice



     ·    Beans of all kinds



     ·    Meat that is halal, certified for the Muslim community



     ·    Fufu, an African porridge



     ·    Plantains



     ·    Fresh fruits and vegetables



     ·    Guilin rice noodles



     ·    Bean thread



     ·    Soy milk or beverages



     ·    White gourd juice



     ·    Corn meal, corn flour and corn oil



     ·    Fish sauce


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday

Minn. food shelves need more diverse donations for immigrants

BYLINE: By MARY BAUER St. Paul Pioneer Press

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 835 words


ST. PAUL Move over, mac and cheese. The local food shelf could use a little
fufu.

Twin Cities' food banks and food shelves are racing to stock more ethnic foods
to keep up with the area's growing number of new immigrants. "Not all rice is
created equal," said Renae Oswald-Anderson, vice president of community building
at Neighborhood House, a community center on St. Paul's West Side that includes
a food shelf.

"The vast majority of our participants do not speak English as a first
language," she said. "They're immigrants and refugees." But getting enough fufu,
an African porridge, to go around is proving no easy task. Although the Midwest
is growing more culturally diverse 11.8 percent of Minnesotans say they're from
a nonwhite ethnic group food donations are not.

Food shelf organizers say they don't have enough ethnic items to go around,
which means they have to buy them. They're launching a variety of efforts to
diversify donations and to teach newcomers how to love Spam and Cheerios.
Providing culturally specific food is essential to feeding recent immigrants for
nutritional and emotional reasons, food shelf organizers say.

Over time, newcomers assimilate and learn to incorporate new foods into their
diet. But in the beginning, people can go hungry despite a cupboard full of
items from a food shelf, said Mustafa Sundiata, food shelf coordinator for
NorthPoint Health and Wellness Center Inc. in North Minneapolis. They don't know
how to prepare the foods or eat them, he said.

"For the average person, mac and cheese is not a problem unless you just came
from Laos and you're used to cooking in a pot over an open fire," Sundiata said.
And don't underestimate the power of comfort food. Many of their clients have
endured suffering and loss to come to the United States, food shelf workers
said. When you're homesick, you want food just the way Mom made it, with basmati
rice.

"It's what you are used to in your diet," said Annette Bauer, public relations
director for the northern division of the Salvation Army, which operates five
food shelves in the Twin Cities. "And at the beginning, when they first get
here, it's what we can do to make them comfortable." The glitch lies in how the
food chain filters down to the needy. About 70 percent of the food for Second
Harvest Heartland, the largest food bank in the Midwest, comes from donations,
said Heidi Stennes, director of communications for the bank. The organization
distributes food to 950 agencies and food shelves.

Shelves at its Maplewood warehouse are packed with misprinted labels, product
line overruns and flavors that didn't pan out. Those foods come through
established relationships with large food manufacturers like Hormel and Nestle,
Stennes said. While they're making inroads, banks have fewer partnerships with
ethnic food manufacturers and specialty grocery stores, she said.

"Here in the Midwest, there aren't large producers of ethnic foods," Stennes
said. "Most of the ethnic food, we have to buy." A lot of ethnic foods are
imports. Specialty importers are often small family businesses that can't afford
to give away food on the same scale as Kraft, said Oswald-Anderson.

"African-style foods like plantain or fufu are not hard to find," said Sundiata,
who manages the largest standalone food shelf in Minnesota. "We have importers
who import that kind of thing. But it's difficult getting them to donate to the
food bank because these foods are very, very expensive." On the small-donor
side, people give what they eat, Bauer said. And food shelves are not well
connected in ethnic populations.

"We're beginning to ask, 'How do we reach out to donors who are diverse?'" she
said. Neighborhood House recently organized a workshop on culturally sound food
shelf practices and produced a workbook for donors that lists ethnic items found
at any large chain grocery. The reception has been positive, she said.

"You can go to Cub Foods and Rainbow and find fish sauce on the shelves,"
Oswald-Anderson said. "So we can encourage donors to purchase those things for
families." Sundiata said he believes that eventually, the supply side will catch
up. Meanwhile, food banks and food shelves must buy ethnic foods themselves.
Second Harvest Heartland is applying for grants to buy ethnic foods. The
Salvation Army gives out food vouchers its clients can use at neighborhood
groceries. Neighborhood House buys in bulk, repackaging 100-pound bags of
specialty rice into 2-pound bags.

The long-term solution is education, Sundiata and others said. The larger food
shelves have education programs designed to teach nutrition, menu planning and
food preparation. Neighborhood House offers recipes that incorporate typical
food-shelf fare into ethnic dishes. "We need to take what we have and teach
everybody how to use it," Sundiata said. "If we'd spend our money that way, we'd
come out better than trying to import these culturally specific expensive
foods."

Information from: St. Paul Pioneer Press, http://www.twincities.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 18, 2007 Monday

Native language media are vital to immigrants

BYLINE: RUBÉN ROSARIO

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Ruben Rosario; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 716 words


SAN JOSE, Calif. - The finely brushed hair and polished skin. A gray suit
hinting at the slimmer - but still impressive - physique flexing inside.

And those green, expensive-looking cowboy boots gleaming from the brightness of
the overhead spotlights inside the California Theatre.

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is the undisputed fittest and
coolest-looking governor. But he kicked off the 25th annual convention of the
National Association of Hispanic Journalists last week by putting those boots in
his mouth. By now, most folks know what he said.

"You have to turn off the Spanish television set," the governor said. "I know
this sounds odd, it's not the politically correct thing to say, and I'm getting
myself into trouble. But I know that when I came to this country, I did not or
very rarely spoke German anymore."

I was in the audience that evening. Up to that point, the Gubernator was
sounding, well, gubernatorial in front of hundreds of Latino journalists from
across the nation.

A Republican, he has drawn criticism from his more conservative party members
for his support of immigration reform, although he said he would not sign the
current bill in debate as currently drawn up. He believes in universal health
care coverage for Californians, including children of undocumented immigrants.

He sees the dangers posed by global warming, and drew chuckles in acknowledging
that he drives and owns five Hummers, though some are "green.''

Office holders, he said, should be "public servants rather than party
servants.''

His TV comments came in response to a question as to why one third of immigrant
children in California fail a mandatory but controversial state high school
English exam that affects graduation.

Given that many in the crowd included Spanish language media representatives,
the comment raised eyebrows, passions and blood pressures.

Some denounced him. Others, like myself, factored Schwarzenegger's track record
of occasionally blurting out half-baked pabulum before the brain is fully able
to digest and filter it through. So I gave him some slack.

"He's compassionate about immigration, but he's no-nonsense about it," said
Gustavo Arellano, a staff writer at the Orange County Weekly. "You can't peg
him."

Well, let me try. Schwarzenegger believes folks who come here, or to any country
for that matter, are at an employment, education and economic disadvantage if
they don't learn the language.

Absolutely no argument here. He believes the best way to learn the language is
to completely and totally immerse oneself in the language one is learning, as he
says he did when he came here. I agree, since that's what happened to me when I
came from Puerto Rico at the age of 5.

But he thinks that turning off Spanish TV is a good way to help achieve that
English speaking goal. The two, however, are not mutually incompatible. On this,
Schwarzenegger is ignorant or forgetful of history, both that of his own people
as well as linguistic assimilation.

Native language newspapers, TV and radio programs are critical in helping
newcomers navigate through a new society and culture. There were, for example,
German newspapers and German-only schools in Minnesota in the late 1800s.

But a vast body of evidence and numerous studies point to the fact that children
of immigrants begin embracing English - through school and acculturation - even
as first generation arrivals. By the second generation, English already has
become the dominant language, so much so that many can't even speak their
parents' native language.

Also, the fact that there are long waiting lists across the country to enroll in
adult English classes should dispel the perception that most immigrants don't
want to learn the language.

Actually, Schwarzenegger should support turning on Spanish TV, or Japanese TV or
German or Chinese TV - not junk, of course, but quality programs. What we need
more of in this country are young Americans who can speak at least two
languages, in order to better compete on the global market or stage with foreign
peers who already speak two if not three or more languages.

That's what you really wanted and meant to say, Arnold, right? Hasta la vista,
baby.

The Latino Reporter contributed to this story.

Rubén Rosario can be reached at 651-228-5454 or rrosario@pioneer  press.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday

There's more to talk about

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 677 words


In discussions of what belongs in the immigration bill, I have heard no mention
of a significant factor: war refugees. Think about the impact of the meltdown of
the formerly conjoined Iraqi population.

Assuming the current conflict will lurch to a halt at some point, will St. Paul
receive sufficient federal help to pay for the impact on our schools? Will
Congress help us with counseling and medical services for the children of
sectarian violence and all the physical and emotional horrors they will have
witnessed during the U.S. occupation?

Will we get funds to create sufficient social services to help Sunni and Shia
settle here without gang violence?

Take a look at the struggles of Vietnamese, Cambodian, Hmong, and Somali
refugees who now call St. Paul home. Then ask where we can find financial and
institutional support if we open our arms again. We have not finished our
discussion of immigration.

LINDA BRYAN

Maplewood

A puff of

anti-anxiety?

Good for Angel Cabrera and his success in winning the 2007 U.S. Open ("Unlikely
Angel," June 18). He has proven that we don't need bottles of Prozac and
high-paid therapists to handle our day-to-day stress. Many times, all we really
need to deal with pressure and anxiety is one big puff of the cigarette. Maybe
all this politically correct hysteria about beating up of big tobacco is
unjustified after all.

JOHN OCZAK

Woodbury

Really support

our troops

Do we "support our troops"? Why must our service people both active and retired
resort to many forms of direct-mail solicitation for everything from craft kits
for the wounded to proper medical care for our service people who have
sacrificed for all of us?

This lack of support is particularly appalling when you consider that our
leaders in the House and Senate enjoy ample pay with frequent raises, superior
medical benefits and very generous pensions enacted by the stroke of a pen.

Our representatives support themselves; how about really supporting our troops?

ARNIE AND MARLYS WEBER

White Bear Lake

Cats and birds

I found "St. Paul Spike's" reveling in the reminiscence of backyard songbird
butchery in Bulletin Board (June 15) distressing, especially after reading about
the plummeting numbers of birds ("Minnesota bird populations plummet as habitats
shrink" June 15).

There are more than 90 million cats in the U.S. The majority roam outside, at
least part time. Scientists estimate these cats kill upward of 100 million birds
and a billion other small vertebrates every year. Natural predators such as
foxes and bobcats starve because of the decimation of their food source by the
nonnative domestic cat.

To learn more about programs that educate and encourage humane cat ownership,
log on to www.abcbirds. org/cats. There is nothing humorous about cats under a
birdbath; it is cruel to both cats and birds.

Longtime cat owner and lover,

PHOEBE CUSHMAN

Mendota Heights

Proud of Adam

I was so glad to see your article on Adam Bergman's return to bicycle racing
("Ride to redemption," June 19).

I was fortunate enough to be one of Adam's Nordic ski coaches at Forest Lake
High School, and I can say without hesitation that he was one of the most
talented, hardworking, humble and just plain nicest guys I coached. It is
incredibly tough to compete at sports at such a high level and even tougher to
go through the challenges Adam has. I was proud of him then and I am proud of
him now. I will always cheer for you, Adam!

MARTA WILSON CHRISTMANN

White Bear Lake

Greenspan

should shut up

I think the U.S. government needs to come up with a method to silence Alan
Greenspan. Perhaps a muzzle would work nicely or somehow he could be paid to
keep his mouth shut.

It seems every time the former Fed chairman makes a public comment about the
economy, the financial markets react immediately. It happened again on June 12,
when both the Dow and the Nasdaq dropped significantly due in part to
Greenspan's comments. One man should not be able to influence the market as he
does.

He should either learn to shut up or the U.S. government should force him to
shut up.

JERRY BLANK

Apple Valley

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

ICE deports man convicted of sexually assaulting girl, 3

BYLINE: BY NANCY YANG Pioneer Press

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 240 words


An 18-year-old man on Wednesday was deported to Mexico after being convicted of
sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl at his family's daycare center.

Reyes Salazar-Clara on June 13 was convicted of second-degree criminal sexual
conduct. Salazar-Clara is a citizen of Mexico who illegally entered the United
States in June 2005, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said.

The deportation is part of the agency's Operation Predator, a four-year
initiative aimed at those who sexually exploit children.

According to a criminal complaint, police were called to the Hennepin County
Medical Center on Feb. 21, where they found a 3-year-old girl suffering from a
cut and other injuries stemming from sexual assault.

An investigation led to Salazar-Clara's arrest.

Earlier this month, he pleaded guilty to second-degree criminal sexual conduct
and was sentenced to 36 months in prison, which was stayed.

Federal officials took custody of Salazar-Clara on June 19.

To date, Operation Predator has led to to more than 10,000 arrests. Of that,
more than 8,600 were foreign national sex offenders whose crimes make them
deportable. So far, more than 5,500 have been deported.

Through Operation Predator, immigration and customs enforcement officials target
child pornographers, child sex tourists and facilitators, human smugglers and
traffickers of minors and those deported for child exploitation offenses who
have illegally re-entered the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 10, 2007 Tuesday

Greeley, Colo. / Swift & Co. plants hit by more raids

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 176 words


Agents with Immigration and Customs Enforcement returned to at least one Swift &
Co. meatpacking plant Tuesday with arrest warrants for people suspected of
identity theft in an operation that garnered union support.

Officials with the United Food and Commercial Workers Union said agents did not
appear to use the "same level of intimidation and overkill" as raids in December
that resulted in more than 1,200 immigrant workers being arrested at plants in
six cities.

"To the extent this is the case, the UFCW supports law enforcement efforts that
abide by the law and respect the rights of workers," the Washington-based union
said in a statement.

ICE regional spokesman Carl Rusnok confirmed one "worksite enforcement
operation" in Greeley but would not say how many people were arrested.

Dave Minshall, spokesman for Local No. 7, said agents had at least 40 arrest
warrants for suspects in Greeley; Cactus, Texas; Marshalltown, Iowa; and
Worthington, Minn. Five people were taken into custody, though it was unclear
where the arrests were made.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday

Why terrorists target Europe over U.S.

BYLINE: BY MATTHEW SCHOFIELD McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 664 words


LONDON - From the moment emergency workers spotted the bomb-laden car earlier
this month in London's crowded West End, it was clear that for the fourth
straight year, this city was being targeted for a major terrorist attack.

Yet, Britain isn't the "Great Satan" to al-Qaida extremists. Terrorism experts
agree that for al-Qaida operatives and sympathizers, the preferred villain is
the United States.

So why do attacks keep happening here? And how, since the horror of Sept. 11,
has America avoided another assault?

Karl-Heinz Kamp, the security policy coordinator at Germany's Konrad Adenauer
Foundation, said it's easy to understand how.

"The U.S. has a historical advantage; America is still the land of opportunity
to the whole world. The people moving there believe the American dream of social
mobility," he said. "In Europe, we've historically treated our immigrants as
hired help and waited for them to finish the work they arrived for and go home."

Bob Ayers, a security and terrorism expert with London's Chatham House, a
foreign-policy research center, thinks immigrants to the U.S. become Americans,
giving the United States an advantage in avoiding homegrown al-Qaida terrorists.
Europeans encourage immigrants to retain their native cultures, causing them to
be ostracized more readily.

"The Islamic population in the United States is better assimilated into the
general population, whereas here, in Germany, in France, they're very much on
the outside looking in," he said. "When people get disaffected, sadly, there's
not much loyalty to (the) country in that sort of situation."

Experts, noting that success against terrorism can be temporary, agree there are
other reasons.

The United States is geographically more separate from the Middle East, the home
of Islamic fundamentalism. Beyond that, especially since Sept. 11, the U.S. has
cracked down on both travel and new-resident visas, making it hard for
terrorists from outside to get into the country.

Magnus Ranstorp, the chief scientist at the Swedish Defense College, said U.S.
efforts to track down everything involved in terrorism, particularly funding,
had made it difficult for terrorists to operate in America.

"The United States is so difficult to crack. They have to have established
operatives living inside the country to be effective," he said. "To date, they
haven't shown themselves. The truth is, while it's not the al-Qaida Great Satan,
Europe is a much easier place to move around."

Yet experts agree that British security services are professional, and, as Ayers
noted, "getting better and better at what they do with all the practice they've
had since July 2005," when suicide bombers hit London's transit system.

Last month, British police admitted to spot-checking gasoline and chemical
tanker trucks entering London as part of a continuing "day-to-day effort to
disrupt, deter and prevent terrorism." On July 8, a Bolton man was sentenced to
nine years for keeping a "terror library" on his computer, much of it downloaded
from a password-protected al-Qaida Web site.

The major conspiracies in England, however, began with a fertilizer-bomb plot
uncovered in spring 2004 to detonate low-tech bombs at a shopping center, sports
venue and nightclub, among other places. Five men were sentenced to life in
prison two months ago.

On July 7, 2005, four suicide bombers - three on subway trains and one on a
double-decker bus - killed 52 commuters in the deadliest terrorist attack in
British history. Two weeks later, another attack failed when backpack bombs
didn't detonate.

Last summer, security forces said they'd uncovered a plan to build bombs from
liquids taken onto planes in order to blow up trans-Atlantic jetliners. Fifteen
people have been charged with terrorism offenses in that case.

In the attacks this month, police found and deactivated two car bombs in London
before two men in a flaming Jeep Cherokee loaded with gas and gasoline canisters
rammed into the airport entryway in Glasgow, Scotland.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday

Washington / Activists allege Hmong reprisals

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 236 words


Supporters of the Hmong community said Tuesday that indictments against Hmong
leaders in California in an alleged coup conspiracy were backfiring against
Laotian refugees overseas.

The government of Thailand forcibly repatriated about 160 Hmong refugees to Laos
shortly after several Hmong immigrants in California, including former Laotian
Gen. Vang Pao, were charged last month with plotting to overthrow the communist
government of Laos.

Thailand's Foreign Ministry has said the expulsions of Hmong asylum-seekers were
not related to the charges. Rather, it said the moves were simply in line with
the government's policy to expel people it considers illegal immigrants.

But activists led by Philip Smith, a longtime advocate for Hmong causes who has
represented Vang Pao and others, said during a congressional briefing that there
was a direct connection.

"Whatever the outcome of that trial, whatever the merits, whatever the truth ...
the fact is, on that very day the repatriation policy began," said Smith,
executive director of the Center for Public Policy Analysis, a Washington group
that advocates for democracy in Laos.

Ethnic Hmong remaining in Thailand were relocated last month from makeshift
dwellings into a compound surrounded by barbed wire. A report in Thailand's The
Nation newspaper last week said Thailand would begin a new round of Hmong
repatriations to Laos within two months.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday

St. Paul / 15 children added to lawsuit over raid

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 248 words


Fifteen children were added Thursday to a lawsuit Willmar, Minn., residents
brought against the federal government over an immigration raid in April that
resulted in dozens of arrests.

The children's rights were violated when federal agents entered the homes of
their parents without search warrants or permission, according to the amended
complaint filed in U.S. District Court.

At a news conference Thursday, plaintiffs' attorney Gloria Contreras-Edin, of
the immigrant rights group Centro Legal, read one boy's account of being
forcibly removed from his mother's arms by agents after they entered his house.

"That's who the government should be protecting - not violating their civil
rights," she said of the children.

The case now involves 53 plaintiffs, including 16 children.

More than 50 illegal immigrants were arrested in the April raid in Willmar,
where many Hispanics work at a poultry processor owned by Austin-based Hormel
Foods Corp.

Investigators with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said several of
those arrested falsely claimed to be Puerto Rican citizens. Eighteen had
criminal convictions.

The plaintiffs claim agents broke into homes and randomly stopped Hispanics and
characterize the arrests as an illegal campaign of "terror and intimidation." In
their amended complaint, they also accuse 17 additional law enforcement officers
of wrongdoing.

Customs spokesman Tim Counts reiterated Thursday that agents involved in the
raid acted within the law.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 30, 2007 Monday

NEXT WAVE OF AMERICAN DREAMERS

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 803 words


BY MARK JEWELL ASSOCIATED PRESS

BILLERICA, Mass. - Patricia Ortiz and her husband Sebastian cut back on dining
out, nights at the movies, and even opted for a civil wedding ceremony instead
of a big church affair so they could afford to buy their $389,000 three-bedroom
colonial.

In doing so, the Panamanian natives helped lift the nation's slumping housing
market.

With rising purchasing power, the nation's growing number of foreign-born
residents is keeping the bottom from falling out. And amid slow demand from an
aging and slow-growing native population, immigrants are fueling predictions of
a rebound.

Assuming Congress doesn't impose further restrictions, immigrants - both legal
and illegal - and their native-born children are forecast to provide the bulk of
coming years' growth in homebuying demand, nudging the market back up and aiding
the broader economy.

U.S. household growth from 2005 through 2015 is projected to reach about 14.6
million - about 2 million greater than in 1995-2005 - primarily because of
greater numbers of immigrants, according to a recent analysis by Harvard
University's Joint Center for Housing Studies. Most native-born children of
immigrants are classified as minorities, and minorities' share of new U.S.
households - a key driver of housing demand - is expected to rise from a little
more than two-thirds now to more than three-quarters by 2020, according to an
earlier Harvard study.

"As we come out of this housing recession, immigrants will continue to have an
ever-larger role," said Dowell Myers, a University of Southern California
professor who studies immigrants' upward mobility. "If you were to stop
immigration, it would be devastating, because it would eventually pull this huge
chunk out of the housing market's foundation."

For immigrants who've left behind their families and cultures for a chance at a
better life, homebuying is another risk worth taking. Patricia Ortiz and her
husband took out an adjustable-rate mortgage to buy last year in the Boston
suburb of Billerica, figuring the risk of seeing their current $3,000 monthly
payments rise is offset by the value of having a place they and their newborn
daughter can call home.

"Once you take the jump, you find ways to make it work," said Ortiz, 31, a
supervisor at a dental-insurance provider and a naturalized citizen. "But it's
always in the back of my mind that if I don't make it, I am going to have to
pack up and go back to Panama. You kind of feel like you have to strive for
everything you do."

Immigrants formed more than 40 percent of the new households the nation added
from 2000 to 2005, up from a less than 30 percent share of net new households in
the 1990s and about 15 percent in the 1980s, the Harvard center found in its
latest annual housing market study.

"The number of new homes being built is sensitive to the number of households
added, which is why immigration is so important to the housing market," said
Eric Belsky, the center's executive director.

From 2000 to 2005, the nation added more than 1.2 million immigrants per year,
the Harvard study found. That boosted the nation's foreign-born to more than 12
percent of overall population, a level last seen in the 1930s.

Although immigrants remain less likely to own a home and more likely to rent
than native-born people, the Harvard study found that the foreign-born accounted
for 13.8 percent of all homebuyers in 2005 who had moved in within the preceding
four years, up from 11.4 percent in 2001.

The numbers are much higher in some immigrant-rich states. In California, nearly
one-third of recent homebuyers were foreign-born in 2005. For New York, New
Jersey and Florida, the figures were between one-quarter and one-fifth.

Beyond the numbers, names tell the story: In 2000, the most common surnames
among U.S. homebuyers were Smith, Johnson, Brown, Williams and Miller. In 2005,
Rodriguez and Garcia bumped out Brown and Miller, according to DataQuick
Information Systems, a San Diego firm that analyzed deeds and county assessment
data records across most of the U.S.

Immigrants tend to be younger than the native-born residents, and thus are more
likely to be at an age when they're looking for starter homes.

"Immigrants are buying up the bottom of the housing market," said Myers, the USC
professor. "And if the bottom is soft, prices collapse. "

Looking more than a decade ahead, immigrants and their children are being
counted on to buy up much of the forecasted glut of homes for sale when baby
boomers enter their 70s - an age when many will move to retirement communities
and assisted living centers or die.

"There are not going to be enough white, native-born people to buy all those
homes," said Myers, the USC professor. "It's their kids that are going to be the
ones who save us when the baby boomers are going to retire."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 3, 2007 Friday

Minneapolis / Man convicted of immigration fraud

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 243 words


A federal jury on Friday convicted Mohamad Kamal Elzahabi of possessing
fraudulent immigration documents, the U.S. attorney's office said.

Elzahabi, 44, was arrested three years ago as part of a terrorism investigation
and has admitted ties to al-Qaida. But he was prosecuted on immigration charges
as prosecutors alleged he used fraud to stay in the United States.

"The integrity of our immigration and citizenship documents must be maintained,"
U.S. Attorney Rachel Paulose said in a written statement after the verdict. "In
this post-9/11 world, the security of our country depends on it."

Prosecutors alleged Elzahabi's 1984 marriage to an exotic dancer in Houston was
a business deal to obtain a green card, with Elzahabi paying her to be his wife
so he could become a legal permanent resident.

Paul Engh, Elzahabi's attorney, had argued that his client, who is Lebanese, had
pure intentions when he married the woman. Engh said Elzahabi's Muslim
background dictated he had to commit to the woman he liked to continue courting
her. He described the payment as a sort of dowry.

According to an FBI affidavit, Elzahabi acknowledged in interviews that he had
attended a jihad training camp, fought as a sniper in Afghanistan as part of
al-Qaida in the early 1990s and had connections to high-ranking members of the
terrorist organization.

U.S. District Judge John R. Tunheim, who heard the case, will set Elzahabi's
sentence at a future hearing.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday

Fewer Mexicans in U.S. sending money home

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Intl Biz Briefing

LENGTH: 655 words


One in three Mexican migrants living in states where Hispanic migration is
relatively new stopped sending money home this year. Anti-immigrant sentiment
may be to blame, the Inter-American Development Bank reported Wednesday. In
states considered "new destination" states for Latinos, such as Georgia,
Pennsylvania and North Carolina, only 56 percent of Mexican migrants said they
sent money home, compared with 80 percent the previous year. Migrants in these
states previously had the highest remittance rate. By contrast, the rate of
remittance for the first six months of this year was 66 percent - down from 68
percent - in states where Latino immigrants have traditionally lived, such as
Texas, California and New Mexico. An estimated 10.4 million Mexican immigrant
adults are living in the U.S., according to the Census Bureau. Overall, 64
percent of Mexicans returned money they earned in the U.S. to their native
country, compared with 71 percent in the first six months of 2006, the bank's
annual survey found. Poultry producer sued over back wages

The Labor Department sued Pilgrim's Pride Corp., the nation's largest poultry
producer, to collect $3 million in back wages that federal officials said
Wednesday are owed to more than 500 current and former workers. Labor Department
officials said Pilgrim's Pride failed to pay overtime wages for the time workers
spent putting on and taking off protective clothing. They also said Pilgrim's
Pride hadn't kept accurate overtime records since August 2005. The Labor
Department said the lawsuit was filed in federal district court in Dallas. It
charged that Pilgrim's Pride violated a federal law requiring that workers get
paid 150 percent of their regular wages for work beyond 40 hours a week. A
spokesman for Pilgrim's Pride, Ray Atkinson, said the company's pay practices
have been upheld by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Atkinson said the
Labor Department audited its Dallas facility last year and didn't demand back
pay for any employees. He said the agency has alleged overtime-law violations at
other poultry companies.Bill allows copyright of fashion designs

When does a knockoff become a ripoff? Designers Nicole Miller and Narciso
Rodriguez joined Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and others on Wednesday, pressing
for a law to battle cheap fashion imitations, saying their works should be
protected by copyright laws just like any other creative art. The bill, which
was introduced in the House of Representatives in April, would allow designers
to sue those who copy their creations for up to $250,000 and to appeal for the
destruction of pirated goods. U.S. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, who joined Schumer at a
news conference at the Fashion Institute of Technology, said current law bans
fashion piracy only if a designer's label is affixed to the fake. Schumer said
the legislation would distinguish between knockoffs and garments that are merely
similar.

BRIEFLY

Blackstone Group has closed Blackstone Capital Partners V LP, the largest buyout
fund ever, at $21.7 billion, and despite the recent red flags in the debt
markets, some of the New York buyout firm's backers say it already may be
thinking about its next offering. ... Peter Pan peanut butter will return to
stores this month with a 100 percent satisfaction guarantee as ConAgra Foods
seeks to reassure customers it has fixed the problems that allowed salmonella to
contaminate the product. ConAgra Foods announced a nationwide recall in February
after federal health officials linked its peanut butter to a salmonella
infection that sickened at least 625 people in 47 states. ... Chicago newspaper
publisher Sun-Times Media Group Inc. cut an unusual deal with one of its biggest
competitors Wednesday, announcing that the Chicago Tribune would deliver its
flagship Chicago Sun-Times and 10 other suburban Chicago newspapers owned by the
company. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.

- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

Omaha, Neb. / Union seeks hearings on meat plant raids

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 232 words


The president of a food workers union is calling for congressional hearings into
tactics federal officials used during immigration raids last year at six Swift &
Co. meatpacking plants.

Top union officials gathered Thursday with Swift workers from plants raided in
December - including one in Minnesota - by U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Joseph Hansen, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers International
Union, said the union will hold hearings around the county to catalog workers'
experiences during the raids.

"No water, no food for hours, standing up there together. Worse than the animals
that are sacrificed there every day," said Delphina Arias, a Swift worker at the
Cactus, Texas, plant. "It was depressing as a U.S. citizen and as a human
being."

Hansen said the workers' rights are under attack and that the union will defend
them.

"At gunpoint, more than 12,000 workers were herded together and systematically
stripped of their rights," Hansen said. "Workers were denied access to
telephones, to bathrooms and legal counsel."

The union said it plans to file a federal lawsuit against ICE for what it called
military tactics that violated the workers' Fourth Amendment protection against
illegal search and seizure.

The raided plants were in Cactus, Texas; Grand Island, Neb.; Greeley, Colo.;
Hyrum, Utah; Marshalltown, Iowa; and Worthington, Minn.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           August 29, 2007 Wednesday

Geographic fact, common interest

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: PP EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 637 words


It has come to our attention that there is a large Spanish-speaking nation about
a 20-hour drive south of Minnesota. We have learned that people from this place
cross our 2,000-mile-long common border to work for U.S. wages. Some of those
Spanish-speaking folks find their way to St. Paul and Minneapolis and
Worthington and Willmar.

This place is called Mexico, and we also are given to understand that it has no
intention of relocating to another part of the globe. As far as we know, that is
also true for the United States. So it appears that Mexico, with its millions of
willing workers, and the U.S., with millions of low-skilled jobs, are pretty
much stuck with each other.

We offer these observations in elementary geography to suggest that Americans in
general and we Minnesotans in particular sometimes act as if we have just
learned where Mexico is. And also to point out that the immigration crisis we
are now struggling with is a result of historical, geographic and economic
forces that aren't going to change overnight, no matter what Congress does with
federal immigration laws.

We continue to hope for a comprehensive federal solution that recognizes
economic realities, restores the rule of law to the immigration system and gives
law-abiding, hard-working immigrants a path to legal residency. But whether this
happens or not, we have to get to know our southern neighbor better.

That has become easier since a Mexican consular office opened on the East Side
of St. Paul two years ago. Mexican citizens can obtain records and documents,
including the matricula consular, a Mexican ID with security features aimed at
foiling the forgers who have had a field day with U.S. documents. Americans
traveling south for study or work can obtain information and visas as well.

The consul, Nathan Wolf, is a native of Mexico City who has served as a
diplomatic adviser in the Mexican presidential palace, known as Los Pinos. He
found that he loves snow and cold, making this posting a good fit. He is on good
terms with local politicians and believes the two nations will remain "neighbors
and friends" and need to figure out a way out of their current immigration
difficulties.

Like brothers, he said, the nations will have their fights but will remain
close. "The U.S. is a lot like a big brother,'' he said. "Sometimes you are
jealous about that, but that doesn't mean you don't love him.''

So repeat after us: Viva Mexico!

Viva trade. Mexico is a top U.S. trading partner - the focus of a 2000 trade
mission by former Gov. Jesse Ventura. We should work hard to build this
business. Could Gov. Tim Pawlenty combine his critique of the immigration system
with a trade mission that would help both countries?

Viva tourism. Beautiful beaches attract our multitudes in the dark months, and
the nation's archaeological ruins are among the wonders of North America.

Viva the economy: Mexican migrants come here to work, many without legal papers.
And they find willing employers. Regardless of the failures of the system that
allows this to happen, the workers have become part of Minnesota's economy.

Viva family values: Mexican families are traditionally close-knit and tend to
congregate around Catholic churches.

No viva bad guys: Some immigrants' shadowy legal status makes them easy pickings
for those who come to victimize. A main reason we need secure IDs and
above-ground status for immigrant workers is so police can focus their efforts
on those who prey on them.

We think it is possible to see the immigration system as the wreck that it is
and to also respect the contributions of those good people who have come here to
work. And when we see those red-white-and-green flags over a market or bakery on
Payne Avenue or Lake Street, we can think of our brother down south. And of our
long-term common interests.

Viva Mexico!

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday

Swiss party's anti-immigrant plan criticized

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1150 words


GENEVA - The nationalist Swiss People's Party is proposing a deportation policy
that anti-racism campaigners say evokes Nazi-era practices. Under the plan,
entire families would be expelled if their children are convicted of a violent
crime, drug offenses or benefits fraud. The party is trying to collect the
100,000 signatures needed to force a referendum on the issue. The party claims
foreigners - who make up about 20 percent of the population - are four times
more likely to commit crimes than Swiss nationals. The U.N. Refugee Agency,
based in Geneva, said the law would run contrary to the U.N. refugee convention,
of which Switzerland is a signatory. But observers say the People's Party's
hardline stance on immigration could help it in the Oct. 21 national elections.
In 2004, the party successfully campaigned for tighter immigration laws using
the image of black hands reaching into a pot filled with Swiss passports. The
party also has put forward a proposal to ban the building of minaret towers
alongside mosques. N.J. suspects could be tried as adults

NEWARK, N.J. - Prosecutors want three teenage boys who are charged in the
execution-style shooting deaths of three college students to be tried as adults.
Essex County prosecutors filed papers Friday to try a 16-year-old and two
15-year-olds as adults. The three are charged in the shooting deaths of three
students at a schoolyard in Newark on Aug. 4. Their names have been withheld by
authorities because of their age. The victims, Iofemi Hightower, 19, Dashon
Harvey, 20, and Terrance Aeriel, 18, were scheduled to attend Delaware State
University this fall. A fourth victim, Natasha Aeriel, was also shot but
survived and has helped investigators track down the suspects. Three other men,
all adults, have also been arrested.FDA approves new smallpox vaccine

WASHINGTON - The approval of a new vaccine against smallpox was announced
Saturday by the Food and Drug Administration, which says the shots could be made
quickly if the virtually extinct virus reappears. The vaccine, ACAM2000, is
intended to inoculate people at high risk of exposure to smallpox, a highly
contagious disease. The FDA said the vaccine also could be used to protect
individuals and populations during a bioterrorist attack. The new vaccine is
derived from the nation's old smallpox vaccine, called Dryvax, which is no
longer made, although there are leftover supplies. ACAM2000 contains live
vaccinia virus, the FDA said, and works by causing a mild infection that
stimulates an immune response that effectively protects against smallpox without
actually causing the disease.Hurricane Felix heads toward Aruba

ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada - Hurricane Felix gathered strength Saturday as it pounded
Grenada with heavy rains and winds, snapped small boats loose from their
moorings and toppled utility poles on its route toward the Caribbean island of
Aruba. The storm was upgraded from a tropical storm to a Category 1 hurricane
Saturday evening, with sustained maximum winds near 75 mph. It was expected to
strengthen even further as it passed near the islands of Aruba, Bonaire and
Curacao late Saturday or early today. Tropical Storm Henriette, meanwhile, was
moving out to sea after dumping rain on Mexico's Pacific coastline. In Acapulco,
the storm loosened a hillside in one of the resort's poor neighborhoods, causing
landslides Saturday that killed six people and prompted evacuations.Hamas men
open fire on supporters

RAFAH, Gaza Strip - Hamas gunmen opened fire on their own supporters Saturday,
killing a teenager at a protest on the Gaza-Egypt border, hospital officials
said. Tens of thousands of flag-waving Hamas supporters gathered at the Rafah
border crossing with Egypt to demand it be reopened. The border, Gaza's only
gateway to Egypt, has been shut since Hamas' bloody takeover of the Gaza Strip
in June. Hamas gunmen guarding the border fired in the air as hundreds of
protesters tried to rush the border terminal and go into Egypt. A 17-year-old
was shot in the head and later pronounced dead, medics said. Seven others were
trampled or wounded by gunfire.Japanese party hit by fresh scandals

TOKYO - Japan's agricultural minister acknowledged Saturday that a private
farming group he leads exaggerated crop damage in order to receive government
compensation, in the latest political scandal to embarrass Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe's administration. The statement came just days after Abe reshuffled his
Cabinet following a humiliating upper house electoral loss in July, blamed on a
spate of scandals within his government. Agriculture Minister Takehiko Endo is
the third agricultural minister to be embroiled in money scandals since May. Two
other scandals emerged Saturday, both involving members of Abe's ruling Liberal
Democratic Party. Vice Foreign Minister Yukiko Sakamoto, a political appointee,
acknowledged her support group faked political funds reports in 2004 and 2005 to
enter fictitious lecture costs, and deputy-chief Cabinet Secretary Mitsuhide
Iwaki said he mistakenly reported fundraising ticket sales as political
donations.Nicaragua asks U.S. for anti-drug aid

MANAGUA, Nicaragua - Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega said Saturday he has
asked the U.S. government to send Central America at least $1 billion in
additional anti-drug aid. The former U.S. foe and Sandinista leader said in a
speech he sent a formal request for the funds to buy helicopters, boats, radar
equipment and anything else necessary to fight drug trafficking in the region. A
U.S. Embassy spokesman declined to comment on Ortega's speech. Washington
already offers Colombia troops and money in its war on drugs under the $5
billion aid package Plan Colombia. Mexico's government is also negotiating a
drug-fighting package with the Bush administration, but details have yet to be
announced. Two weeks ago, Ortega said he did not trust the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration because its operations mask "unexpected interests" and "terrible
things." The DEA has cooperated with Nicaragua's army and the police since
1990.Darfur rebel raid killed 41, Sudan says

KHARTOUM, Sudan - The Sudanese government said Saturday that rebels from Darfur
killed 41 of its soldiers in a raid outside the region, adding to fears that the
conflict is spilling into the rest of Sudan. The raid on a police garrison in
neighboring West Kordofan Province on Wednesday has been claimed by both the
Sudanese Liberation Movement and the Justice and Equality Movement, the two main
rebel movements fighting the government in Darfur for the past three years.
Local residents, however, said that the death toll was closer to 58 people.
Rebels have claimed they held the town for several hours, while the military
maintained the attack was ultimately repulsed. The U.N. mission in Sudan said
Thursday that the violence threatened to further destabilize the country.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Omaha, Neb. / Union to sue over Swift & Co. raids

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 152 words


The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union plans to file a
class-action lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement today, seeking an injunction to stop federal
officials from conducting what the union calls illegal workplace raids.

The lawsuit to be filed in U.S. District Court in Amarillo, Texas, alleges that
federal officials unlawfully detained workers and violated their constitutional
rights during raids of six Swift & Co. meatpacking plants in December, including
one in Worthington, Minn.

ICE officials investigating identity theft arrested more than 1,200 workers at
the plants, but union officials said more than 12,000 workers were detained.

"People were detained ... who did nothing wrong except show up and go to work,"
said Mark Lauritsen, director of the union's food processing, packing and
manufacturing division.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Worthington, Minn. / Union to sue over Swift & Co. raids

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 152 words


The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union plans to file a
class-action lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement today, seeking an injunction to stop federal
officials from conducting what the union calls illegal workplace raids.

The lawsuit to be filed in U.S. District Court in Amarillo, Texas, alleges that
federal officials unlawfully detained workers and violated their constitutional
rights during raids of six Swift & Co. meatpacking plants in December, including
one in Worthington, Minn.

ICE officials investigating identity theft arrested more than 1,200 workers at
the plants, but union officials said more than 12,000 workers were detained.

"People were detained ... who did nothing wrong except show up and go to work,"
said Mark Lauritsen, director of the union's food processing, packing and
manufacturing division.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday

Promoting democratic values and civic integration

BYLINE: GREGORY RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 847 words


Some immigrant-rights activists are afraid the new citizenship test unveiled by
the government two weeks ago will create a new and higher barrier for people who
want to become Americans.

They're wrong. Far from being an exclusionary tool, the new test, which will be
given to legal resident aliens who apply for citizenship after Oct. 1, 2008, is
actually a rare mechanism for immigrant inclusion, the kind our country needs
more of.

It's true that, historically, whenever the government has introduced a new
citizenship exam, it has been responding to shifting national attitudes toward
immigration. And the winds today for immigrants - be they legal or illegal - are
not so friendly. What's more, the government raised the citizenship application
fee from $400 to $675 in July. That wasn't exactly a welcome wagon.

Despite expectations to the contrary, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services lived up to its promise to create a new test that would promote
democratic values and civic integration - and wouldn't be any more difficult
than the old one. The new exam does more than simply measure one's ability to
memorize facts. Instead of asking "What country did we fight during the
Revolutionary War?" for example, the new exam is more likely to ask, "Why did
the colonists fight the British?" It is more about concepts than facts, and it
requires newcomers to learn about what it means to be American, not simply how
many stripes are on the flag or who wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner."

A slew of man-on-the-street news stories over the past few weeks revealed that
plenty of native-born Americans (who are citizens by accident of birth) wouldn't
be able to answer the new questions off the top of their head. Quick: What are
two rights only for United States citizens? (Voting, running for office,
carrying a U.S. passport, holding a federal job.) But that's a meaningless gauge
of the test's difficulty because prospective citizens will be able to study all
100 potential questions and acceptable answers before their oral exam, during
which they must answer six out of 10 questions correctly. So far, of the 6,000
applicants who volunteered to take the new test, 92.4 percent have passed -
higher than the overall 84 percent pass rate for the test we've been using since
1986.

Too easy, you say? Keep in mind that exclusionary tests were used in other eras
to limit immigration and manipulate the ethnic composition of the population. In
the early 20th century, for instance, a literacy test was implemented to impede
arrivals from southern and eastern Europe. This new exam, however, is concerned
with teaching the soon-to-be-naturalized immigrant how to be a good citizen. And
that's a welcome shift in federal policy.

For most of our history, the government has done very little to help immigrants
integrate into the mainstream. For all intents and purposes, federal immigration
policy largely began and ended at the nation's borders. A small number of
political refugees - who come here fleeing persecution - get government
resettlement assistance. But most immigrants are left to their own devices.
Indeed, foreign wars and international crises have fostered more loyalty to the
United States among new arrivals than anything the federal government has done.

Some say that rampant globalization and the movement of millions of people
across borders have rendered the concept of national citizenship obsolete.
Nonsense. They have only made it more important. Citizenship is not just a legal
status that confers rights and benefits. Particularly in a highly diverse nation
such as ours, it is an identity that should give us a sense of a shared fate and
belonging. It also is a license to integrate oneself into American civic culture
and to participate in a remarkable system of self-government.

For the last two generations, the government and schools have stressed the
importance of respecting cultural pluralism. And that's fine and good. But in
this new era of high immigration - 12 percent of today's population is
foreign-born, shy of the 15 percent highs in 1890 and 1910 - it seems critical
for the government to encourage new citizens to identify with our shared
political culture.

Centrifugal forces always have seemed strongest in the United States; we push
outward, toward new frontiers, far suburbs, away from one another. So it might
seem quaint to institute a new civic rite that emphasizes belief in a common
culture. But it's not. The new citizenship test is an important step in the
right direction, and a far cry from the coercive assimilationist programs of the
early 20th century.

With any luck, it'll be one of many new efforts that help Americans - new and
old - balance our healthy regard for cultural pluralism with an equally strong
respect for our shared political culture.

Rodriguez writes a column for the Los Angeles Times. He is the author of
"Mongrels, Bastards, Orphans and Vagabonds: Mexican Immigration and the Future
of Race in America" (Pantheon), which is being published this month. His e-mail
address is grodriguez@latimescolumnists.com/.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 23, 2007 Friday

Looking back at the real Rudy, now running as someone else

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 818 words


Rudy Giuliani can play a little rough at times, but there are some moments when
an inner light turns on and he turns downright idealistic. One of those moments
came on Oct. 10, 1996, as he stepped on the podium at the Kennedy School of
Government to deliver a speech on immigration.

"I'm pleased to be with you this evening to talk about the anti-immigrant
movement in America," he said, "and why I believe this movement endangers the
single most important reason for American greatness, namely, the renewal,
reformation and reawakening that's provided by the continuous flow of
immigrants."

Giuliani continued: "I believe the anti-immigrant movement in America is one of
our most serious public problems." It can "be seen in legislation passed by
Congress and the president." (Republicans had just passed a welfare reform law
that restricted benefits to legal immigrants.) "It can be seen in the negative
attitudes being expressed by many of the politicians."

Giuliani said, somewhat unfairly, that the anti-immigrant movement at that time
continued the fear-mongering and discrimination of the nativist movements of the
1920s and the Know-Nothing movement of the 19th century. He celebrated Abraham
Lincoln for having the courage to take on the anti-immigrant forces. He detailed
the many ways immigration benefits the nation.

Then he turned to the subject of illegal immigration: "The United States has to
do a lot better job of patrolling our borders." But, he continued, "the reality
is, people will always get in."

"In New York City," he said, "we recognize this reality. New York City's policy
toward undocumented immigrants is called 'Executive Order 124.' " This order
protected undocumented immigrants from being reported when they used city
services. Giuliani was then fighting the federal government, which wanted to
reverse it.

"There are times," he declared, "when undocumented aliens must have a
substantial degree of protection." They must feel safe sending their children to
school. They should feel safe reporting crime to the police. "Similarly, illegal
and undocumented immigrants should be able to seek medical help without the
threat of being reported. When these people are sick, they are just as sick and
just as contagious as citizens."

This was a fervent speech. And it's one of many such speeches Giuliani has made
over the years. On Sept. 19, 1995, he delivered an immigration speech at the
United Nations in which he noted, "Sometimes leadership means taking unpopular
positions, rejecting harmful political fads."

Just last year, I saw him passionately deliver remarks at the Manhattan
Institute Hamilton Award Dinner in which he condemned the "punitive approach" to
immigration, "which is reflected in the House legislation that was passed, which
is to make it a crime to be an illegal or undocumented immigrant."

To "deal with it in a punitive way," he said then, "is actually going to make us
considerably less secure than we already are." The better approach, he
continued, is to embrace the Senate's comprehensive reform and to separate the
criminal illegal immigrants from the hard-working ones.

These speeches are the real Rudy. These speeches represent the Rudy who once
went overboard and declared, "If you come here and you work hard and you happen
to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this
city."

This is why Fred Siegel, a Giuliani biographer, accurately called him an
"immoderate centrist." This is why Giuliani won 43 percent of the Hispanic vote
in the mayoral race of 1997. This is why his candidacy once had the potential to
renovate the GOP.

Of course, it hasn't turned out that way. At the moment, Giuliani and fellow
moderate Mitt Romney are attacking each other for being insufficiently
Tancredo-esque. They are not renouncing the policies they championed as city and
state officials, but the emphasis as they run for federal office is all in the
other direction. In effect, they are competing to drive away Hispanic votes and
make the party unelectable in New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, Florida and
the nation at large.

In this way, they are participating in the greatest blown opportunity in recent
political history. At its current nadir, the GOP had been blessed with five
heterodox presidential candidates who had the potential to modernize the party
on a variety of fronts. They could be competing to do that, but instead they are
competing to appeal to the narrowest slice of the old guard and flatter the most
rigid orthodoxies of the Beltway interest groups.

Giuliani could have open-ed the party to the armies of dynamism - the sort of
hard-working strivers who live in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx; instead, he
has shelved one of his core convictions.

Someday, Rudy Giuliani will look back on this moment and wonder why he didn't
run as himself.

David Brooks of the New York Times writes a nationally syndicated column.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday

Hispanic immigrants' kids use more English

BYLINE: BY FRANK GREVE McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 445 words


WASHINGTON - Just like previous immigrant groups, Hispanic immigrants in the
United States speak little English in the first generation, but English
dominates in the lives of the second generation and Spanish fades in the third,
according to a study released Thursday.

The classic pattern, reported by the Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington-based
nonprofit research group, partially counters concerns raised in immigration
debates that Hispanics in the United States will cluster in Spanish-speaking
enclaves rather than assimilate and learn English, as previous immigrant groups
have done.

The study found, however, that Hispanics of Mexican origin - who predominate in
the largest U.S. immigrant influx in a century - are the slowest to adopt
English in succeeding generations.

The study also offered no estimate of how long assimilation might take.

According to Pew senior writer D'Vera Cohn, a co-author of the analysis, picking
up English is key to assimilation "because it's how people get a better job,
talk to their neighbors, talk to their child's teacher and fit in generally."

Mexican patterns are especially important to the big picture, said Rakesh
Kochhar, Pew's associate director for research, because Mexican immigrants make
up 64 percent of the U.S. Hispanic population.

Kochhar said he suspected that heavy reliance on Spanish among Mexican
immigrants reflected large numbers of recent arrivals and an education level
that, on average, was the lowest among U.S. Hispanics.

According to Cohn, it's impossible to know how quickly German, Eastern European,
Asian and other immigrant groups took up English in the 19th and 20th centuries
because no one kept the figures.

For that matter, Pew's findings measure only English fluency and literacy in
succeeding generations, not how long it took for individuals to adopt English.

The findings are based on 14,000 interviews of legal and illegal adult Hispanic
immigrants nationwide, conducted from 2002 to 2006. The interviews were for six
separate Pew studies, each of which included very similar questions about
fluency and literacy, with error margins between plus or minus 2.41 and 3.8
percentage points. INGS

Only 23 percent of first-generation Hispanic immigrants say they're fluent in
English. That rises to 88 percent in the second generation and 94 percent in the
third. Reading English with ease follows the same pattern, but the percentages
are slightly lower.

Half the adult children of Latino immigrants speak some Spanish at home. That
falls to a quarter or less in subsequent generations.

Half of Mexican immigrants report that they speak only Spanish on their jobs,
the highest rate of any Hispanic group.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday

Romney's ads attack Huckabee

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 917 words


COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa - Mitt Romney, battling to stop Mike Huckabee's surge in
the nation's first voting state, has unleashed a television and mail attack on
the former Arkansas governor. On the eve of the last scheduled Republican
presidential candidates' debate before Iowa's caucuses Jan. 3, Romney launched a
30-second television ad Tuesday in Iowa blasting Huckabee's record on
immigration. Huckabee fought back gently but firmly, likening the former
Massachusetts governor to an elementary school tattler. "We didn't like it when
we were in the third grade," Huckabee told a news conference in this western
Iowa city. "We don't like it now. Usually the tattler is not the most popular
kid in the classroom." Huckabee defended his immigration stance by welcoming the
support of James Gilchrist, the controversial founder of the Minuteman Project,
a citizens group that tries to monitor U.S. borders to prevent illegal
immigration. Obama is too far left, Clinton says

WASHINGTON - Using a curious tactic in a Democratic primary season dominated by
liberals, Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday accused Barack Obama of being too
far left to be elected president - citing a decade-old questionnaire indicating
Obama once opposed the death penalty and backed socialized medicine. The attack,
coming as a new South Carolina poll showed the former first lady trailing Obama
for the first time in South Carolina, is part of Clinton's strategy of
portraying Obama as disingenuous and too inexperienced to run for the White
House. In 1996, Obama, then running for the state Senate, filled out an election
questionnaire for the liberal, good-government Independent Voters of Illinois,
Independent Precinct Organization. In a statement, a campaign spokeswoman said,
"Obama never saw or approved" the document, and the health care, capital
punishment and gun control answers weren't consistent with his stances, then or
now. "It was filled out by an aide who has conceded she never got Obama's
sign-off," the spokeswoman said. Obama says he supports capital punishment for
severe crimes, but once favored a temporary moratorium after a handful of
capital cases were found to have been based on faulty evidence. Clinton aides
suggested the questionnaire proved Obama tailored his views to suit the
political climate - a charge he's often leveled at her.Buffett concerned about
income gap

SAN FRANCISCO - Billionaire investor Warren Buffett and Hillary Rodham Clinton
on Tuesday warned of the dangers of a growing gap between rich and poor and a
tax system that disproportionately helps people he calls "these super-rich" -
and he's one of them. "A fire hose has been showered on me, and nothing has
trickled beneath," Buffett said in a joint appearance with the Democratic
presidential front-runner. At a campaign fundraiser that brought in $1 million,
Clinton played moderator and asked the man known as the Oracle of Omaha a series
of questions about the economy. Some of the inquiries were drawn from the
audience of 1,500. Buffett indirectly blamed the Bush administration for a tax
code he said is out of whack. "In the last seven, eight years, what has happened
is that the super-rich have gotten a huge break," said Buffett, one of the
world's richest men with a net worth of $52 billion, according to Forbes
magazine. He is chairman and CEO of Omaha, Neb.-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
an investment company he founded. Both Buffett and Clinton warned of political
and economic instability that could come from the income and trade gaps, and
from expanding foreign ownership of American assets and property.Poll shows GOP
race as free-for-all

WASHINGTON - Three weeks before the first contest of the 2008 campaign,
Republicans remain sharply divided over whom to choose as their presidential
nominee and which of the five leading candidates best embodies the core values
of a fractured GOP, according to a new Washington Post-ABC News poll. Former New
York Mayor Rudy Giuliani continues to lead the Republican field in the national
poll, but his support is at its lowest point this year. Mike Huckabee, the
former Arkansas governor, has more than doubled his support among likely GOP
voters since early November and runs just behind Giuliani. Former Massachusetts
Gov. Mitt Romney, former Sen. Fred Thompson of Tennessee and Sen. John McCain of
Arizona also draw double-digit support in the new poll, hinting at a potential
free-for-all when the voting begins in Iowa and New Hampshire early next month.
The new poll found that the issues driving voters are shifting rapidly. Concerns
about the economy are on the rise, and assessments of current conditions in Iraq
have eased slightly, propelling the nation's economic picture and jobs to the
top of people's concerns.McCain: Veterans' care top priority

INMAN, S.C. - Republican presidential hopeful John McCain said Tuesday his top
domestic priority is improving veterans' health care, and he criticized Congress
for not passing legislation to fix the problems at military hospitals. McCain, a
Navy pilot who was held captive in North Vietnam, said reports of shoddy patient
care at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, which emerged in February, are
a disgrace. "Our men and women who are serving in the military were living in
deplorable conditions," he told a crowd of 100 people - including veterans -
packed into a pancake house in the northwestern part of this early voting state.

- Newsday, Associated Press, Washington Post, McClatchy Newspapers

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday

In Worthington, the fear lingers

BYLINE: BY JOHN BREWER Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 1004 words


WORTHINGTON, Minn. - The Lady of Guadalupe Mass at St. Mary's Catholic Church on
Sunday looked the same as last year: Latino families filled the pews; a mound of
roses covered the feet of a Virgin Mary statue, and red, green and white banners
hung near the altar.

But beneath the surface, everything has changed, one parishioner said.

On Dec. 12, 2006, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents raided six
Swift & Co. meat-processing plants around the country. Nearly 1,300 immigrants
were arrested. At the pork-processing plant in Worthington, 239 employees were
detained for identity theft and immigration violations.

St. Mary's counted 180 of the detainees as parishioners.

In their void are broken families and lingering fear, community members said.

ICE has a different take.

"First of all, it removed from the workplace more than 200 people in Worthington
who had stolen identities," said ICE spokesman Tim Counts. He said all the raids
at Swift plants freed up about 1,300 jobs for legal workers.

"I think there are benefits from this operation on multiple levels," he said.

But residents say the community they knew before the raid was damaged.

"There's no trust anymore," said Pedro Lira, a union representative at Swift &
Co. "It was a good community. Everybody fit; everybody got along. The
undocumented fit here. After ICE came, there was fear, confusion. It makes a
person wonder, 'If I go on the street and they stop me, am I going to be
arrested?' "

Such raids are likely to continue. Immigration reform advocates hoped, after
last year's detentions, that politicians would see the damage caused and push
for change.

That hope died this year, along with two federal reform bills. Observers assume
nothing further will happen until early 2009, after the next presidential
election.

In the meantime, the deportations continue. Of the 239 people initially
detained, fewer than 20 remain in the country. A handful have a chance of
successfully defending their deportation orders, immigration attorneys said.

The children of those deported are likely the hardest hit, according to
community advocates.

A recent report from the Urban Institute estimated at least 100 young children
lost one or two parents after the raid and that two-thirds affected are U.S.
citizens or legal residents.

Those statistics led Worthington Independent School District 518 to develop an
action plan to deal with future ICE operations.

MORE DEPORTATIONS

After the service at St. Mary's, parishioners feasted on tacos, beans and rice
while a mariachi band played. Few lingered, a nun said.

"They're still deporting people. Right now, it's more moms and kids," the Rev.
Larry Brixius said. "So there's still a lot of fear, because they know
immigration authorities are popping in and out all the time. You don't know when
it's going to happen."

Robert Demuth, the city's former mayor, attended the service, too.

"I don't see much change after the raid. The change I see is more over the last
15, 20 years," he said.

The city, settled by Germans and Swedes, used to be mainly Caucasian, he said.
The latest U.S. census statistics show it is now 20 percent Hispanic.

Luz Cazares, a native of Mexico, has lived in Worthington since 1996. The raid
frightened her family - her 16-year-old daughter barricaded herself in their
home during the raid last year. But the fear of losing a family member didn't
hit Cazares until her daughter's fiance was picked up for immigration violations
three weeks ago.

He is scheduled for deportation to Mexico, she said.

"We've had two weeks where we don't really live. Time is suspended. We don't
know what to do. Everybody was crying for about a week," she said.

LOST PRODUCTIVITY

As of March 1, Operation Wagon Train had resulted in the deportation of nearly
700 immigrants, according to the latest numbers available from ICE. And the
investigation into identity theft by illegal immigrants is ongoing, Counts said.

The number of immigrants picked up in workplace raids across the country this
year was more than 4,000, an eightfold increase from 2002.

Fines levied against companies that employed illegal immigrants rocketed, too,
from $73,000 in 2002 to more than $30 million in criminal fines, restitutions
and civil judgments this year.

While there is no word on whether Swift was fined following the raid, a
representative said the company lost $53 million to decreased productivity.

The company also said it donated $52,200 to the Worthington Area United Way
after the raid. The United Way in turn helped 101 families pay rent and utility
bills and buy groceries, according to Swift spokesman Chad Hamilton.

CITIZEN CHILDREN

Bruce Nestor, an immigration attorney who has represented workers at Swift, said
the raids accomplished little.

"We're no closer to solving immigration issues in this country than we were a
year ago," he said. "Raids like this ... don't do anything to put into place
good policies. They don't stop immigration."

John Keller, executive director of the Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota, is
using community donations and a $30,000 contribution from the Catholic diocese
in southwestern Minnesota to hire a lawyer full-time to work on immigration
cases out of Worthington.

"In the past year, we've represented 207 case matters in Worthington," he said,
but not all resulted from the Swift raid. There are still 90 active cases out of
the city.

He said that while things might look the same in Worthington, the raids' ill
effects are bound to continue. He objects especially to the idea of targeting
immigrants in the workplace, because they are established in their communities.

"They left behind homes and mortgages, they left behind women, most of the time,
and they left behind citizen children who were in our schools, preparing for
their holiday program, and who have had to carry on," Keller said. "There will
be consequences of an enforcement-only approach to immigration. We may see it
one year later, we may see it 10 years later."

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093 or jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday

More complex than a sound bite

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 796 words


In the article on the impact of last year's immigration raids on the Worthington
community, a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesperson was quoted as
saying many of the individuals who were arrested committed "identity theft" ("In
Worthington, the fear lingers," Dec. 12).

Characterizing working without proper documents as "identity theft" is a public
relations coup for Homeland Security, and reflects the current administration's
altered reality. The Worthington workers weren't out opening credit cards and
draining the bank accounts of the deceased Puerto Ricans whose birth
certificates they were largely using; they were simply working at low-wage jobs
native-born Americans abandoned long ago.

In the course of their work they were adding wages to the Social Security pool
from which they will never collect, contributing to the tax base of the
community and sending their U.S. citizen children to school. Using the phrase
"identity theft" makes for a nice sound bite for ICE, but reality is more
complex.

KIMBERLY HUNTER

St. Paul

The writer practices immigration law.

An unstable environment for kids

The raid at Swift & Co. meat packing plant in Worthington left residents and
children with lingering fear ("In Worthington, the fear lingers," Dec. 12). Why
are immigrants subjecting their children to these circumstances? They come into
our country illegally, knowing that they risk being caught and deported. This is
not a stable environment for these children who are fearful of losing a family
member.

Companies also need to take responsibility when hiring immigrants. They need to
make sure that proper paperwork and documentation is available. There are many
Americans who have had their identity stolen from people who come to work and
live in our country illegally. We are all responsible for taking action in this
matter, especially if we feel there is something illegal taking place.

SHANNON OLSON

Northfield

The buffer

we need

There is a homegrown American contingent of terrorists that resembles radical
Islamic extremists, similarly motivated by despair, fame, mayhem and nihilism.
The long lists of fundamentally disillusioned malcontents with resentments
seeking retribution or reward are cognitively challenged and are led astray by
fundamentalist tenets, both Christian and Islamic.

The Armageddon preachers say the end is coming and the malcontents carry out
their prophetic martyrdoms and dictums. Civil and moral authorities, whether in
democracy or theocracy, must address the lack of redress of grievances that
drives the disaffected population's propensity for unrest.

Mayhem and civility both have their protocols but democracy married to theocracy
has its similarities to civil Islamic theocracy. Separation of the two was
revolutionary, if you recall, in 1776, and based on intelligent and reasonable
tenets while nihilists of either sect are just called crazy Christians or
Muslims. Inner peace precedes civility, hopelessness precedes mayhem and redress
is the buffer we need.

TOM HILBER

St. Paul

Volunteers?

According to Sen. Christopher Bond of Missouri, the waterboarding of prisoners
is equated to being no more frightening or dangerous than swimming the
backstroke.

Waterboarding is illegal as defined by U.S. law and the Geneva Conventions.

Perhaps people who condone the practice should volunteer to undergo the
experience and give all of us a first-hand report.

ARLENE HILES

Stillwater

Drunken-driving victims

A few days ago there were news articles regarding the total number of
alcohol-related deaths and injuries. The article then listed the deaths and
injuries by county. A number that may be interesting and more telling of the
impact of alcohol-related deaths and injuries is the number of innocent victims.

KENT REES

Emily, Minn.

Maybe workplace

is the problem

I appreciated Julie Forster's article on sick leave policing ("Employers reining
in sick days," Dec. 9). My first thought on reading it was to consider other
recent articles on U.S employee productivity. We have generally high
productivity. I wonder if it has occurred to the folks at Mercer and others of
their ilk to examine the quality of the workplace, stress levels induced by the
job, personality conflicts and managerial styles when assessing the absentee
rate? Perhaps the problem lies in the system that the employees work in, and not
the employees who work in the system - or a combination.

Strictly assessing the outcome of the whole system and acting only against one
side merely lines the pockets of the consultants. Maybe the internal MBA-think
management-derived system is as much at fault as the staff who work under it.
The approaches outlined in the article make management appear afraid to assess
whether they have built a human-negative system.

GREG HRUBY

Roseville

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 24, 2007 Monday

Former ICE agent joins law firm that defends immigrants

BYLINE: By ANNIE BAXTER Minnesota Public Radio

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 765 words


ST. PAUL Last year, Mark Cangemi marked the end of a decades-long era: No more
undercover operations, busting human smuggling rings, or working the immigration
angle of high-profile anti-terrorism cases.

ICE special agents are required to leave the agency at age 57. So Cangemi
stepped down from his post overseeing a five-state territory based in the Twin
Cities.

Cangemi is a burly guy with a ruddy face and a vast vocabulary that gives him
the air of an English professor. He says his first few months of retirement
offered a nice respite, but then he got to wondering.

"I had done what I intended to do, and that is do my own personal Thoreau read
and walk and just reflect," Cangemi says. "And now that I had my first amendment
rights back to a degree, I decided well, what am I going to do with this
knowledge that I have."

Cangemi's inside view of immigration enforcement left him deeply troubled about
U.S. policy. He often felt hamstrung working for government agencies, which, he
thought, were never properly funded, but which still got blamed for the nation's
burgeoning population of illegal immigrants.

"It was impossible. You got what you paid for. In the end, I think it
accomplished exactly what it was designed to do. That was fail," he says.

Cangemi thought there must be a more effective way to deal with the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the country. And he thought the way forward might
be through helping employers comply with the law, so they are not hiring people
they should not.

It turns out Cangemi had an unlikely ally in his thinking. It was one of his
previous adversaries, an immigration attorney known for zealously defending the
very people Cangemi used to investigate. That lawyer, Herbert Igbanugo, wanted
to hire Cangemi to work at his Minneapolis law firm.

"I was at his retirement party last December," Igbanugo recalls, "and I said,
'Hey, are you going to be too chicken to come and talk?'"

Cangemi took the challenge and came to talk. Igbanugo had wanted to build a
division in his practice focused on helping employers comply with immigration
laws. He too felt that illegal immigration would dwindle if employers actually
followed the letter of the law.

And he thought Cangemi was the man to lead the new division. Cangemi had an
enforcement background and a law degree. Plus, Igbanugo respected Cangemi's
ethics in his years at ICE.

"If there's exculpatory information he'll give it to you, if he sees your client
is deserving in some ways, he'll be fair about it," Igbanugo says. "And if he
thought your client wasn't deserving, he'd prosecute to the highest extent of
the law. I thought that was fair."

So Cangemi and Igbanugo teamed up. They established a strict firewall policy.
Cangemi focuses on employers and is kept away from any cases at the firm that
could involve people he had investigated.

But as it happens, one of Cangemi's first clients was an immigrant.

Cangemi frequents a restaurant in Woodbury run by Heriberto Herrera. When
Herrera learned of Cangemi's legal expertise, he asked Cangemi to do some work
for his niece. She needed help with her immigration paperwork.

For people like the Herreras, the last person they would probably think to
contact is a former immigration enforcement agent. But Herrera says Cangemi has
done well by them.

"So far he's been very helpful and I have a lot of confidence in him," Herrera
says.

Herrera has not known Cangemi long enough to be surprised about Cangemi's career
switch. But Herbert Igbanugo says the move did initially raise some eyebrows
within his own firm.

"The first meeting he came to, he made people nervous," Igbanugo explains. "He
just walked in like a cop, sounded like a cop. I said 'Hey. You're on this side
now, OK?'"

Cangemi has endured some awkward moments in his new milieu, even outside of
Minnesota. He recently attended a conference in Arizona for lawyers in his
field. As he sat anonymously in the audience, he had to bite his tongue. A
speaker was describing immigration raids Cangemi had led, and was painting a
picture of excess force that Cangemi says just never happened.

But Cangemi's confident he and his new colleagues can work harmoniously. Even in
his days at ICE, he clung to the principle that people working on opposite sides
of a case could arrive at the same conclusion.

"If you ethically represent the interests of government or the client, the
outcome should be the same, a fair resolution," he says.

Cangemi's hoping that cooperative spirit might catch on in the broader
immigration debate.


Information from: Minnesota Public Radio News, http://www.mpr.org

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday

McCain, Romney punch, counterpunch

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 408 words


GOFFSTOWN, N.H. - Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and Sen. John McCain of
Arizona, engaged in a bitter fight to win the New Hampshire Republican primary,
lashed out in unusually personal terms Saturday over immigration, with McCain
essentially calling Romney a liar for suggesting McCain supports amnesty.

The GOP debate virtually exploded when Romney accused McCain of promoting a form
of amnesty for illegal aliens, saying McCain would allow them to permanently
stay in the U.S.

"I've never supported amnesty," said McCain.

But Romney suggested that by allowing many illegal immigrants to remain in the
U.S. while they follow a "path to citizenship," McCain's plan would reward
lawbreaking. "Are they sent home?" Romney demanded. "Some of them are, some of
them are not," McCain said.

Clearly feeling under siege and trailing McCain in two polls released Saturday,
Romney was repeatedly in the crosshairs of his rivals. After one sharp exchange
with Iowa caucuses winner Mike Huckabee, Romney accused his opponents of
attacking his character rather than engaging in a serious debate. They, in turn,
accused him of flip-flopping.

When Romney sought at the debate to cast himself as the candidate of change,
embracing what he said was the lesson of Barack Obama's Iowa victory, McCain
sarcastically referred to the criticism that Romney has frequently changed his
positions: "We disagree on a lot of issues, but I agree you are the candidate of
change."

- Chicago Tribune, Washington Post

Earlier, Romney criticized Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, for writing
that President Bush's foreign policy has "an arrogant bunker mentality." That
prompted a feisty Huckabee to accuse Romney of supporting a timed withdrawal
from Iraq.

"Governor, don't try to characterize my position," Romney retorted.

"Which one?" Huckabee shot back, prompting Romney to accuse him of engaging in a
personal attack.

- Washington Post

Romney, who finished second to former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee in Iowa, used
the debate to promote himself as an agent of change. But McCain used that
against him in questioning the former Massachusetts governor's consistency.

"I just wanted to say to Governor Romney, we disagree on a lot of issues, but I
agree you are the candidate of change," a smiling McCain told Romney.

Romney appeared peevish as one candidate after another needled him for his
changed positions, at one point tilting his head and making a face.

- Chicago Tribune

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 7, 2008 Monday

Gov. Pawlenty rekindles immigration debate with Democrats after issuing series
of proposals

BYLINE: BY RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Legislature; Politics

LENGTH: 682 words


Gov. Tim Pawlenty on Monday brought the debate over immigration back to center
stage in Minnesota by unveiling a host of executive actions and legislative
proposals on the divisive issue.

The policies range from allowing closer cooperation between local officials and
federal immigration enforcers to cracking down on employers who hire illegal
immigrants. They include reworked proposals that the Legislature previously
rejected.

"These are types of steps we believe that Republicans, Democrats, a broad
crosssection of Minnesotans, can agree are reasonable steps towards better
enforcement on illegal immigration," Pawlenty said, after describing legal
immigration as an enormous boon to the state. He made his announcement at a
Capitol news conference while backed by law enforcement officials, state agency
heads and Republican legislators.

But if the governor believed Democratic lawmakers and their allies would
immediately embrace his proposals, he was wrong.

"I don't see how it is productive," said Senate Majority Leader Larry
Pogemiller, DFL-Minneapolis. He said the proposals had more to do with
Pawlenty's national political ambitions than what Minnesota needs.

Javier Morillo-Alicea, president of Service Employees International Union Local
26, noted that Pawlenty last unveiled a host of immigration proposals in 2006,
when he was up for re-election.

"If there's a new immigration proposal from the governor, it must be an election
year," Morillo-Alicea said.

And Sen. Patricia Torres Ray, a Minneapolis DFLer who has worked on immigration
issues, said she was disappointed with the governor's announcement.

"Why is he using this issue, that divides our community, as a wedge issue?" she
asked.

His legislative proposals would:

? Forbid city policies that bar local law enforcement from asking about
immigration status as part of their routine business, something he proposed in
2006 and the Legislature rejected. Minneapolis and St. Paul currently have such
policies. If lawmakers don't accept the prohibition, Pawlenty will reduce state
aid to cities with such policies by 10 percent in his next budget, he said.

? Fine employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants up to $5,000 and
potentially forbid the employers from getting relicensed in the state. The
proposal, which is similar to one Pawlenty made in 2006, would also encourage
employers to use the federal E-Verify system, an electronic database that allows
employers to check immigration status.

? Increase the penalties for identity theft and use of fraudulent documents.
That crackdown would affect people who use false documents to hide their
immigration status, and criminals who use false documents for other reasons.

? Expand the definition of human trafficking to include forced participation in
pornography, exhibition or exotic dancing under the crime of sex trafficking.

Pawlenty also announced Monday he had used his gubernatorial power to:

? Require the state to check the immigration status of all new employees,
contractors and recipients of state business incentives using the E-Verify
program. Pawlenty said he didn't believe the state necessarily had been hiring
or funding illegal immigrants, but it should lead by example.

? Require the Department of Public Safety to review the millions of photos in
its driver's license database to "catch duplicate photos and examine them for
possible fraud."

? Formalize the relationship between state law enforcement and corrections
officials and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. Under the
order, several dozen state employees would be trained in immigration matters and
would work with the federal agency as needed.

Assistant Public Safety Commissioner Tim Leslie said the order would help the
state better work with its federal counterparts.

"It's really all about relationships," he said.

But Torres Ray, the senator from Minneapolis, said the order places state
resources where they should not be.

"He is asking state agencies to do the job of the federal government," she said.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 8, 2008 Tuesday

Not 'real,' only tried-and-true

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 646 words


As in his 2002 and 2006 campaigns, Gov. Tim Pawlenty kicked off the election
year 2008 by calling a press conference aimed at framing undocumented immigrants
as criminals and himself as the heroic champion of the "rule of law." It was
quickly followed by a Pioneer Press editorial supporting the idea that the
announcement was about "real problems" rather than the Pawlenty's tried and true
politics of division ("Behind the politics, real problems to address," Jan. 8).

The people of Minnesota know better. Pawlenty's proposals will only deepen the
fears of both immigrant and U.S.-born Minnesotans, and increase the barriers to
immigrant participation in our community. The real problems we need to address
are a broken immigration system and politicians who use fear and division to
achieve their own ends.

SARAH GLEASON

St. Paul

Valuing fellowship

Your story on AA meetings and the smoking ban ("Smoking ban killing our club,"
Jan. 4) did not ring true to me. In December, I attended an AA medallion
ceremony for a family member, and the large meeting room was filled to capacity.
The air was clear, but otherwise nothing seemed to have changed from meetings I
had attended before the ban. Members shared stories, laughed and cried,
supported, encouraged and inspired each other. Nobody mentioned smoking.

AA members meet to create a community of mental, emotional and physical health.
Many members smoke but many do not. Smoking is certainly not the main purpose of
their meetings. I feel badly if one AA group has suffered because some members
feel they cannot go a little while without smoking. However, if the meeting I
attended is any indication, most AA members value fellowship and community more
than they do their cigarettes.

JUDY MARTINEZ-SONES

Chanhassen

Smoking

and drinking

Private clubs that open their doors for Alcoholics Anonymous meetings offer an
important service to the community. But as a tobacco researcher who has worked
extensively with recovering alcoholics, I want the public to know that data do
not support the argument that smoking during support meetings is necessary to
promote abstinence from drinking. Instead, smoking poses an important health
risk to patients in recovery.

In fact, researchers from the Mayo Clinic have shown that mortality among people
treated for alcoholism is more likely to be from tobacco-related causes than
alcohol-related causes.

In contrast to the claim that smoke-free environments promote drinking, there is
an association between smoking cessation and long-term abstinence from alcohol.
The majority of recovering alcoholics are nonsmokers, and will be attracted to
participate in Alcoholics Anonymous groups that protect them from secondhand
smoke. I strongly support the fair implementation of the smoking ban during AA
meetings.

ANNE M. JOSEPH

Minneapolis

The writer is Wexler Professor of Medicine and director of the Applied Clinical
Research Program at the University of Minnesota Medical School.

Ventura broke

the stranglehold

I would like to respond to Pat Dunn's derogatory letter about Jesse Ventura
("Get over it, Jesse Ventura," Jan. 4). Jesse Ventura is the greatest governor
this state has ever had, because he broke the stranglehold that the Humphreys
and the Mondales had on Minnesota's political system by proving you didn't need
to be a member of a prominent political dynasty to be governor. As an
Independent, I will not sit quietly while Dunn tries to limit my political
options.

If anyone needs to get over anything, it's Pat Dunn and the prejudices and
hostilities toward city-born people as well as the notion that you have to be
from the rural or suburban areas to be governor. Ventura wasn't bashing public
service, he was bashing those who hold onto power for far too long. It's that
attitude that's making Democrats and Republicans dinosaurs as well as getting
them into trouble.

DANA W. CARLSON

Woodbury

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 15, 2008 Tuesday

U.S. District Court / Two men indicted in prostitution ring

BYLINE: BY DAVID HANNERS Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Crime and Court Stories

LENGTH: 544 words


A federal grand jury has indicted two Twin Cities men in an alleged prostitution
ring that prosecutors claimed brought in $70,000 a month and trafficked as many
as 100 immigrant Asian women.

An indictment made public Tuesday charges Liqing "Jeff" Liu, 41, the alleged
ringleader, and Craig Joseph Kraft, 58, who owns a Minneapolis travel agency,
with a single count of conspiracy to transport women across state or
international boundaries for prostitution.

Liu is in the Hennepin County Adult Detention Center; Kraft is not in custody.

The indictment accuses them of making travel arrangements for 10 women. The
women were flown to the Twin Cities from New York and California. Prosecutors
said that once here, the women - most of them from China - worked at any of at
least five makeshift brothels in Minneapolis, Bloomington and St. Louis Park.

Investigators said the prostitution ring catered to affluent customers, with the
brothels generally set up in nicer neighborhoods. The women, brought into
Minnesota two or three at a time, worked in shifts that lasted a week to two
weeks, then were sent back, police said.

In an affidavit filed in an earlier criminal complaint against Liu, Jeremy
Christenson, a special agent with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
one of the women described the operation.

She was taken into custody while trying to board a flight at Minneapolis-St.
Paul International Airport. She told agents she had been smuggled into the
country illegally, through Canada, in February 2006 and she had paid a smuggler
$5,000.

The woman said she turned to prostitution to support herself and was living in
the New York area when a friend referred her to Liu for work, the affidavit
claims. Liu allegedly booked her a flight to the Twin Cities, then deducted the
cost of the airfare from her earnings as a prostitute.

The woman said she worked at a St. Louis Park apartment that Liu allegedly
leased and used as a brothel. She claimed customers would pay $80 to enter the
brothel, then pay an additional $40 to $100, depending upon the type of sexual
service requested.

Liu took $70 from the transaction, the woman claimed, and charged the woman $40
a day for room and board.

According to the affidavit, another woman said that she answered a newspaper ad
for massage work that Liu ran in Nevada and that she came here from Las Vegas.

Kraft runs Any Which Way Travel, a Minneapolis agency. In his earlier affidavit,
Christenson said he interviewed "CJK," which are Kraft's initials. The man told
the agent he worked for Liu between April and August of last year but stopped
"because he knew what he was doing was wrong, and my 'conscious' got to me,"
according to the affidavit.

The man said he booked travel for some women at Liu's direction and transported
them to and from the airport, as well as to "out-calls," when they would work at
other addresses.

"CJK further stated that when women would come to Minnesota they would often
complain about how much Liu would charge them for travel," the affidavit says.
"CJK stated Liu would often book the women's travel to Minnesota, and then
charge them more than the travel actually cost."

Kraft did not return a call for comment.

David Hanners can be reached at dhanners@pioneerpress.com or 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday

Undocumented

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 673 words


contributions

No matter what Gov. Pawlenty and his backers say, immigration isn't a law and
order issue. It's humanitarian.

Some 12 million Latinos have come to the U.S. for a better way of life. There is
no legal path to citizenship for most Mexicans and residents of many Latino
nations. So they risk their lives to come for jobs most of us won't take - when
was the last time you changed sheets in a motel or washed dishes in a cafe?

They pay state income, sales and property taxes (even the renters). They don't
qualify for welfare. The undocumented alone contribute an estimated $1.6 billion
to Minnesota's economy annually.

But most of all they are human beings, families, children. As a civilized
society, we have an obligation to treat them with dignity.

If you want scapegoats, blame Congress for failing to reform our outdated
immigration laws.

JERRY KAHLERT

Inver Grove Heights

A real stimulus

Multiple news organizations have published articles indicating that property
values declined an average of 2.2 percent during 2007 in the Twin Cities area.
My current property tax statement indicates a rise of 5.05 percent. This is only
a difference of 7.25 percentage points between the real world and world of
government taxation. It seems the fair thing for our property taxes to do is to
reflect current property values rather than a business-as-usual value that is
out of touch with reality. But, "fair" and "government taxation" are two terms
never used together in this state. If an economic stimulus is desired, it seems
too logical to begin with realistic property evaluation resulting in less
taxation. If less taxation was coupled with less government spending, there
could be a true economic stimulus.

PHIL DEAN

Roseville

Telling experience

I have heard Hillary say many times: "I have 35 years of experience." My
response to that history is:

-- It attaches her to all that has gone on these past eight years. She would
have been a vital candidate had she stood up to the current administration. I
thought that was why we have two parties.

-- She has 35 years for corporate America, its lust and greed, and the lobbyists
to whom she is beholden, to take control of her, her campaign and her policies.

-- Is it not obvious that this campaign is all about Bill? The one who plays
tough and dirty so that she can say, "I didn't say/do that." Remember, she was
too weak to leave Bill who was sleeping around in the White House. This speaks
volumes as to how she solves problems - but then she needed to be married to him
to run for president.

ANDREA ALBRECHT

St. Paul

An obsolete approach

Regarding Robert Bryce's "Confronting the myths of 'energy independence' " (Jan.
15): The author works for an organization heavily funded by energy companies and
therefore cannot be considered an unbiased analyst. Judging by this piece the
author draws conclusions regarding cause and effect which fail to examine a
number of contributing factors, serving to obscure the issue while suggesting
that we maintain a very profitable status quo for the oil industries. We are as
a society in desperate need of innovative solutions to the energy and
environmental issues which we face, and to maintain that there are no options
but those of the 19th and 20th centuries is an obsolete and useless approach
with no place in the 21st century.

BRIAN K. BARNES

Spring Valley, Wis.

One step closer

Gov. Band-Aid Pawlenty is finally ready to start spending some money on his
state. Spending by borrowing. He has proposed a bill that totals $1.09 billion.
Pawlenty says, "This is not the year to be doing recreational things, so they'll
have to wait." What recreational things have to wait? Transportation, higher
education, the environment, and economic development will have to wait so
Pawlenty can play political games (i.e. not raise taxes) on the backs of
Minnesotans. It is infuriating to watch Pawlenty put a Band-Aid on Minnesota's
gaping wounds. Congratulations to Pawlenty. He is probably one step closer to
becoming a vice presidential running mate.

AMY LEMIEUX

Eagan

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday

Green Bay / Sweep nets 20 immigrant fugitives

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 186 words


A three-day sweep by federal immigration agents resulted in the arrest of 20
immigrants who have ignored orders for their deportation.

Officials said Wednesday the arrests were made in Brown, Door, Kenosha,
Outagamie, Sheboygan and Winnebago counties, and they involved fugitives from El
Salvador, Honduras, Jordan, Laos, Mexico, Nicaragua and Yugoslavia.

The 12 agents from the Milwaukee office of the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement Department worked in three-man teams to apprehend those being sought
over a three-day period starting Friday. Some had criminal records.

Brown County Sheriff Dennis Kocken called the arrests "a positive step."

He met Wednesday with representatives of the Multicultural Center of Green Bay
and others who work with minorities regarding any concerns they had about the
roundup.

Gail Montenegro, ICE spokeswoman in Chicago, said the arrests are part of a
nationwide effort to apprehend those who have gone before an immigration judge
and been found to have no right to stay in the U.S.

The immigrants were taken to the state's Dodge County Correctional Institution.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday

Death penalty to be sought for 6 Guantanamo detainees

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 833 words


Military prosecutors have decided to seek the death penalty for six Guantanamo
detainees who are to be charged with central roles in the Sept. 11 terror
attacks, government officials who have been briefed on the charges said Sunday.
The officials said the charges would be announced at the Pentagon as soon as
today and were likely to include numerous war-crimes charges against the six
men, including Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the former al-Qaida operations chief who
has described himself as the mastermind of the attacks. A Defense Department
official said prosecutors were seeking the death penalty because "if any case
warrants it, it would be for individuals who were parties to a crime of that
scale." The officials spoke anonymously because no one in the government was
authorized to speak about the case. A decision to seek the death penalty would
increase the international focus on the case and present new challenges to the
troubled military commission system that has yet to begin a trial. U.S. to
expedite green card check

WASHINGTON - In a major policy shift aimed at reducing a ballooning immigration
backlog, the Department of Homeland Security is preparing to grant permanent
residency to tens of thousands of applicants before the FBI completes a required
background check. Those eligible are immigrants whose fingerprints have cleared
the FBI database of criminal convictions and arrests, but whose names have not
cleared the FBI's criminal or intelligence files after six months of waiting.
The immigrants who are granted permanent status, more commonly known as getting
their green cards, will be expected eventually to clear the FBI's name check. If
they don't, their legal status will be revoked and they'll be deported.Attack
hurts East Timor's leader

DILI, East Timor - Rebel soldiers attacked the home of President and Nobel Peace
Prize winner Jose Ramos-Horta early today, wounding him in the stomach. Gunmen
also opened fire on a motorcade carrying the prime minister but no one was
injured. Today's violence plunged the recently independent nation into fresh
uncertainty after a flare-up in violence in 2006 killed 37 people, displaced
more than 150,000 others and led to the collapse of the government. Ramos-Horta
was in "stable condition" following the shooting and would be flown to
neighboring Australia for further treatment if necessary, Prime Minister Xanana
Gusmao said.2 still missing in exploded plant

PORT WENTWORTH, Ga. - Search crews recovered another body Sunday from a sugar
refinery devastated by a massive explosion, raising the number of confirmed
deaths to six, the state's top elected fire official said. Insurance and Safety
Fire Commissioner John Oxendine said crews removed the body from the debris of
the Imperial Sugar refinery shortly before ending search operations at sunset.
There were still two more workers missing in the smoldering remains of the plant
that exploded last week, sending dozens of workers to the hospital with burns
and other injuries.Fire destroys Korean landmark

SEOUL, South Korea - An overnight fire destroyed a 610-year-old landmark that
was considered the top national treasure, officials said today. Police said the
cause of the blaze was unclear but one official said arson was suspected. The
fire broke out Sunday night and burned down the wooden structure at the top of
the Namdaemun gate that once formed part of a wall that encircled the capital.
Some 360 firefighters fought to bring the blaze under control. No one was
injured.Norway closes Afghan embassy

OSLO, Norway - Norway closed its embassy in the Afghan capital because of terror
threats Sunday, nearly a month after a Norwegian journalist was among eight
people killed in a suicide attack on a luxury hotel in Kabul. The Nordic nation,
which recently said it would send more troops to the NATO force in Afghanistan,
has been singled out at least twice as a potential target by al-Qaida. "The
embassy has been closed down today due to terror threats," Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Kristin Melsom said. She would not describe the threats and said it
was too early to say how long the embassy would be closed.Presidential hair
going on display

PHILADELPHIA - It might be the strangest way to spend Presidents Day. For the
first time, the Academy of Natural Sciences is displaying a scrapbook that has
locks of hair from the first 12 U.S. presidents. It will be on view Feb. 16-18.
The presidential "hair album" was assembled by Peter Arvell Browne, a
Philadelphia attorney who collected thousands of samples of animal fur and human
hair in the 1840s and 1850s. Browne also wrote to presidents still living during
his lifetime - 1762 to 1860 - and to the families of those who had died. His
letters and their responses are included in the book along with the strands of
hair. His requests for hair weren't considered odd, as saving a loved one's
locks in a family "hair album" was popular in the 19th century.

- Associated Press, McClatchy Newspapers, New York Times

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday

U.S. moves to clear backlog of green card applications

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 826 words


WASHINGTON - In a major policy shift aimed at reducing a ballooning immigration
backlog, the Department of Homeland Security is preparing to grant permanent
residency to tens of thousands of applicants before the FBI completes a required
background check. Those eligible are immigrants whose fingerprints have cleared
the FBI database of criminal convictions and arrests, but whose names have not
yet cleared the FBI's criminal or intelligence files after six months of
waiting. The immigrants who are granted permanent status, more commonly known as
getting their green cards, will be expected eventually to clear the FBI's name
check. If they don't, their legal status will be revoked and they'll be
deported. The decision to issue green cards demonstrates how federal agencies
are struggling to keep up with surging immigration applications while applying
stringent post-Sept. 11 background checks. Olmert rejects offensive in Gaza

JERUSALEM - Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on Sunday ruled out a broad military
operation in the Gaza Strip, deflecting rising anger after an 8-year-old boy
lost a leg in a Palestinian rocket attack. But Israel's top diplomat warned it
will be impossible to reach a peace agreement with Palestinians as long as the
Hamas rulers of Gaza continue to foment violence. "Anger is not an operational
plan," Olmert said in response to clamoring for a full-scale invasion of
northern Gaza. Residents of the battered town of Sderot near Gaza blocked the
main highway entrance into Jerusalem as the Cabinet met. They demanded
government action after doctors amputated Osher Twito's leg following a rocket
attack that also wounded his 19-year-old brother.Attack hurts East Timor's
leader

DILI, East Timor - East Timor President and Nobel Peace Prize winner Jose
Ramos-Horta was wounded in an attack on his home today by renegade soldiers, an
army spokesman said. An Associated Press reporter at the scene said Ramos-Horta
was taken away in an ambulance to a hospital run by Australian troops. It was
unclear what condition Ramos-Horta was in, army spokesman Maj. Domingos da
Camara said. One of Ramos-Horta's guards was killed in the attack, he said.3
still missing in exploded plant

PORT WENTWORTH, Ga. - Sugar that was still burning three days after a refinery
explosion killed at least five people hampered the search Sunday for three other
workers missing since the blast leveled portions of the plant. Crews used
construction cranes to shore up three badly damaged, 80-foot storage silos that
rescue workers want to search for the missing men. One of the silos blew up late
Thursday, possibly after combustible dust ignited. Mounds of sugary sludge
pouring out of the silos Sunday was solidifying, though, creating another
obstacle to the recovery efforts.Chavez threatens oil retaliation

CARACAS, Venezuela - President Hugo Chavez on Sunday threatened to cut off oil
sales to the U.S. if Exxon Mobil Corp. wins court judgments to seize billions of
dollars in Venezuelan assets. "If you end up freezing (Venezuelan assets) and it
harms us, we're going to harm you," Chavez said. "Do you know how? We aren't
going to send oil to the United States." Exxon Mobil has gone after the assets
of state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA in U.S., British and Dutch courts
as it challenges the nationalization of a multibillion-dollar oil project by
Chavez's government. A British court has issued an injunction "freezing" as much
as $12 billion in assets.Norway closes Afghan embassy

OSLO, Norway - Norway closed its embassy in the Afghan capital because of terror
threats Sunday, nearly a month after a Norwegian journalist was among eight
people killed in a suicide attack on a luxury hotel in Kabul. The Nordic nation,
which recently said it would send more troops to the NATO force in Afghanistan,
has been singled out at least twice as a potential target by al-Qaida. "The
embassy has been closed down today due to terror threats," Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Kristin Melsom said. She would not describe the threats and said it
was too early to say how long the embassy would be closed.Presidential hair
going on display

PHILADELPHIA - It might be the strangest way to spend Presidents Day. For the
first time, the Academy of Natural Sciences is displaying a scrapbook that has
locks of hair from the first 12 U.S. presidents. It will be on view Feb. 16 to
18. The presidential "hair album" was assembled by Peter Arvell Browne, a
Philadelphia attorney and scholar who collected thousands of samples of animal
fur and human hair in the 1840s and 1850s. Browne also wrote to presidents still
living during his lifetime - 1762 to 1860 - and to the families of those who had
died. His letters and their responses are included in the book along with the
strands of hair. His requests for hair weren't considered odd, as saving a loved
one's locks in a family "hair album" was popular in the 19th century.

- Associated Press, McClatchy Newspapers

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday

Duluth, Minn. / Port Authority eases way for cruise ship

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 152 words


The Duluth Seaway Port Authority is working to ensure clear sailing through new
immigration rules for a planned cruise ship that will offer regular service
between Duluth and Toronto.

Travel Dynamics International has bought a 50-suite cruise ship that it plans to
sail out of Duluth during the summer and fall of 2009.

Adolph Ojard, executive director of the Duluth Seaway Port Authority, says his
agency will need to work with Homeland Security officials on the security
logistics.

Ojard says he wants to avoid repeating the problems the cruise ship Columbus
encountered in September.

After a Great Lakes tour that was supposed to end in Chicago, the port authority
learned there were no marine terminals on the Great Lakes certified to accept
foreign travelers.

Passengers had to disembark on lifeboats bound for Canada, then take buses
through a land checkpoint into the United States, Ojard says.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday

Duluth / Port Authority eases way for cruise ship

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 153 words


The Duluth Seaway Port Authority is working to ensure clear sailing through new
immigration rules for a planned cruise ship that will offer regular service
between Duluth and Toronto.

Travel Dynamics International has bought a 50-suite cruise ship that it plans to
sail out of Duluth during the summer and fall of 2009.

Adolph Ojard is executive director of the Duluth Seaway Port Authority. He says
his agency will need to work with Homeland Security officials on the security
logistics.

Ojard says he wants to avoid repeating the problems the cruise ship Columbus
encountered in September.

After a Great Lakes tour that was supposed to end in Chicago, the port authority
learned there were no marine terminals on the Great Lakes certified to accept
foreign travelers. Passengers had to disembark on lifeboats bound for Canada,
then take buses through a land checkpoint into the United States, Ojard says.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 25, 2008 Monday

Agents: Woman in schoolbus crash is from Guatemala

BYLINE: BY JOHN BREWER Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 157 words


Immigration and Customs Enforcement has determined the identity of the woman
charged with killing four students and injuring 12 others in the bus crash in
Cottonwood last Tuesday.

Olga Marina Franco, 24, is from Guatemala, according to ICE.

Franco originally said that was 23-year-old Alianiss Nunez Morales.

Working with the Minnesota State Patrol, ICE first interviewed van driver Franco
on Thursday -- the day she was arrested -- and developed probable cause that she
was in the United States illegally and that she had not been using her true
identity.

During the interview, Franco told ICE that she was from Mexico. A fingerprint
check drew no match, meaning she had no prior contact with immigration
officials.

ICE placed a detainer on Franco when she was arrested. If she is released from
Lyon County custody for any reason, immigration officials said, she will be
placed in deportation proceedings.

The investigation into the crash continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The woman identified as Alianiss NunezMorales is wheeled into the Lyon
Countycourthouse Friday in Marshall, Minn., where she was charged with vehicular
homicide in a school bus crash that killed four children Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday

Liberian left for Iraq as an imigrant, returns a U.S. citizen

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Mohr emohr@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; North Zone Stories; News

LENGTH: 588 words


Pfc. Moses Nyumah was sent to Iraq last year as an immigrant soldier. He
returned Thursday as an American.

It was a homecoming the Liberia native wasn't expecting when he left.

The 28-year-old Brooklyn Park man joined the Minnesota National Guard more than
two years ago to serve his adopted country. He was rewarded with his citizenship
during a naturalization ceremony four months ago while serving in Iraq.

"It made me feel more free," Nyumah said.

As an immigrant, his new citizenship makes him feel more integrated into
American culture, he added.

Nyumah, who returned with the other 22 members of the Roseville-based 247th
Finance Detachment, is one of thousands of immigrant soldiers who fight for the
United States. Many are being rewarded with an expedited citizenship. Another
member of the Roseville unit, Spc. James Idoko also will get a chance to speed
up his citizenship process.

Serving in the military has become a way for immigrants to speed up their
citizenship application after the Immigration and Nationality Act was backed by
President Bush in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks.

Marilu Cabrera, spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
it is supposed to take six to eight months for a regular civilian to navigate
the naturalization process.

"For the military, we expedite those cases," she said.

More than 150 other immigrant armed forces members took part in the Veteran's
Day ceremony Nyumah did.

Nearly 37,000 military personnel have been naturalized since Sept. 11, according
to the Citizenship and Immigration Services. Cabrera wasn't sure how many of
those were Minnesotans.

Nyumah said the expedited citizenship wasn't his motive for enlisting.

Louise Tamba, Nyumah's mother, fled to the United States from war-torn Liberia
13 years ago with her children and family. A personal banking officer for Bremer
Bank now settled in Brooklyn Park with her family, Tamba is still trying to
become a naturalized citizen.

Tamba admits she didn't take it well when Nyumah told her he was enlisting in
the military.

"I left because of the war," Tamba said. "When he told me he wanted to join the
Army, it was tough. It was hard to let go."

But none of that mattered Thursday. Her son was home safely and, in a sense, a
new man.

"I'm so happy," she said.

Now, Nyumah will readjust to life as a civilian -- and as a full-fledged
American.

Already he is planning to return to college. He hopes his citizenship will help
him provide better for his family.

Meanwhile, fellow soldier Idoko must wait for his citizenship.

A special naturalization ceremony for him was planned for Thursday, but it was
postponed until after Idoko returns from a trip to his native Nigeria to visit
his wife and newborn daughter.

Had he gone through the ceremony, he would have lost his green card without
enough time to obtain a passport for international travel.

"I want to see my family," he said.

While his family won't return with him, he hopes to bring them to the U.S. soon.

Idoko, 29, came to the U.S. alone in 2000. He received his bachelor's degree in
psychology from Lewis-Clark State College in Lewiston, Idaho, in 2005 and has
been working as a corrections officer for the Minnesota Department of
Corrections.

He joined the military in March 2006.

"I wanted to contribute," he said.

Idoko, too, said the citizenship process was not a factor in deciding to enlist.

"Regardless, it was something I was going to get," he said. "This is a good
country. People have struggled to make it better and will continue to fight to
make it better."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: After a welcome home ceremony Thursday at Roseville Armory, Minnesota
National GuardPfc. Moses Nyumah and his aunt, Fatu Tamba, head for home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 12, 2008 Monday

Twin Cities / Two plead guilty to running global prostitution scheme

BYLINE: By David Hanners dhanners@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Local

LENGTH: 433 words


Two men who were set to go to trial Monday on federal charges that they brought
illegal immigrants into the country to work in a prostitution ring have pleaded
guilty.

Liqing "Jeff" Liu, 41, of St. Paul, and Craig Joseph Kraft, 59, of Crystal, each
pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy and will be sentenced later by
U.S. District Judge Ann Montgomery.

Liu entered his plea Friday, and Kraft pleaded guilty Monday.

A federal grand jury indicted the men in January. Federal officials claimed Liu
was the mastermind of a prostitution ring that trafficked as many as 100
immigrant Asian women and raked in $70,000 a month.

Kraft, who ran a travel agency, was accused of booking the flights and making
the travel arrangements.

Most of the women were from China. The women allegedly were flown first to New
York, California or Texas, then to the Twin Cities, and prosecutors claimed that
once here, the women worked at any of at least five brothels set up in homes or
motels in Minneapolis, Bloomington, Plymouth, Golden Valley and St. Louis Park.

They would work for a couple of weeks and then were sent back, investigators
said.

The prostitution ring catered to affluent customers, and the brothels generally
were set up in upscale neighborhoods, prosecutors contended. The ring took out
ads in local papers, saying it offered massage services.

In an earlier criminal complaint filed against Liu, Jeremy Christenson, a
special agent with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said a woman
detained as she was trying to board a flight at Minneapolis-St. Paul
International Airport described the operation.

She said she was smuggled into the U.S. illegally through Canada and wound up in
New York.

A friend referred her to Liu for work, and Liu flew her to the Twin Cities,
deducting the cost of her airfare from her income as a prostitute, according to
an affidavit by Christenson.

The woman said she worked at a St. Louis Park apartment that had been turned
into a brothel. Customers would pay $80 to enter the apartment, then pay $40 to
$100 more, depending upon the type of sexual service they were buying.

Christenson said the woman claimed Liu took $70 of each transaction and charged
the women $40 a day for room and board.

Liu admitted in his plea agreement that from last October to December, he
conspired with someone else to harbor aliens he knew would be working as
prostitutes.

Kraft, in his plea agreement, admitted that from April to December 2007, he was
involved in the interstate transportation of women he knew would be working as
prostitutes.

David Hanners can be reached at 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday

Milwaukee / Immigration sweep yields 38 arrests

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2608 words


Federal officials say they've arrested 38 people in southeastern Wisconsin over
five days, describing those taken into custody as fugitive aliens and
immigration violators.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Wednesday that fugitive
aliens are illegal aliens who fail to appear for immigration hearings or
disappear after being ordered to leave the country.

Sixteen of those arrested were fugitives, and 22 were immigration violators who
were encountered as officers made the targeted arrests.

The arrests were made in Milwaukee, Kenosha and Racine counties.

Those arrested were from Albania, China, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Ukraine
and Yugoslavia.

-- Associated PressWISCONSINRacine / Woman's award 'sends a message'

A judge awarded more than $3 million to a woman whose ex-husband beat and
abducted her and then left her sealed inside a garbage can in an unheated
storage unit in subfreezing temperatures.

Teri Jendusa-Nicolai lost all of her toes and miscarried her baby as a result of
the Jan. 31, 2004, attack. She said the award in her civil case against
ex-husband David Larsen probably won't ever produce money for her, but it sends
a message to anyone who thinks of doing such a thing.

She was attacked exactly three years after her divorce from Larsen was
finalized.

Larsen, 44, is serving 37 years in prison after being convicted of attempted
first-degree intentional homicide and interfering with custody of their two
children.

-- Associated PressKenosha / Trucking company files for bankruptcy

The trucking firm once owned by millionaire Dennis Troha is filing for
bankruptcy.

JHT Holdings Inc. made the filing this week in bankruptcy court in Delaware. The
company plans to turn over ownership control to its lenders.

Troha and his family were majority owners until 2005. He was sentenced in March
to six months of probation for steering illegal campaign donations.

The company isn't being forced into Chapter 11 filings, said James Welch, JHT's
chief executive. It's making the move as a financial strategy.

The Kenosha firm has 1,360 drivers and is a big player in transporting medium
and heavy-duty trucks in North America.

-- Associated PressMINNESOTAWinona / DOTs to repay city for ferry services

The transportation departments of Minnesota and Wisconsin will reimburse Winona
for setting up a ferry service during the recent interstate bridge closure.

Winona's costs total more than $200,000.

MnDOT's reimbursement share is expected to top $190,000. MnDOT will cover the
city's cost to rent ferryboats, expand bus routes within city limits and improve
the city dock to accommodate thousands of commuters.

The Wisconsin DOT is expected to contribute an additional $20,000 for buses that
shuttled commuters from Latsch Island to five locations in Wisconsin.

MnDOT reopened the bridge to car and light-truck traffic on June 14. The bridge
was closed for 11 days after inspectors found corroded gusset plates. Heavy
trucks and pedestrians remain barred from the bridge until repairs are completed
this summer.

-- Associated Press St. Cloud / Hostage situation heightens security

County government officials in central Minnesota are rethinking their security
procedures after a man interrupted a meeting in a Morrison County boardroom and
held people hostage.

Many area courthouses have installed metal detectors that visitors must pass
through. But most administration buildings have been left open to encourage
public participation.

Jim Mulder, who directs the Association of Minnesota Counties, said many
counties have older buildings with multiple doors that would be costly to
secure.

Mulder said Tuesday's incident, in which the gunman was eventually shot by
police officers, could cause county officials to devise better security
strategies to prevent copycat attacks.

-- Associated Press Preston / Floods leave some well water unsafe

Some well water sampled after the floods this month in one southeastern
Minnesota county don't meet standards for safe drinking water.

Fillmore County has 4,000 wells, and 35 percent of the samples gathered from
some of those wells had problems including high levels of nitrates. Half of the
samples tested positive for bacteria such as coliform and E. coli.

The water testing came after the flooding caused most of the county's sewage
facilities to fail. Untreated waste ended up in the Root River.

But health officials say the most recent testing was evidence that an ongoing
problem had gotten worse.

Between 1984 and 2003, water samples from wells showed that 38 percent had
bacteria and 23 percent had nitrate levels above the level recommended for
drinking.

-- Associated Press Sleepy Eye / Man who shot daughter dies at 74

The 74-year-old man who was charged with shooting his daughter near Sleepy Eye
this month has died in hospice care in New Ulm.

During an appearance in Brown County District Court two weeks ago, it was
revealed that Mark P. Jensen was having psychological problems as a result of
brain cancer. He was charged with first-degree assault and released on a promise
to reappear in court.

A funeral announcement said he died Tuesday at the New Ulm Medical Hospice Unit.

On June 14, the sheriff's office got a call from a woman who said her husband
had shot their daughter in the stomach. Deputies responded and arrested Jensen.

His daughter, 34-year-old Brenda Runck, is recovering.

Sleepy Eye is about 35 miles northwest of Mankato.

-- Associated Press Washington / Bush designates 4 counties disasters

President Bush has issued a federal disaster declaration for four southeastern
Minnesota counties hit hard by flooding.

The declaration means federal funding is available on a cost-sharing basis for
emergency work and repair or replacement of facilities in Fillmore, Freeborn,
Houston and Mower counties. It follows a request made last week by Gov. Tim
Pawlenty for the area.

The governor had already declared a state of emergency for the four counties,
where two waves of heavy rains this month caused flooding.

There is also federal funding available statewide for hazard mitigation
measures.

-- Associated Press Washington / Retirement money would fund relief

Residents hit by recent floods and storms in the Midwest could get some tax
relief under a measure pending in the U.S. Senate.

The proposal would let disaster victims take money out of retirement plans
without facing tax penalties. It also would give tax breaks to businesses
dealing with losses and encourage more donations to charities.

The measure is similar to tax relief legislation Congress passed to help victims
of Hurricane Katrina and the 2007 tornado that devastated Greensburg, Kan. It
would affect residents of Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan,
Minnesota, Missouri and Wisconsin.

The measure is part of pending housing legislation.

-- Associated PressGrand Forks, N.D. / Gift funds study of energetic materials

The University of North Dakota chemical engineering department has received a $2
million gift.

The money from alumnus Norman Hoffman and his wife, Ann, is to start a program
focused on energetic materials. Those are propellants, explosives and
pyrotechnics used in things such as car air bags and bombs.

Mike Mann, interim dean of UND's School of Engineering and Mines, said the study
of energetic materials could enhance defense research already conducted at the
school.

Hoffman once managed a chemical engineering department at a California aerospace
company and later started a company in Minnesota that works with rockets and
military systems. He sold the Technical Ordnance company two years ago.

-- Associated Press ST. PAULMan identified in motorcycle crash

Joe Ramon Eis Jr. was the South St. Paul man killed in a motorcycle crash Monday
night.

Police on Wednesday identified Eis, 50, as the man who lost control of his
motorcycle while turning and crashed into a guardrail at about 11:30 p.m. He
wasn't wearing a helmet.

The crash occurred near the intersection of Plato Boulevard and Water Street. No
other vehicle was involved. When officers arrived, Eis wasn't breathing.
Paramedics were unable to resuscitate him, and Eis died at the scene, officials
said.

It is unknown whether alcohol was involved, police have said.

-- Jessica HuangPolice release man linked to shooting

A St. Paul man arrested in connection with an early Sunday morning homicide
outside Club Milton in the Summit-University neighborhood has been released
pending further investigation, the Ramsey County attorney's office said
Wednesday.

Darren Alan Day, 21, was the only individual arrested in the shooting of Keith
Darvel Turnipseed Jr., a father of five who police believe was not the intended
victim. Three other people were also shot, but none of the injuries was life
threatening, said St. Paul police spokesman Peter Panos.

Authorities have no other suspects.

"We're still trying to get witnesses to come forward, that's our biggest thing,"
Panos said.

Turnipseed, 33, of St. Paul, worked at a St. Paul high school and a group home
for at-risk youth and was a personal-care attendant for two people.

Turnipseed's family has established a fund for his five children and to help
with burial costs. Donations can be sent to the Keith Darvel Turnip-seed Jr.
Memorial Fund, Bremer Bank, 633 Concord St., South St. Paul, MN 55075.

-- Emily Gurnon and Mara H. Gottfried2nd protest group obtains permit

The St. Paul Police Department has granted a marching permit to a second group
seeking to protest the 2008 Republican National Convention.

Following negotiations with the city, the Poor People's Economic Human Right
Campaign secured a Sept. 2 protest route that runs from Mears Park, through
Lowertown, to University Avenue, by the state Capitol and to the Xcel Energy
Center by way of Cedar and West Seventh streets.

The route is much longer than a disputed Sept. 1 route sought by the Coalition
to March on the RNC and Stop the War, which is organizing what is expected to be
the largest march during the Sept. 1-4 event. A federal lawsuit over that route
is pending.

The Sept. 2 march is expected to begin at 2 p.m.

-- Jason HoppinDAKOTA COUNTYDeputy relegated to court security

A Dakota County sheriff's deputy will be suspended from the department for 30
days for his role in a fatal car crash that killed a Farmington man.

After 30 days, deputy Joshua James Williams will remain assigned to security at
county courthouses for at least a year before being eligible for other duty.

Williams had been in the final stage of field training to become a patrol
officer when he made a left-hand turn from the right-turn lane of Minnesota 3 in
his squad car on Aug. 30 and hit 58-year-old Bill Wallace, who was riding a
motorcycle.

In May, a Scott County judge suspended Williams' driving privileges for a year
and ordered him to perform 40 hours of community service and pay $380 for
careless driving.

He is required to talk to new drivers and law enforcement students. Over the
objection of Wallace's family, who had sought a stiffer charge, the Hennepin
County Attorney's office charged Williams with a misdemeanor, careless driving.
Williams did not contest the facts in the case.

-- Frederick MeloLakeville / Officials OK school nepotism policy

Lakeville school leaders Tuesday approved a district-wide nepotism policy to
discourage employees from playing favorites in school -- especially with
spouses.

With the policy, school officials can refuse to place workers in the same
department or school as a significant other if the move could negatively affect
employee supervision or create a conflict of interest.

The district drafted the policy to avoid potential claims of employee
discrimination. There are few such measures in Minnesota school districts.

The policy also says the school district cannot discriminate against an employee
on the basis of marital or family status. But it gives the superintendent or a
designee authority to determine whether placing a worker in the same department
or school as his or her significant other may have a negative effect on the work
environment.

-- Maricella MirandaWASHINGTON COUNTYAfton / Afton groups make new sign blossom

There's a new "Welcome to Afton" sign at the north end of the Old Village, and
the Afton Area Business Association and Main Street Afton want it to flower.
Literally.

Officials from the groups are inviting Afton area residents to plant perennials
at the sign during a community garden party beginning at 7 p.m. Wednesday.

"Please join us for an hour or two and bring any extra perennials you may have
in your garden," said Kathleen Feehan, of the Afton Area Business Association.

For more information, call Feehan at 651-436-4636.

-- Mary DivineStillwater / Amateurs invited to 'ham' up event

Amateur radio operators, also known as hams, will be operating a multistation
communications center at Fred C. Andersen Scout Camp north of Houlton, Wis., on
Saturday and Sunday. The event is open to the public and will run from noon
Saturday to noon Sunday.

The annual event is sponsored by the Stillwater Amateur Radio Association and
will demonstrate two-way radio communications by using batteries, generators and
solar energy to test emergency communications preparedness.

SARA is affiliated with the Courage Center's Handi-ham system. Anyone interested
in learning about ham radio, the Handi-ham program or St. Croix Valley emergency
communications activities is invited to attend.

For more information, go to radioham.org or call Rick Brennan at 651-770-7407.

-- Mary DivineWEST METROMinneapolis / U of M opts out of Secret collection

The University of Minnesota's Goldy Gopher logo won't be appearing on Victoria's
Secret apparel after campus officials decided the clothing line is out of step
with the school's values.

The university made the decision after Victoria's Secret publicized the school
as one of 33 involved in its "PINK Collegiate Collection." As of Wednesday
morning, the Victoria's Secret Web site was still advertising a hooded
sweatshirt, T-shirt, sweatpants and tote bag with the U of M logo.

School spokesman Dan Wolter said the university is working to get the products
removed. Associate athletic director Tom Wistrcill said the school uses a
middleman in most licensing agreements and that there might have been a
miscommunication between the parties involved.

-- Associated Press Minneapolis / Abuse charges stand despite delay

Hennepin County will proceed with the case against a Minneapolis man charged
with abusing a 9-year-old relative but who argued the statute of limitations had
run out on the crime, officials said.

The Minnesota Supreme Court declined last week to hear the appeal of David
Michael Soukup, now 63, who was charged in 2006 with first-degree criminal
sexual conduct. Authorities claim the incident took place in the mid-1980s.

He admitted the allegations to police but said the county could not prosecute
him because the girl did not report the abuse to law enforcement in time.

The girl told a relative about the abuse when she was 21 but did not report it
to police until a decade later.

State law says that if the alleged victim of first-degree criminal sexual
conduct was younger than 18 at the time of the offense, the perpetrator must be
charged within nine years of the offense, or -- and this is the crux of the
matter -- "if the victim failed to report the offense with the limitation
period, within three years after the offense was reported to law enforcement
authorities," the law reads.

-- Emily Gurnon

The district court initially agreed with Soukup and threw out the charge. But
the Court of Appeals said the charge should stand.

Neither Soukup nor his attorney immediately returned a call seeking comment late
Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday

U.S. probe of jail death clears Ramsey County

BYLINE: By Tad Vezner tvezner@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Local

LENGTH: 925 words


A federal report looking into the death of Maria Inamagua Merchan -- an
Ecuadorian woman who died after becoming ill and falling in her cell at Ramsey
County Jail while awaiting deportation -- concluded that jail staff could have
done little to prevent her death.

But it added that some of the jail's medical practices were not up to required
Immigration and Customs Enforcement standards.

The report, by the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland
Security, noted that Merchan died in April 2006 of a "serious pre-existing
medical condition," notably neurocysticercosis, a rare parasitic brain disease
that is prevalent among Latin American immigrants.

"After discussions with clinical experts and a review of medical literature, we
concluded that neither more timely medical attention for the head trauma nor a
more timely initial medical exam would have ensured the detainee's recovery from
neurocysticercosis," the report concluded.

Local activists, who called for the report more than two years ago, decried what
they called its "narrow focus."

"This certainly flunks the standard for being prompt and impartial," said Peter
Brown, a member of the national lawyers guild and member of the Maria Inamagua
Campaign for Justice.

"All I can say is it bears the marks of a manipulated process, in that although
(Inspector General) Richard Skinner promised in writing that they would evaluate
all relevant detention standards, in fact they do not."

Brown said he was expecting a thorough review of whether Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, or ICE, detention standards were being followed, including such
things as grievance procedures, communication between ICE staff and detainees,
the placement of detainees in general prison or jail populations. Brown contends
that many of those standards were violated in Merchan's case.

The report did state that Merchan, who had been in the jail for more than a
month after being arrested by ICE for violating a deportation order issued in
1998, was not given a physical exam. ICE's standards, which are often above
those of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, require that detainees at facilities the
agency uses be given a physical exam within 14 days.

Activists pointed to the fact that Merchan was not taken to Regions Hospital
until four hours after a head injury she suffered while getting out of bed.

Merchan's relatives have said authorities did not take her health complaints
seriously. While in jail, even before the injury, she complained about extreme
headaches and was mostly given Tylenol, family members have said.

The fact that she had neurocysticercosis was not known -- even by her family --
until after she was diagnosed at Regions Hospital, where she lapsed into a coma.
She died several days later.

"It's a very sad and tragic case, but the outcome was pre-determined by the
pre-existing condition she brought with her from her own country," said Ramsey
County Sheriff Bob Fletcher. "As they said, there was likely nothing they could
do for her."

County health department head Rob Fulton has said nurses and jail staff followed
protocol in Merchan's case.

The inspector general's report, which also looked into the death of an ICE
detainee in New Mexico, made several recommendations, including enhancing
"coverage guidance" among jail staff concerning infectious diseases and revising
medical intake forms to include questions relating to cysticercosis.

According to the report, ICE formally responded, "Given its large, diverse
detainee population, it is not clear to ICE whether a specific designation of
family history of cysticercosis is warranted on medical intake forms." The
inspector general replied that cysticercosis, while rare, still presented a
well-documented "disproportionate risk" for Latin American immigrants.

It also said ICE should improve oversight at its detention facilities, though it
noted that ICE was taking steps to do so by creating a new inspection unit.

Finally, the report noted that the Ramsey County Jail "had difficulty" meeting
ICE's requirement that a physical exam be given within 14 days of a detainee's
arrival. It found that, over a six-month period, only seven of the 43 new ICE
detainees who stayed for at least 14 days had a physical exam.

"An average of 40 days elapsed between the detainees' intake and the exam," the
reported stated. Only one detainee was given an exam within 14 days, according
to the report.

Fletcher said detainees "do see the nurse within the first 24 hours they're in
there, but whether they have a full physical depends, of course, on their
conditions.

"ICE has always been satisfied with our service," he added. "If they would like
to increase that, we're able and willing to negotiate that as a practice."

Brown had a different take: "It's appalling. Frankly, it's worse than I
thought."

Local ICE spokesman Tim Counts said he had yet to see the report and declined to
comment until he had a chance to review it.

The report also noted that Ramsey County did not give timely tuberculosis
screenings, as per ICE's standards, and criticized ICE for giving the county
acceptable ratings in that area.

Fletcher said the conclusion surprised him.

"I know we have a very active tuberculosis program. ... We're very careful,
because we have to be," he said.

The report recommended revising the ICE monitoring process of the Ramsey County
Jail's medical standards relating to the 14-day rule and making compliance with
timely tuberculosis screenings weigh more heavily on a facility's rating.

Tad Vezner can be reached at 651-228-5461.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Agent: Franco's boyfriend fled to Mexico after fatal school bus crash

BYLINE: By John Brewer jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories

LENGTH: 637 words


WILLMAR -- An Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agent testified for the
prosecution today that he tracked down the boyfriend of Olga Franco to Mexico,
and that a family member said the boyfriend described being in a serious car
crash where people were hurt and dead.

The testimony came on the second day of Franco's trial in Kandiyohi County,
where she faces multiple felony counts for her alleged role in a Feb. 19
accident that killed four children in Cottonwood.

The ICE agent, Jeremy Christenson, told jurors that he tried to locate the
boyfriend, Francisco Sangabriel-Mendoza, after finding his identification papers
in the home he shared with Franco in Minneota.

A federal warrant was issued for his arrest on suspected immigration violations.

The agent interviewed family members of Sangabriel-Mendoza in Willmar, Illinois
and Texas beginning Feb. 28 and determined that the man had hit up family in
Willmar and Illinois for money so he could travel to Texas and into Mexico.

The agents told jurors that Sangabriel-Mendoza even told his sister in Willmar
that he was in an accident and people were injured and killed.

Sangabriel-Mendoza called the sister again Feb. 26, according to Christenson, to
say that he had arrived safely in his hometown of La Pesca, on the Gulf Coast of
Mexico.

Christenson testified that he tried to secure a federal order to extradite
Sangabriel-Mendoza, but the request was denied.

Prosecutor Rick Maes also brought in Susy Campos, the interpreter who assisted
Minnesota State Trooper Dana Larsen during a bedside interview with Franco at
Avera Marshall Hospital in Marshall the day of the crash.

After Campos pointed out Franco as the woman she interpreted for, defense
attorney Manuel Guerrero objected to the witness testimony.

Guerrero questioned Campos's background, which did not include formal training
as an interpreter. He also asked her if she noticed differences in
Spanish-language dialects or if she knew what verbatim interpreting was.

She did not.

Guerrero's most significant complaint was that Campos appeared to answer
questions from Larsen during the interview without posing the questions to
Franco in Spanish.

Referring to a transcript of the interview where Larsen asks if Franco has a
driver's license, Guerrero said, "You don't even ask Ms. Franco what Trooper
Larsen asked you."

"I do not remember not asking her any questions," Campos replied.

Maes countered that it was possible that sections of the transcript labeled
"inaudible" could include the questions from Campos to Franco.

Guerrero still objected to the witness's testimony, and after a 30-minute
recess, she did not return to the courtroom.

Just before the lunch recess today, Maes brought in a Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension agent who testified to finding DNA evidence in the form of
blood on both the driver- and passenger-side airbags from the crashed minivan.

Both samples produced a DNA profile for a man, said agent Amy Liberty. Neither
matched a known sample of Franco's DNA.

A general swab of other bodily fluids from both bags turned up only a DNA
profile for a man -- the same one from the blood samples -- on the passenger
airbag.

The agent said that after a crash, blood could be transferred as people move
around a vehicle -- she had seen the same DNA profile come from two airbags in
other cases, she said.

Guerrero asked if it would be possible for the blood to show up on the
passenger's airbag if a bloody driver reached over and put it there.

She said it was possible.

Guerrero has said his defense will put the boyfriend in the driver's seat during
the crash.

In testimony Thursday, several emergency responders to the scene said they found
Franco in the van's driver's seat, her foot pinned behind the gas pedal.

Testimony will continue this afternoon.

John Brewer can be reached at 651-246-2539.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Attached is a photo of Olga M. Franco, 24, the Guatemalan native
accused of killing four children and injuring 17 more people when the van she
was in crashed into a Cottonwood, Minn., school bus Feb. 19. Franco's trial
starts Monday, July 28, in Willmar. She is being held in the Kandiyohi County
Jail.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 11, 2008 Monday

Immigrant's death sparks Montreal riots

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1089 words


MONTREAL -- Montreal's mayor on Monday promised a swift inquiry into the
shooting death of a Honduran teenager by police after the incident prompted
violent clashes between angry youths and authorities in a heavily Haitian
neighborhood. A police officer was shot in the leg late Sunday, cars were set
ablaze, stores were looted, and firefighters were pelted with beer bottles in
Montreal North, a multiethnic area referred to by local police as the Bronx of
Montreal for its poverty and crime. The violence erupted after a peaceful
protest against the Saturday shooting by police of three unarmed people,
including an 18-year-old man, identified as Freddy Alberto Villanueva, an
immigrant from Honduras, who died of his wounds. Lawmakers demand Musharraf step
down

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Lawmakers in Pakistan's most powerful province on Monday
accused President Pervez Musharraf of gross misconduct and demanded that he step
down, an opening salvo in the ruling coalition's campaign to oust the defiant
former army chief. The political battle unfolded as witnesses reported
Pakistan's military rained bombs on militants in a tribal region along the
border with Afghanistan in fighting that has killed dozens of people and forced
thousands to flee in recent days. Legislators in Punjab province's assembly
voted overwhelmingly, 321-25, for the anti-Musharraf resolution, even drawing
support from 35 members of the main pro-Musharraf party. Though the measure
carries no constitutional weight, it ramps up the pressure on the president.
Musharraf seized power in a 1999 military coup and dominated Pakistan for years,
but he grew increasingly unpopular, especially after he removed dozens of judges
and declared emergency rule last year. Shots end standoff near school

LULA, Ga. -- A suspect was shot to death and a sheriff's deputy was injured
after an hour-long standoff Monday near an elementary school in north Georgia,
authorities said. The school, Lula Elementary, was locked down after a witness
saw a man with a handgun walking on a street that runs behind the school. The
man pointed a gun at an off-duty officer, then fled. The man then barricaded
himself inside his home -- an RV camper -- a few blocks from the school. The
injured deputy, SWAT team member Joe Groover, 35, underwent four hours of
surgery for a severe right arm wound at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, Hall
County Maj. Jeff Strickland said. The suspect died from a gunshot wound shortly
after arriving at a Gainesville hospital. Hospital officials identified him as
65-year-old Herbert Tate. Authorities do not believe Tate intended to harm
anyone at the school. Helicopter hit by gunfire in Darfur

KHARTOUM, Sudan -- A helicopter used by the joint United Nations-African Union
peacekeeping mission in Darfur was hit by gunfire Monday and forced to return to
its airfield. U.N. spokesman Nour-eddine Mezni said it was not immediately clear
who fired, damaging the rear of the aircraft and its radio. There were no
casualties. The force took over peacekeeping duties in January from a
beleaguered African Union-only force but is operating with only about a third of
its authorized 26,000 soldiers. Mayor accused of violating bail terms

DETROIT -- A prosecutor on Monday accused Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick of violating
his bond in an assault case by spending time over the weekend with his sister,
one of 11 witnesses listed by authorities. Kilpatrick and Ayanna Kilpatrick were
together at their mother's house Saturday, a day after he was released from jail
for violating bond in a separate perjury case, said Doug Baker of the Michigan
attorney general's office. The mayor is charged with assaulting two
investigators who were trying to deliver a subpoena at his sister's house in
July in the perjury case. Baker said the mayor had been ordered to have no
contact with witnesses. Kilpatrick's defense team, however, believes the mayor
is not in trouble. Attorney Jim Thomas said Magistrate Renee McDuffee clarified
Friday that Kilpatrick could have contact with his sister. District Judge Ronald
Giles will hold a hearing on the matter today. Thaksin skips bail, back in
London

BANGKOK, Thailand -- Ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra returned to exile
in London, jumping bail and saying Monday he could not expect a fair trial in
his homeland on corruption charges. Thai prosecutors were discussing the
possibility of seeking Thaksin's extradition, and the country's Supreme Court
issued arrest warrants for Thaksin, 59, and his wife. City beefs up its curfew
for teens

HARTFORD, Conn. -- Hartford officials said Monday that police will detain anyone
younger than 18 who violates curfew in the next month in response to recent
violence, including a weekend shooting that left one man dead and six young
people wounded. Saturday's shooting erupted after the annual West Indian Day
parade in the city's North End. Police said 21-year-old Ezekiel Roberts, of
Hartford, was killed, a 7-year-old boy was shot in the head and a toddler was
shot in the leg. Four teens also were shot. Police were still looking for
suspects. Women gaining in government posts

ALBANY, N.Y. -- The number of women in state government leadership positions is
on the rise, with the percentage nearly mirroring their representation in the
general population in six states, a study has found. Of the governor-appointed
posts in all 50 states last year, 35 percent were held by women, up from 28
percent a decade earlier, according to the report by the Center for Women in
Government & Civil Society at the University at Albany. Montana is the only
state where the percentage of women in top state government positions -- 54.5 --
exceeds that of women in the state's overall population -- 50.2. Minnesota
ranked 17th, with 37 percent of top state government positions held by women.
Wisconsin ranked 21st, with women holding 36.4 percent of top state government
jobs. In South Dakota, only about one in every six state leadership jobs was
held by a woman.More refugees fleein the Philippines

MANILA, Philippines -- The number of Filipinos displaced from their homes since
fighting began late last week between government forces and Islamic separatists
in the southern Philippines reached 130,000 on Monday, officials said. Thousands
of residents, the majority of them Muslims, have fleed their homes, many in
carts pulled by water buffalo. Most refugees sought shelter with relatives. Two
soldiers and at least 15 rebels have been killed in the fighting, officials
said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday

Man, 23, sentenced in marriage scam

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 190 words


A St. Paul man was sentenced in federal court Thursday for helping to arrange
phony marriages between U.S. citizens and Chinese nationals.

Houa Vang, 23, pleaded guilty in a St. Paul court in March to one count of
conspiracy to profit from arranging, facilitating and participating in
fraudulent marriages.

Vang was sentenced to a year and a day in prison, along with two years of
parole. A co-conspirator, Le Guo Wu, 31, of Philadelphia, was sentenced to three
years in prison.

According to the U.S. attorney's office, Wu coordinated the effort and
"recruited dozens of U.S. citizens in multiple states ... to enter into sham
marriages with Chinese nationals for the purpose of evading U.S. immigration
laws," while Vang assisted in the effort.

Vang admitted in a plea agreement to recruiting U.S. citizens, helping them file
petitions and visa applications for the fraudulent entry of the Chinese
nationals into the U.S., and helping the Chinese immigrants pursue permanent
residency.

He also agreed to enter into a phony marriage with a Chinese woman for a $20,000
bribe but received less, according to the U.S. attorney's office.

-- Staff report

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 7, 2008 Tuesday

Former employees of Iowa meatpacking plant will be deported

BYLINE: By Trish Mehaffey Cedar Rapids Gazette

SECTION: BREAKING; Business

LENGTH: 331 words


CEDAR RAPIDS -- Former Agriprocessors Inc. employees who were sentenced in May
to five months in prison on identity theft charges will be deported starting
Saturday.

There were 273 people sentenced, and some agreed to be deported after serving
their time as part of a plea agreement. They were charged with use of false
identification to obtain employment, false use of a Social Security number and
illegal re-entry.

Tim Counts, spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said he didn't
have a number of the people who will be deported. Fifty have been deported and
another 50 are going through removal proceedings with an immigration judge.

Counts said it could take a few days to a few weeks to complete the deportation
process. It will take time to pick up the inmates at various state prisons,
including ones in Iowa, Louisiana, Florida and Kansas.

"We have to make sure they have passports or papers to get back into their
countries," Counts said. "Then, we have to arrange flights. I can't give you an
exact date of when they will be deported but it will start Saturday."

The government will pay for the flights, but Counts did not know how much they
will cost. Word of the deportations emerged during a federal court hearing in
Cedar Rapids last week. The court granted a petition by U.S. Secretary of Labor
Elaine Chao to depose nine former Agriprocessors workers before they are
deported Saturday.

Chao is investigating pay practices at the plant, but a criminal complaint
hasn't been filed because she needs additional evidence from the workers, she
argued in the petition.

The Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor investigation started in
June.

Another civil case is pending against Agriprocessors' owner and manager and
other employees, alleging more than 9,000 child labor law violations. The
immigration raid May 12 resulted in more than 390 arrests at the kosher
meatpacking plant in Postville. Most of the immigrants arrested were from Mexico
and Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 185 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 1, 2008 Saturday

Advocate changes the view on U.S. border policies

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Ruben Rosario; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 957 words


Tamar Jacoby thought it could finally pass this time. She believed months of
lobbying by her and other supporters -- from businesses to labor unions to
faith-based groups -- had paid off.

A high-profile author and researcher on immigration, Jacoby believed in her
heart that the majority of the legislators from both houses finally "got it'' --
that passing the controversial comprehensive immigration reform bill, the one
President Bush endorsed, was good for America as well as for American business
and the nation's economy in general.

Then the tsunami hit. An estimated 2 million calls and faxes poured into
legislative offices in the days leading up to the vote last year. They came from
a vocal, well-organized bloc of constituents angrily opposed to any reform that
smelled of amnesty for illegal immigrant workers.

The bill sank like the Titanic. Jacoby saw it go down in person on the Senate
floor.

"It was a very bitter defeat,'' she said last week at an all-day conference on
business and immigration at St. Paul's Neighborhood House. "I haven't had too
many other painful moments like that in my life."

Jacoby, the event's keynote speaker, learned a few tough lessons. One was that
reform-bill supporters were nowhere nearly as organized or vocal as the
opposition.

Another was the power of fear.

"In politics, it's easier to play on people's fears than their pragmatism,'' she
said.

She noted that Republican Sen. Norm Coleman changed his vote after constituents
contacted his office.

"Norm Coleman is one of the most important senators in Congress who voted for it
then voted against it because the uproar was so noisy,'' she said.

On an agriculture immigration-related farm bill, Jacoby said Coleman's office
received 1,100 e-mails in a few days telling him to vote against it.

"They got nine -- not 900, but nine -- telling him to vote for it," she added.
"Now Norm Coleman, in private, gets it. I believe even now we have enough votes
in Congress to win. But they are not going to do stuff that might cost them
(re-election)."

'TECTONIC' CHANGES

Jacoby doesn't believe there will be any real movement on what she calls the
"third rail" of political issues with a new presidential administration,
regardless of who wins. The reason? The slumping economy and the Iraq war will
take precedence, she said.

But she looks at the issue of immigration not through an emotional or
compassionate lens but through a business-climate one. She sees more economic
woes ahead if the nation doesn't reform or revamp existing immigration laws and
quotas.

She cited some factors to make her case:


     ·    Because the global market has become more integrated in recent years,
          more immigration-friendly countries are competing with us for
          foreign-born high-tech and high-skilled scientists, engineers and
          other workers.



     ·    Native-born fertility rates are stagnating, translating to a
          significant drop in future pools of American workers. That plunge will
          become steeper, as an estimated 75 million baby boomers are expected
          to retire and leave the work force.



     ·    In 1960, half of American males dropped out of high school to land
          unskilled-labor and service-sector work. Today, only 10 percent of
          American men drop out of high school, leading to the question: Who
          will fill those jobs?



     ·    Half of all new jobs created in the nation in the past decade were
          filled by foreign-born workers.



     ·    The annual need for unskilled workers, one study estimated, is about
          500,000. Yet the maximum number of visas granted for such workers is
          5,000.


These "tectonic'' demographic and economic changes, Jacoby argues, scream out
for a new system to legalize for work purposes the millions of undocumented
immigrants -- mostly from south of the border but also Eastern Europe and Asia
-- who are living in the nation's shadow economy.

Jacoby favors, once it's deemed nationally effective, E-verify. It's a database
system that lets employers conduct Social Security and other document background
checks on workers. Minnesota requires the system for state workers. Arizona and
Mississippi are the only states that require such checks for all employers,
public and private.

She also favors a proposed national ID card system, which would create a
domestic passport of sorts for all legal residents and workers.

'FEAR AND THE SYSTEM'

"The problem is fear and the system, not the immigrants,'' Jacoby said, adding
that 1.5 million immigrants come to the U.S. legally every year.

"They come high-skill, low-skill, but they come here to work,'' she added.

The undocumented ones "risk their lives to come here, live on the wrong side of
the law, can't really compete with American workers because they can't bargain
for decent wages at the risk of losing their jobs."

Jacoby recalls a recent ride-along with a U.S. Border Patrol agent on the
Mexico-U.S. border. Border resources tripled in the past 22 years. The folks
keep coming. In fact, the only thing that seems to have slowed the rush in
recent months is our economy nearly going into the toilet, not border security.

The border agent, a 30-year veteran, Vietnam War combat vet and law-and-order
type, intimated to her he also finally "got it" -- that it would be easier to
keep an eye out for real bad guys if a guest-worker-type program were
established.

"If another 9/11 happens here on my watch, in Arizona,'' Jacoby said he told
her, "and the reason it happened was because I was busy chasing our next busboy,
that's frightening. I would never forgive myself."

Perhaps that's the right kind of fear that may lead to real reform.

But it will not come anytime soon, as long as the 1,100-to-9 ratio stays the
same.

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651 228-5454.

ONLINE

For more information on Tamar Jacoby, go to immigrationworksusa.org .

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved
