
                               1 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 17, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF DISMISSES NATIONAL PROP. 187 MODERATION: MORE CENTRIST POLICY EXPECTED
FROM GOP-LED CONGRESS.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: Washington


The Clinton administration said Wednesday that the furious winds that propelled
California's Proposition 187 do not portend a national storm, and it expected
more temperate national policy on immigration from the Republican- controlled
Congress.

"It does not bring with it the normal or classic Republican-Democratic
alliances," Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said of the debate stoked by the state initiative denying most public
services to illegal immigrants.

Proposition 187, for example, was backed by Republican Gov. Pete Wilson but
opposed by conservative Republicans Jack Kemp and William Bennett.

Immigration policy "tends to be more of a centrist approach because of how
fundamentally these issues are connected to our values and to how we define
ourselves as a nation," she said.

No national Prop. 187

Indeed, after earlier, blustery predictions of using the voter-approved
California ballot measure as a template for federal law, key Republicans said
Wednesday that they would not push a nationwide Proposition 187.

"I don't think we'll have a national Proposition 187," said Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, the likely chairman of the House subcommittee on immigration. "It's a
national issue with great sensitivity and we need to build bipartisan support
for it."

Far from the promised frenetic GOP lawmaking in the first 100 days of the new
Congress, Smith said he expects a painstaking, monthslong immigration debate
that would include dozens of public hearings.

Still, Smith said, Republicans are likely to move aggressively to clamp down on
illegal immigrants. The GOP will push to strip some social services from illegal
immigrants, he said, but will not go as far as seeking to deny them public
education. Republicans also will explore a national identification card and
scrutinize a proposed national computer registry to help keep them out of
America's workplaces, he said.

"Most people want to send a message that we have to stop subsidizing illegal
immigration," said Smith. "And so do we."

Meissner said she agreed with those -- including Proposition 187's authors --
who argue that a stronger Border Patrol would be among the most effective steps
to quell the voter discontent manifested by the California ballot measure. But
she would not discuss any Clinton administration legislative initiatives for
1995.

'Beef up the INS'

"The people of California have spoken clearly that they want something done
about this problem," said Ronald Prince, who led the pro-Proposition 187
campaign committee. "The single biggest thing Congress can do is to simply beef
up the INS."

While state and federal judges consider whether to block Proposition 187's
enforcement, the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates implementing
the newest amendment to California's Constitution would cost federal taxpayers
$50 million in additional verification and enforcement.

"What it would mean for us is basically the diversion of important resources,"
Meissner said.

Noting that most immigration reform in the past decade sprang from the work of
bipartisan commissions, Meissner suggested that a 2-month-old report from a
federal immigration panel, headed by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, D-Texas, would
serve as a primer for congressional debate in 1995.

"Bipartisanship is now very much the talk in Washington as everybody tries to
get used to this change," Meissner said. "Where immigration is concerned,
bipartisanship has always been much more than just talk."

Controversial call

The Jordan commission's most controversial recommendation called for the
creation of a massive computer registry -- linking Social Security
Administration and Immigration and Naturalization Service data -- to help
enforce a 1986 law that bars illegal immigrants from U.S. payrolls.

While the Clinton administration reportedly had rejected the idea of a national
registry of workers, Meissner said efforts to establish a pilot project
continue. It probably won't immediately include five of the nation's most
populous states -- California, Florida, Texas, New York and Illinois -- as
proposed by the federal panel.

"We are very, very interested in the Jordan commission's proposals," Meissner
said. "We believe in pilot projects. The questions are basically questions of
scale and scope."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 2, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE PROP. 187 MYTH ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HELP TO BUILD, NOT DESTROY, THE STATE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 548 words


THE "save our state" initiative asks us to believe in the myth of the costly
illegal immigrant, the destroyer of the California dream.

Proposition 187 would deny education and most health care to illegal immigrants
and turn California's public servants, from police officers to teachers, into
federal immigration agents.

The truth is that while illegal immigrants do impose some costs, they more than
make up for it through hard work and taxes. The state is not under siege by
illegal immigrants.

Mostly, they work as hard as any of us, and for lower wages. They wash the
restaurant dishes, clean the high-tech offices, make up the hotel beds, harvest
our food. Their cheap labor puts money in our pockets.

California has about 1.4 million illegal immigrants. The nation has about 4
million. Because they generally work for low pay, they probably could use more
public assistance. However, eligibility rules and the fear of deportation keep
them away from welfare programs.

Overall, government spends less on illegal immigrants than on legal ones,
according to recent reliable studies. Even if illegal immigrants pay only 75
percent of the taxes they owe, because many work in the underground economy,
that would still be an average of $2,250 per year per person. That's much higher
than the $1,200 the governor says the average illegal immigrant costs the state.

If there's a dollar drain associated with illegal immigration, it's that most of
their tax money, like everybody else's, goes to Washington. Even native-born
citizens may cost cities, counties and states more than they pay inrevenue.

It's too simple, this cost-of-immigrants business. Proposition 187 overlooks the
other economic contributions of illegal immigrants. They rent apartments, buy
clothes and groceries, eat at restaurants. Their labor on farms and in factories
generates corporate profits and taxes. Add it all up, and illegal immigrants
increase the wealth of California.

Proposition 187 proposes a Wild West scheme for mass deportation. It deputizes
school principals to interrogate 5-year-olds who speak with foreign accents. It
orders doctors in public hospitals to turn in their patients, public health
nurses to report children they have just immunized against measles. It forces
police to turn in witnesses to crimes. Meanwhile, 187 doesn't lift a finger
against ruthless employers who recruit and exploit undocumented workers.

Proposition 187 wouldn't work even if the courts upheld it. Removing public
benefits won't force illegal immigrants to leave the country, because they come
to work, not to sponge from citizens. The U.S. Supreme Court realized this in
1982 when it assured public education for the children of illegal immigrants.
Without education, the court said, they could not contribute in even the
smallest way to the progress of our nation.

Proposition 187 forgets that the state's economic recession is driven by the end
of the Cold War, the decline of the defense industry and government deficits.
Our problems are homegrown and we should face up to it.

Californians don't need to find scapegoats. Together with Mexico and other
nations we can find real solutions to illegal immigration.

Proposition 187 is inflammatory, inhumane and illegal.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS
Election 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 8, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANTI-PROP. 187 EFFORT LAGGING IN FUNDS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 109 words


Efforts to defeat Proposition 187, the ballot initiative that aims to ban
government services for illegal immigrants, are lagging financially, campaign
finance reports show. Less than five weeks before voters go to the polls Nov. 8,
the anti-Proposition 187 campaign reported raising $820,996 between July and
September, with a campaign debt of $125,000. That falls far short of the $3
million to $5 million political consultants say they need for an effective
campaign. The measure would require public schools, hospitals and social workers
to report suspected illegal immigrants to law enforcement officials for
deportation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 20, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP LEADERS CALL PROP. 187 CONTRARY TO THEIR PRINCIPLES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: Washington


A California ballot measure that would eliminate most public services for
illegal immigrants drew its first opposition from national Republican leaders
Wednesday, as conservatives Jack Kemp and William Bennett denounced it.

The former Republican cabinet secretaries issued a statement criticizing
Proposition 187 as contrary to conservative principles and likely to encourage
racial discrimination.

"Concerns about illegal immigration should not give rise to a series of
fundamentally flawed, constitutionally questionable 'solutions' which are not
consonant with our history," the two said.

California's Gov. Pete Wilson, also a Republican, has made support for
Proposition 187 a cornerstone of his re-election campaign. At an appearance in
Los Angeles, Wilson downplayed the comments from party colleagues.

"My response is those are two guys in Washington and it's clear they've been
there too long," Wilson said. "I think when you spend too much time in an ivory
tower think tank, you begin to lose touch with reality."

Prop 187 would deny illegal immigrants public schooling, welfare, non- emergency
health care and other public benefits.

U.S. Rep. Dana Rohrabacher of Orange County, also a Republican, accused Kemp,
who is considered a front runner for the 1996 GOP presidential nomination, of
wanting "to be loved."

"I'm surprised he was dumb enough to do this," Rohrabacher said. "If he didn't
believe in it, he could have kept his mouth shut."

Kemp was in California on Wednesday. He said he knew his comments might cause
teeth-gnashing among some in his party, but that they were "a heartfelt
conclusion. We should be very careful before we ask school officials and public
health officials to start turning over . . . suspected illegal immigrants."

And he said the GOP must "never, ever . . . turn our backs on people of color,
people who want to be part of the American dream."

Bennett, who was education secretary under President Reagan, said the initiative
probably would create a backlash against Hispanics who are legal immigrants.
"It's bad stuff. It is poison in a democracy."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 21, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLASH OVER IMMIGRATION ISSUE REVEALS MAJOR REPUBLICAN RIFT

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1077 words


With their impassioned condemnation of Proposition 187, the initiative to curb
illegal immigration, conservative icons William Bennett and Jack Kemp this week
clashed with Gov. Pete Wilson and commentator Patrick Buchanan, laying bare a
deep fissure in the Republican Party.

At issue is not just the fate of the controversial ballot measure, which was
subjected to its sharpest public debate so far. The battle also has implications
for the future of the GOP and perhaps the presidential aspirations of Kemp,
Buchanan and -- although he steadfastly denies he has any -- Wilson.

Establishment interests up and down California -- including chambers of
commerce, educators, law enforcement officials and health care professionals --
have lined up against the proposition. But with the blessing of the California
Republican Party, Proposition 187 has tapped into populist, anti- immigration
sentiment.

In their statement Wednesday, Bennett and Kemp said contributing to "a nativist,
anti-immigrant climate" threatens the long-term vitality of the GOP. "The
Republican Party helped to create a Democratic base in many of America's cities
with its hostile stand toward the last generation of immigrants from Italy,
Ireland and the nations of Central Europe," they said. "Can anyone calculate the
political cost of again turning away immigrants, this time turning away Asians,
Hispanics and others?"

Proposition 187 would deny government services to illegal immigrants and would
require educators and health workers to report those whom they suspect are in
the country without proper documentation.

In essence, Bennett and Kemp have two arguments. First, they argue that
immigrants are a positive influence on America "worth celebrating, not demeaning
or denying." More importantly, they worry openly that if Proposition 187 passes
in California it will sweep across the country and become a central plank in the
Republican Party's national platform, threatening to make the GOP a whites-only
party for another generation.

"They're trying to appeal to a broader base and to get the Republican Party out
of a narrowly conservative perspective -- one which, as they say, is nativist
and which could be construed as racist," said Ann Crigler, a political science
professor at the University of Southern California.

Wilson rejects analysis

Wilson sharply rejected the Bennett-Kemp analysis. "These are two fellows living
in Washington who have lived there too long," Wilson said Thursday in Burbank at
the taping of a TV news show. "They are totally out of touch with California,"
Wilson said, describing their opposition to the initiative as "disgraceful for
these two people, who should know better."

In Virginia, Buchanan issued a statement calling the Bennett-Kemp statement "a
slander on the millions of Californians who support the proposition."

"It is not bigotry to put your own country and your own family first," Buchanan
said. "That is the essence of true charity and patriotism."

Said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach, of Kemp's statement: "His act of
stupidity has knocked him right out of the presidential race. If he disagreed
with it, he should have kept his mouth shut."

Meanwhile, Republican Senate candidate Rep. Michael Huffington waded into the
boiling waters Thursday, endorsing the measure and thereby rejecting the lead of
Bennett, his ideological guru.

"It's time to send a message to those illegal immigrants who disregard our law
and take advantage of our government's misplaced generosity," said a Huffington
campaign statement.

That left Democratic U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Republican Attorney General
Dan Lungren as the two most prominent California candidates without a position
on Proposition 187. Democratic candidate for governor, Treasurer Kathleen Brown,
has forcefully rejected the measure as unjust, costly and impractical.

Strong GOP support

According to the most recent Los Angeles Times poll, Republicans favor the
measure 75-19 percent and Democrats support it 52-40 percent. Among independent
voters, the measure leads 57-34 percent.

While their statement is the most thorough yet issued by conservatives, the
Bennett-Kemp manifesto on immigration is not the first word from conservatives
in opposition to Proposition 187.

Conservative columnist William Safire called Proposition 187 a "nativist
abomination . . . (that would) put hard-working immigrants in costly jails."

Unsuccessful GOP gubernatorial candidate Ron Unz, a conservative libertarian,
has said, "It would be a financial and social disaster for California, and the
worst moral disaster for our state since the internment of Japanese-Americans in
1942."

And Republican strategist Steve Merksamer has said he could not possibly vote
for a law that "turns teachers into policemen" and which, after being declared
unconstitutional, will further undermine public confidence in the political
system.

Even Wilson -- who argues passionately for approval of the measure -- seems to
have no stomach for its enforcement.

In the Oct. 14 gubernatorial debate, reporter Mark Coogan asked Wilson, if he
were a principal, "could you look that second grader in the eye and reach for
the telephone and dial the INS?"

Up to the courts

Said Wilson: "Mark, what I would -- what I would say to you is that 187 will
produce a lawsuit and that lawsuit will go all the way to the United States
Supreme Court and they will resolve the question as to whether or not the
taxpayers of California should pay for the education of that child if he is in
the country illegally."

In their argument, Bennett and Kemp noted that illegal immigrants already are
ineligible for welfare benefits and said "the main target is public education."
But to accomplish its goals, the measure could require U.S.-born children of
illegal immigrants "to inform on their parents" and would turn private
individuals into "quasi-border guards" and "de facto INS agents."

The Bennett-Kemp argument demonstrates "a real division over how you become a
national, majority party," said Sam Popkin, a political science professor at the
University of California, San Diego. The question they pose, he suggested, is
whether the party should seek short-term gains by appealing to "pessimistic,
angry" voters, or reach out to new immigrants as a source of strength for the
future.

"Right or wrong it took a lot of guts and courage for them to do it," Popkin
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: Wilson
Expects Prop.
187 to go to U.S
941021 FR 26A 3.
PHOTO: Huffington
Splits with his
guru Bennett
941021 FR 26A 4
PHOTO: Bennett
Says target is
public education
941021 FR 1A 1; color
PHOTO: Kemp
Denounces
'nativist' climate.
941021 FR 1A 2; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 22, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON, FEINSTEIN TEAM UP AGAINST PROP. 187 IMMIGRATION: THEY CALL THE STATE
MEASURE ILLEGAL.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER AND LAURA KURTZMAN,, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 731 words


Lending their voices to a politically eclectic chorus condemning California's
Proposition 187, Sen. Dianne Feinstein and President Clinton on Friday called
the explosive anti-immigration ballot measure illegal and wasteful.

Feinstein, who is locked in a tight race with Rep. Michael Huffington, said her
opposition to the popular measure "will cost me votes, quite possibly even the
election. But I simply do not believe it will work." Huffington on Thursday,
endorsed the measure, which would deny state services, including health care and
public schooling, to illegal immigrants.

Although immigration is a federal issue, it has played a smaller role so far in
the Senate race than in the governor's race, where Republican Gov. Pete Wilson
has made it a cornerstone of his re-election campaign. Wilson supports
Proposition 187; his Democrat opponent, State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, opposes
it.

Feinstein leading

Mark DiCamillo, director of the Field Poll, declined to predict whether
Feinstein's opposition to the measure would damage her chances for re- election.
Recent polls have given Feinstein a slight lead over Huffington. However, the
ballot measure is extremely popular, winning support from two- thirds of those
asked.

Feinstein, who visited San Francisco on Friday to address the Commonwealth Club,
tried to inoculate herself by talking at length about two bills she is
sponsoring to tighten border security. She said Proposition 187 would do nothing
to stem illegal immigration across California's border with Mexico.

She also said the measure would put Californians at risk of losing $15 billion
in federal money, forcing state officials to raise taxes. And she said the
measure would create a social disaster by forcing hundreds of thousands of
children out of school.

Warning issued

"Think what the added costs would be if 400,000 youngsters are summarily kicked
out of school," she said. "Most of their parents work. Think of the fertile
recruiting ground for gangs, for crime, for drugs."

Speaking at a White House news conference on the day before his Northern
California visit, Clinton also said the measure was poorly thought out.

"I don't think as a matter of practice it's a good thing to condition an
election referendum, much less other elections in California, on a measure that
even the supporters say is unconstitutional," he said.

Ron Prince, chairman of the Save Our State initiative campaign, which put 187 on
the ballot, dismissed Feinstein's claim that the measure would result in higher
taxes for Californians.

"This sounds like the kind of political talk that we've been hearing for years.
Politicians like to talk, but they don't like to do anything," Prince said. "The
people of California understand this problem too well to be swayed by political
endorsements one way or the other. They've made up their own minds." Republicans
back plan

Most Republican leaders in the state support the initiative. But this week, two
national GOP chieftains -- former Cabinet secretaries Jack Kemp and William
Bennett -- rejected the initiative as constitutionally suspect and racially
divisive.

Clinton made a point of mentioning the Republican opposition.

"I sort of agree with what Jack Kemp and Bill Bennett said . . . and I applaud
them for saying it," Clinton said. "I mean, this is an issue again when our
parties ought to be together. Historically, both Republican and Democratic
parties have been strengthened by our immigrants."

Clinton also extended a cross-country debate with Wilson about what he has
accomplished in controlling immigration, saying spending on immigration problems
is up 32 percent and 1,000 border guards have been added.

Wilson aides were quick to denounce the president's comments, criticizing his
administration for what they termed its failure to fully reimburse the state for
immigration-related costs they estimate at nearly $10 billion.

Critical of Clinton

"I guess politics makes strange bedfellows," said Leslie Goodman, Wilson's
communications director. "But what Bill Clinton said (Friday) will be a
disappointment to most Californians who feel strongly about 187.

"He has sent a message that we should have a permanent entitlement program. It
shows how out of touch he is -- sitting there in that White House -- with the
concerns of people living here with the problem."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Feinstein
941022 CA 3B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 29, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDENTS PROTEST PROP. 187 IMMIGRATION: MARCHES AND BOYCOTTS IN SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA AND ALONG THE BORDER OPPOSE THE BALLOT MEASURE THAT WOULD DENY
SERVICES TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: SALLY STREFF BUZBEE, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: San Diego


More than 8,000 high school and junior high students walked out of class Friday
across Southern California to protest the anti-illegal immigration measure that
has become this state's key election issue.

In one incident in San Diego, police had to intervene after about 200 students
in a group of 1,200 on break at Southwest Junior High School refused to go back
to class. Shouting matches flared, and some cars were vandalized.

"It just got out of hand," said Sweetwater school district spokeswoman Rita
Vandergriff. Police arrived and within an hour most of the 200 had left campus.
All students were sent home early. About 20 will face discipline.

Meanwhile, the California National Guard alerted its commanders to possible
unrest at protests planned this weekend along the U.S.-Mexico border between San
Diego and Tijuana, Mexico.

National Guard 'aware'

"We are not putting soldiers in armories. We are not going on alert," said Lt.
Col. Bruce Roy, a spokesman for the National Guard in Sacramento. "We just want
our commanders to be aware of the situation, to put fresh batteries in their
pagers, as it were."

Publicity about the National Guard memo added to jitters in a state that has
seen emotions over Proposition 187 skyrocket in recent days.

"I think somebody's going to have to take responsibility for the potential
violence that may erupt," said Juan Jose Gutierrez, executive director of One
Stop Immigration and Educational Center in Los Angeles, who helped organize an
Oct. 16 anti-Proposition 187 march that drew 70,000 people.

Would deny services

The measure on the Nov. 8 ballot would cut off school, welfare and most health
services to undocumented immigrants, and require school and health officials to
turn illegal immigrants in.

In recent weeks, Proposition 187 has led to some of the most widespread student
protests seen in California in many years.

In Los Angeles and its suburbs Friday, more than 5,000 students walked out of
seven high schools, strolling in loose groups down surrounding streets. A few
hoisted Mexican flags.

Police went on tactical alert as a precaution, but the protests were peaceful.
About 2,600 students walked out of Chatsworth High School and 2,000 from Monroe
High School, both in the San Fernando Valley. Several hundred students walked
out from five other schools.

March 'pretty quiet'

In Oxnard, north of Los Angeles, about 1,500 to 2,000 students from 10 schools
marched to a park. Police made four arrests, mostly for fights among students.
"It went pretty quiet," said spokesman David Keith.

The National Guard's memo to its commanders warns of planned demonstrations this
weekend at the U.S.-Mexico border as well as potential problems on or after
Election Day.

Two weeks ago, about 200 protesters showed up at the busy San Diego-Tijuana car
crossing point to protest Proposition 187, which they called racist, and to
demand a boycott of U.S. firms. That demonstration was peaceful.

Protests on border

Today and Sunday, residents in eight Mexican border cities from California to
Texas plan similar boycotts and protests. About 40,000 boycott fliers were
distributed in Nogales, Mexico, for example, just across the border from
Nogales, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
San Diego high school students rally Friday against Proposition 187. A number of
them wore badges saying they were illegal immigrants.
941029 CA 3B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 30, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICANS PROTEST AT THE BORDER

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: Tijuana, Mexico


Mexicans angered by Proposition 187, a California ballot measure that would deny
public services to illegal immigrants, rallied at a border crossing Saturday to
urge a boycott of San Diego stores.

While the crowd of about 150 people cheered, at least six U.S.-bound cars made
U-turns at the San Ysidro border crossing on what is normally the busiest
shopping day of the week.

"If we're not important for California, we should not cross -- and then see what
happens to their economy," said Felipe de Jesus Equihua of Tijuana, one of the
organizers of the "Operation Dignity" rally.

Tijuana resident Rosario Burciago was crossing the border to go to work legally
in San Diego, but he agreed with the protesters.

"Mexicans are being blamed for California's problems," Burciago said.

Proposition 187, on the Nov. 8 ballot, would deny most health, welfare and
education benefits to illegal immigrants.

Students have staged walkouts protesting the measure, and a protest two weeks
ago drew as many as 70,000 people in Los Angeles.

Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, has endorsed the measure in his run for re-
election. He estimates that California is home to 1.7 million illegal immigrants
who cost taxpayers $2.4 billion a year in government services.

Addressing a campaign rally in Valencia, Wilson criticized people from outside
the state who oppose Proposition 187.

"We don't need people who are not even Californians telling us how to vote on
187. . . . We're going to pass 187, and when we do, we'll end the unfairness,"
he said.

His Democratic opponent, Kathleen Brown, opposes the measure, but wants to
strengthen border patrols. Polls show that most Californians support the
measure.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related articles on page 1A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  November 4, 1994 Friday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

PROP. 187: DENYING SERVICES TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS POLICE AIM TO KEEP RIVAL
RALLIES QUIET

BYLINE: S.L. WYKES, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 528 words


Members of two vocal groups on opposite sides of the immigration issue will find
themselves literally face to face in downtown Mountain View on Saturday because
city officials have issued permits allowing both to protest at the same time and
place.

Mountain View police Lt. Larry Bertuccelli will try to keep the peace as Kenneth
Record's Yes on 187 Coalition and Reynaldo Herrera's Latinos Unidos de Mountain
View march and hold rallies near Castro Street at midday. Bertuccelli tried
unsuccessfully to persuade the sides to change plans.

Dividing the groups is Proposition 187, a state ballot proposal to make public
health care, social services and education inaccessible for illegal immigrants.
It is on Tuesday's ballot.

No one knows exactly how city officials issued permits for the groups, whose
members have clashed before, for demonstrations that will at one point converge.

On first seeing the permits, "I thought it was the same group," Bertuccelli
said. He immediately saw potential trouble, however.

Record, a former school board member, is also founder of the Save Mountain View
Coalition, a citizens group whose goal, in Record's words, is to keep the city
from becoming "a Third World outpost" for cheap labor.

Herrera's group has lobbied hard, with police and politicians, to work out ways
to accommodate day laborers and to represent the interests of legal immigrants.

While Latinos Unidos' members agree there is an immigrant problem, Herrera said,
they do not believe Proposition 187 is the solution. "Maybe when they rewrite
it, we will be marching 'pro,' " Herrera said.

In January, as Record's group collected signatures to qualify Proposition 187
for Tuesday's ballot, Herrera's group shared the sidewalks of El Camino Real in
a demonstration that escalated to shouting.

In Saturday's demonstrations, the Yes on 187 group will rally at Mountain View
City Hall Plaza, which fronts onto Castro Street, at 11 a.m., while Latinos
Unidos will walk down Castro Street to El Camino Real for a rally at Rengstorff
Park.

This time, "with the intent of keeping the peace, I thought there might be some
way we could minimize the potential for danger and for confrontation,"
Bertuccelli said. He called both groups to see if they would reschedule their
events.

Neither would -- Latinos Unidos had already sent out detailed fliers, Herrera
said. Record did not return a reporter's phone call, so it is not known why his
group was not willing to modify its plans.

"Both sides assured me that they were doing everything within their power to
make these peaceful events," Bertuccelli said. He tried more persuasion, but
failed.

Finally, Herrera found a creative solution. His group will walk down the
sidewalk on the far side of Castro Street from the plaza. That section of the
street is divided by a median strip and everyone at both rally and march will be
watched carefully by police, Bertuccelli said.

"Once that flash point is past, the two rallies can get on and I doubt there'll
be trouble," he said.

"We would like to emphasize this is a peaceful march and we will not respond to
any provocations," Herrera said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Related story page 1A & 3B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 7, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON VOWS HELP FOR STATE IMMIGRATION: HE PROMISES TO SEEK MORE MONEY, SAYS
PROP. 187 IS WRONG.

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Two days before Californians vote on an incendiary ballot measure to curb
illegal immigration, President Clinton said he agrees that the federal
government should pay for services to illegal immigrants. He argued that
Proposition 187 is the wrong answer because it is based on "resentment and
frustration and fear and division."

Clinton vowed Sunday to seek more funding to help pay California's costs from
illegal immigration. But he said it was "disingenuous" of Republican Gov. Pete
Wilson to use the issue in his bid for re-election because when Wilson was a
U.S. senator "he sponsored legislation to make it easier for illegal immigrants
to come in here and work."

The president rejected the label "racist" to describe Proposition 187, the
measure to deny schooling and all but emergency medical care to undocumented
immigrants. He said, however, that while there are legitimate concerns driving
the initiative, "I think there is some racial energy there" and he sympathized
with those who believe it is "motivated in part by racial impulses."

Wilson responded harshly to Clinton's critique, calling his remarks about the
divisiveness of Proposition 187 "ugly and beneath contempt."

In an hourlong round table interview with eight California political writers,
Clinton said, "I am repeatedly pushing for more funding, and I will do my best
to get more funding." And though he would not say how much he thinks the state
should receive, he dismissed the $3 billion price tag Wilson has placed on the
issue.

"No one I know believes those figures," he said. "I don't even think they
(Wilson administration officials) believe those figures."

The president was asked whether he thinks it is a federal or a state
responsibility to pay for non-emergency health care and the education of illegal
immigrants -- the funding that Proposition 187 would cut off.

"I believe it ought to be the federal responsibility, but I think there ought to
be an offset for the taxes that are going to the state from the wages of
undocumented aliens who are actually working and paying taxes and paying money
to the state," he said.

"I don't think the state ought to make a profit out of this deal either. I don't
think the state should lose money, but I don't think it should gain money out of
this either," he said.

"As a matter of principle I have always believed that the federal government,
since it has jurisdiction over immigration policy -- states don't get to have
their own immigration policy -- should do everything it can to bear the cost of
those policies or the failure of those policies when they're imposed on states.
That's why I have sought to do more, and I will continue to seek to do more."
However, he said, "this problem was made in part in federal law by people from
California who wanted those illegal immigrants in previous years. So I think for
the governor to say 'Here's a hole in my budget, you all fix it' when the hole
was created in part by federal policies he helped to enact is a little
disingenuous when I'm the first person who's tried to help him."

Wilson responded in kind. "I think he demeans his office," the governor said.
"He has not told the truth. He has not done his job. If he had done his job,
there would be no need for 187."

"I think his performance in this state has been pathetic," Wilson told reporters
after a GOP rally at the Orange County Fairgrounds. And he called Clinton's
efforts to help curb California's illegal immigration problems "election-year
cosmetics."

In his interview with reporters at the San Francisco Fairmont Hotel, Clinton was
asked what message he would hear if, as proponents argue, Proposition 187 is
approved in order to send a message to Washington.

"The message I've had since I became president -- which is that the people of
California are concerned about illegal immigration at a time when their economy
is in trouble and they want the federal government to reduce it and to help them
bear more of the cost of dealing with it. . . . You know, I don't need a
message. I had the message from the day I became president."

Asked whether he considers Proposition 187 to be "racist," Clinton said:

"No. Well, let me say this. I think there is some racial energy there, some
element to it," he said. "But I think what is mostly going on here is I think
it's part of the politics of resentment."

He said he believes that many of California's legal immigrants "feel that it is
motivated in part by racial impulses. And whether it is or not, it will have an
impact that is divisive."

"But I think the real motivation for it is frustration at the inability of the
country or the state to control illegal immigration in a time of economic
distress where citizens feel the need to fill all the jobs that are available
and feel the need to have all their tax money spent on people who are legally in
this country."

He said California's ethnic diversity is a "precious resource, and it's being
frayed and tattered by the politics of resentment and frustration."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Mercury News Staff Writer Scott Thurm contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Clinton checks out the rain at San Francisco airport Sunday, above,
941107 FR 6A 1
PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
and Gov. Pete Wilson joins Michael Huffington at a rally in Monrovia, right.
941107 FR 6A 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 17, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE BLOCKS PROP. 187 U.S. ORDER: 'SERIOUS' ISSUES FREEZE PARTS OF THE LAW
DENYING SERVICES TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: PAMELA KRAMER AND KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


A federal judge Wednesday delayed enforcement of most of Proposition 187 after
state attorneys defended the incendiary initiative and another legal platoon
attacked the constitutionality of denying public services to illegal immigrants.

U.S. District Judge William Matthew Byrne Jr. said the measure, approved by 59
percent of voters last week, raised "serious" constitutional questions.

A temporary restraining order will be in effect for at least 10 days or until
lawyers battling Proposition 187 can seek a more permanent injunction while the
case moves through the courts. A hearing for that injunction is scheduled
Wednesday in two of the four cases heard Wednesday.

Last week, a San Francisco Superior Court judge barred until at least February
implementation of Proposition 187's requirement that illegal immigrants be
expelled from the state's public schools.

The federal order leaves intact provisions punishing the manufacture,
distribution, sale and use of bogus immigration papers. But it freezes
implementation of sections denying public education, social services and non-
emergency medical care to illegal immigrants.

During Wednesday's hearing, the judge at times seemed frustrated with attorneys
for the state and their inability to answer specific questions about how the law
would be implemented. Regulations for enforcement of the measure are still being
drafted by state agencies at the direction of Gov. Pete Wilson, who touted
Proposition 187 during his successful re-election campaign but balked at
revealing details as to how the law would work.

"I can't speculate as to what those regulations are going to be," said Byrne,
appearing testy.

Attorneys for a raft of individuals and organizations suing the state charged
officials with now trying to rewrite the law to make it constitutional.

"It's like giving a face lift to Frankenstein to try to turn him into Mother
Teresa," said Mark Rosenbaum, an attorney for the American Civil Liberties
Union.

He and other attorneys predicted the state will not be able to salvage the law.
"They would have to change the English language," said Bruce Iwasaki, an
attorney in the ACLU suit.

Among the arguments offered against the proposition were that it:

* Violates immigrants' rights to due process by not allowing a hearing if
services for them are denied.

* Pre-empts federal laws, forcing providers of education and social services to
take on the role of U.S. immigration officials.

* Violates the U.S. Constitution by treating people in similar situations
differently.

The law, attorney Stephen Yagman said, "in effect would create a huge
underclass" of uneducated people out of school. Other lawyers said some of the
measure's provisions would cause a health hazard.

The attorneys opposing the measure in court also argued that even if the state
doesn't intend to enforce the law immediately, its passage has created an
immediate climate of fear. Many people fear that information they give to
educators or other service providers now will be used to deport them down the
road.

Jon Ichinaga, an attorney representing the state, tried to assure the judge that
the law would be implemented constitutionally and humanely.

Ron Prince, one of the founders of the movement that spawned the proposition,
said outside the courtroom that he wasn't surprised by the order. He said that
while it may take two or three years to move through the system, "we anticipate
that it's going to be upheld."

Prince said he was surprised, however, that the state attorneys had trouble
explaining to the judge what harm a restraining order would cause the state.

Ichinaga would not comment after the hearing. But state Attorney General Dan
Lungren called the ruling "disappointing."

"By delaying the state's mandate to implement this new law, the court is also
denying the will of California voters, who specifically rejected the status quo
on Nov. 8," Lungren said in a press release.

"It's the same old thing -- special interests seeking to block the will of the
people," said Rick Oltman, who headed the Yes on 187 -- Save Our State
Committee. "To them I say, 'Wake up! The people have spoken.' "

But Robert Rubin, of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San Francisco,
said he was happy the judge listened to reason.

"Unfortunately, though, there is much room between a court order and realities
in the immigrant community," Rubin said. "In the past week, there have been
repeated reports of improper questioning of people in stores, banks and
restaurants because of the atmosphere created by 187. . . . In restaurants, they
say, 'You're Mexican and we won't serve you.' "

Bay Area health clinics and hospitals said Wednesday that they hoped the judge's
order would make it more comfortable for their patients to come to clinics for
needed treatment.

"There are a lot of awful rumors out there," said John Grima, executive director
of East Valley Community Clinic in San Jose. One story was that undocumented
women were being deported after giving birth -- but that the government was
keeping their babies because they were U.S. citizens, he said. Through outreach
efforts aimed at assuring immigrants that they wouldn't be reported to
immigration authorities, he said, clinic traffic is back to normal after
dropping off nearly 75 percent the day after the election.

"If they don't come in for prenatal care, the cost will be very expensive
later," he said.

Oltman said Proposition 187 opponents "will always try to tug at heartstrings.
But if doctors want to give free health care, go right ahead. Just don't stick
the taxpayer with the bills. Illegal immigrants aren't our responsibility."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 22, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187'S MATH PROBLEM

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 640 words


PROPOSITION 187 came up from the sewer last week and, to no one's surprise, it
gagged on the fresh air.

State and federal judges in California temporarily restrained this nativist
thing that would beat up on immigrant schoolkids, throw their hard-working
parents in prison if they falsify work papers, and promote pain and suffering by
cutting health care services to illegal immigrants. Other than that, it's a fine
law.

But Gov. Pete Wilson, who married his re-election and his place in history to
Proposition 187, keeps pushing it. He never quits, at least not when he's
picking on Mexicans, Asians and people smaller and weaker than him. While 187
was getting thumped in court, he got Newt Gingrich, speaker-of-the-House-to- be,
to agree to nationalize Proposition 187.

This deal belongs in the department of: Be careful what you wish for because you
might get it.

Gingrich said he'd push the new Republican Congress to either pay for all state
services to illegal immigrants or cut off those services entirely. Since the
courts will have the final say on Proposition 187, Pete and Newt are really left
with the option of reimbursing the states.

Let's pretend for a minute that Wilson's arithmetic is right and illegal
immigrants do terrible things to California. In this fantasy, illegal immigrants
don't pay state income taxes, gasoline taxes and sales taxes. The industries
they keep alive don't pay state corporation taxes. They don't spin off business
for citizen workers. In the state according to Pete, Californians don't benefit
by the labor of illegal immigrants who do the menial work that citizens won't.
In Wilson World, Gingrich and all those small-government Republicans are going
to write a fat $2.8 billion check to California.

And then they'll write another one for Texas. And Florida. And New York,
Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and . . . before you know it . . . every governor
will be knocking on Gingrich's door saying, "Where's mine?"

Any governor facing the choice between higher taxes or statewide budget cuts
will recognize the federal reimbursement as a bailout. To maximize their
returns, they'll high-ball their number of illegal immigrants. They'll throw
temper tantrums when the census undercounts illegal immigrants. Pretty soon,
they'll quietly ask the feds to drop those lunatic plans for moats and steel
walls along the border.

The raid on the federal treasury will get downright laughable.

Dinky New England states will want reimbursement for undocumented Irishmen
tending bar at Cheers. Mountain states with more cattle than people will blame
undocumented Mexican cowboys for the lingering energy industry recession and
demand federal aid. Ghostly Mexican farmworkers will appear from Midwestern
cornfields. If you fake it, the check will come.

On second thought, I like this refund thing.

Gingrich will be in a real pickle. What's he going to do, clamp down on the
Republican governors of California, Texas and New York?

But Proposition 187 is DOA in the courts. If not, there'll be massive civil
disobedience by Latinos and Asians and continued assaults against it by true
conservatives, like William Bennett and Jack Kemp, who recognize the measure's
heavy-handed intrusiveness and cultural paranoia. Moderate Republicans will soon
get it if they don't already.

Let's stop apologizing for illegal immigrants. The truth is that a porous border
works to our advantage. It's our dirty little secret. When you add up the right
numbers -- the taxes illigal immigrants pay and the value of their economic
productivity -- they are a bargain. And they're decent, optimistic, hard-working
family people. They're risk-takers. If anybody is keeping the California Dream
alive, it's them.

Illegal immigrants aren't a problem. Cynical and hypocritical politicians are.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
Joe Rodriguez is a Mercury News editorial writer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: CATHERINE KANNER
941122 ED 7B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 22, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PETE'S MISERY INDEX

BYLINE: William Safire

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 675 words


THE VICTORY in California of the movement to deny schooling and medical services
to illegal immigrants who are not actually bleeding to death is the first
skirmish in the war on unwed welfare mothers.

That's because both Proposition 187 (punishing some 300,000 immigrant
schoolchildren for the sins of their fathers) and Newt Gingrich's approach to
welfare reform (withholding support when unemployed single mothers have
additional children) are based on this philosophy: The most cost-effective way
to change behavior is to make life unbearable under present behavior.

During the recent resurgence of righteousness, I called California Gov. Pete
Wilson "the best candidate with the worst issue" and Prop. 187 a "nativist
abomination."

Years ago, I came to admire him when, as a senator, he exposed the abuse of the
franking privilege by incumbents. Early this year I reported Richard Nixon's
prediction that a California comeback victory would make Wilson the front-runner
for the '96 Republican nomination -- and if running-mated with Gov. Christy
Whitman of New Jersey, the ticket would win. Visiting Washington last week,
Wilson invited me over to screw my head back on properly.

About the nativism charge: He is eager that it be understood that he is not
anti-immigrant, only anti-illegal immigrant. "One in four Californians are legal
immigrants," he says, "and they don't need lectures on the contributions of
legal immigrants. In fact, they are the most vociferous critics of illegal
immigration. . . . The issue is the rule of law."

OK, with a sizable portion of voting Latinos in favor of curbing their illegal
competitors, let's grant that most of the proposition's supporters are neither
nativist nor racist. Support from those who resent all immigrants, legal and
not, surely came Wilson's way, but it does not mean he shares their prejudices.
About the privacy-intrusion charge, turning teachers into immigration agents:
"Teachers don't enroll students," Wilson says, implying it is only the
administrators' job and not the teachers' job. He says that school districts
everywhere ask for proof of residence, and adds that all applicants to federal
jobs must produce verifiable citizenship documents. (He's against national ID
cards.)

Maybe he can bolster that defense of 187 in court with regulations against
discrimination or intrusion in its enforcement. But no administrative
amelioration is likely to alter the requirement that schools have reverse truant
officers assigned to root out those sneaky little offspring of illegals trying
to cop a freebie education.

What's Wilson's purpose in all this? To get budget-cutting Washington to
reimburse California $2.5 billion a year for state services to the illegals? To
get the feds to stem the tide of invaders, many of whom sashay in as tourists?
Yes to both, but more: "If it's clear to you that you cannot be employed, and
that you and your family are ineligible for services, you will self- deport." I
take the import of that to be: Make 'em so miserable that they leave the
country. To which many law-abiding Americans, especially tax-burdened
Californians, would say: Hooray!

Ebenezer Scrooge is my hero, too, but that neatly theoretical "economic
disincentive" won't disincent -- because being miserable here doesn't compare
with the misery they ran away from.

Do we really want to drive most illegal families deeper underground, many to
lives of crime? Would we rather have 300,000 children on the streets, learning
costly delinquency -- or safely in school, becoming potential citizens and
taxpayers?

Pete Wilson wants an immigration plank in the Republican platform. Fine; it
should include federal reimbursement, amnesty, border control -- but none of
this creation of an uneducated, unmedicated underground.

After our talk, I am prepared to withdraw the charge that 187 is driven
primarily by nativism. But in terms of practicality and of the American spirit,
a government policy of making any child's life miserable is still an
abomination.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
William Safire is a New York Times columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 6, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TARGETED FIRMS DENY ENDORSEMENT PROP. 187 BOYCOTTS PLANNED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 250 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


Domestic and international companies threatened with boycotts of their popular
products and services said Monday they have never endorsed California's
controversial new law against illegal immigrants.

"We did not support or oppose Proposition 187," Atlantic Richfield Co. spokesman
Al Greenstein said. "We never gave a dime to either side. We remain neutral on
this issue."

At a weekend conference in Tucson, Ariz., Hispanic activists threatened to
nationally boycott firms including Arco, the Walt Disney Co., Chevron Corp. and
Mervyn's department stores for allegedly supporting Proposition 187.

Constitutional challenge

Approved by California voters in the Nov. 8 election, the measure denies most
public services to illegal immigrants. It has yet to be enforced and is being
challenged in court on constitutional grounds.

Roberto Martinez of the American Friends Service Committee in San Diego said
activists are planning to begin boycotting Disney theme parks and merchandise
and Chevron oil products early next year. Actions against the other companies
are still being discussed.

Campaign donations

The firms were targeted because of their campaign contributions to Republican
Gov. Pete Wilson, re-elected last month on a platform built in considerable part
on denying public services to illegal immigrants.

"We see them as synonymous," Martinez said.

The firms see it differently.

"We contributed to both gubernatorial campaigns," Disney spokesman John
McClintock said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 15, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL JUDGE OKS INJUNCTION ON PROP. 187 ENFORCEMENT LIMITED: ONLY TWO OF THE
INITIATIVE'S PROVISIONS ARE ACCEPTED.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


A federal judge prohibited enforcement of most Proposition 187 provisions on
Wednesday, saying the measure endangers public health and appears to conflict
with the federal government's authority to regulate immigration.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer granted a preliminary injunction after a 2
1/2-hour hearing.

The injunction bars enforcement of all but two provisions of the measure: One
that prohibits illegal immigrants from receiving public higher education and
another banning the sale and use of false immigration documents.

The judge blocked enforcement of bans on public school education, social
services and non-emergency health services to illegal immigrants.

Pfaelzer said Proposition 187 denies health and social services to some
immigrants who may be entitled to receive them under federal law, and could
pressure some into leaving the country although they have the right to remain.
The judge noted that only the federal government has the authority to determine
who can enter and remain in the United States.

The health care provision had serious implications, Pfaelzer said.

"The loss of medical services for illegal aliens could result in greater health
risks for the general population," she said.

The injunction stays in effect until a trial to determine disputed facts in the
case takes place but, unlike the case of the temporary restraining order the
judge issued previously, the state can appeal the preliminary injunction to
higher courts.

It may be several years before those claims are resolved. Pfaelzer's Nov. 22
restraining order had kept enforcement on hold pending her consideration of the
injunction.

Proposition 187 was approved by 59 percent of the voters on Nov. 8.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 7, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAWYERS GO TO BAT FOR PROPOSITION 187'S EDUCATION BAN

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


The high cost of educating illegal immigrants in recession-plagued California
justifies Proposition 187's ban on public education for undocumented children,
lawyers for Gov. Pete Wilson argued Friday.

In papers filed with a Superior Court judge, Wilson's lawyers said a 1982 U.S.
Supreme Court ruling requiring Texas to educate illegal immigrants does not
apply to Proposition 187 because the impact of illegal immigration is much worse
in California.

"California is . . . the state most affected by immigration, and in particular
by the influx of illegal aliens," 42 percent of whom live in the state, said
Deputy Attorney General Frank Furtek.

Unlike Texas, which was unable to persuade the high court that the education of
illegal immigrants was a serious burden on the state, California can demonstrate
"staggering financial and societal burdens . . . an extraordinary situation
unparalleled by that of any other state," Furtek wrote.

He stressed the state's "years of recession and a steady decrease in General
Fund revenue" since 1990, a striking contrast to Wilson's recent optimistic
economic forecasts and proposal for a 15 percent tax cut.

Proposition 187, approved by 59 percent of the voters Nov. 8, bans public
education, social services and non-emergency health care for illegal immigrants.
It also requires officials who encounter suspected illegal immigrants to tell
them to obtain legal status or leave the country, and to report them to federal
immigration authorities.

San Francisco Superior Court Judge Stuart Pollak barred enforcement of the
education provisions Nov. 9, citing the 1982 Supreme Court ruling requiring
states to provide education to all residents, regardless of immigration status.
He is tentatively scheduled to hear arguments Feb. 8 on a preliminary
injunction, which would stay in effect until the case went to trial but could
also be appealed to higher courts. Furtek's papers were filed for that hearing.
In a separate case, U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer of Los Angeles issued
an injunction Dec. 14 against all other provisions of the initiative except its
ban on false immigration documents. She said parts of the measure appeared to
create a state deportation system, in violation of exclusive federal authority
over immigration, and could induce departure of many immigrants who had a right
to remain under federal law.

Wilson and other backers of Proposition 187 have said they hope it will lead the
Supreme Court to reconsider the 1982 ruling on education. Since lower courts
remain bound by that ruling, Furtek could not attack it directly, but argued
that it was not intended to cover current conditions in California.

"California schools are overcrowded and understaffed," Furtek said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 6, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON VOWS TO CONTINUE IMMIGRATION FIGHT HE ADMITS HE KNEW HOUSEKEEPER, ERRED
ON SOCIAL SECURITY TAXES

BYLINE: SCOTT THURM, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


A defiant Gov. Pete Wilson vowed Friday to continue preaching the evils of
illegal immigration, despite having hired a housekeeper in the late 1970s who
says she was in the United States illegally.

Striving to minimize the damage to his presidential aspirations, a more contrite
Wilson also admitted for the first time that he knew the housekeeper, Josefina
Klag, and erred in not ensuring that her Social Security taxes were paid.

But Wilson insisted there was no conflict between his having benefited from the
toil of an illegal immigrant and his efforts to drive undocumented immigrants
from the country.

"If those who are skulking in the shadows feeding this information . . . think
that this will in some way silence the debate on illegal immigration, they are
woefully mistaken," Wilson said at a Capitol news conference, summoning what
strength he could from a weak voice, still recovering three weeks after
vocal-cord surgery.

"I have no qualms whatever about continuing to demand reform of illegal
immigration," the governor said in his first public comments since acknowledging
Wednesday that he and his ex-wife hired Klag as a one-day-a-week housekeeper in
1978. Klag claims she was in the country illegally at the time.

The revelation is potentially very damaging to Wilson because of his attempts to
deny public services to illegal immigrants and his oft-stated wish that they
leave California. Having propelled Wilson's re-election last year, the same
themes had emerged in his all-but-announced quest for the White House.

Having acknowledged hiring Klag, some political analysts think Wilson will no
longer be able to play the illegal immigration card so easily. To critics, the
incident only adds to an impression that Wilson is running for president against
much of his own 30-year record in public life.

Friday, Wilson sought to distinguish Klag -- who now holds a work permit and
continues to work in the San Diego area -- from illegal immigrants who use
government services. He said his rhetoric had been aimed not at illegal
immigrants themselves, but at the federal government for failing to reimburse
states for the costs of educating, curing and imprisoning undocumented entrants.

And he insisted the disclosure would not harm his presidential campaign: "The
voters are far more concerned with how the federal government is failing to
control our borders today than with who was hired 17 years ago to help with the
housework."

But Wilson has not always been so careful to draw these distinctions. Several of
his television commercials last year began with grainy footage of people running
across the border while a deep-throated narrator intoned, "They keep coming."

In acknowledging that he knew Klag and had spoken with her several times, Wilson
contradicted legal adviser John Davies, who told reporters Thursday that Wilson
didn't even know his then-wife, now Betty Hosie, had hired a housekeeper. Davies
said Friday he misinterpreted Wilson's earlier comments to him.

Wilson said he and Hosie committed a "serious dereliction" by not paying Klag's
Social Security taxes. But he insisted that the unintentional failure to pay the
taxes was not a crime.

Hosie reportedly hired and paid Klag, starting at $25 a week in April 1978. But
Wilson -- a lawyer who as a legislator helped write tax laws -- added, "Where I
blame myself is for having assumed my former wife was aware of the law."

Davies estimates that Wilson and Hosie owe the federal government $3,000 in
taxes, penalties and interest. Hosie may owe another $12,000, because she
continued to employ Klag until 1992. Wilson and Hosie separated in 1981 and
divorced in 1983.

Wilson and Hosie say they never asked Klag about her immigration status. Until
1986, federal law did not require employers to ask job seekers for proof they
were in the country legally.

With Friday's news conference, Wilson hoped to begin putting the affair to rest.
But he and his advisers still don't know whether he had employed other illegal
immigrants or failed to pay Social Security taxes for other household workers.
Davies said Friday he is trying to track down as many as five people who may
have once worked for Wilson.

In addition, Klag's immigration status remains unclear. She told Wilson's
intermediaries that she was in the country illegally in 1978 and received a
"green card" in 1979. Wilson's aides have been unable to verify these claims.
The Los Angeles Times quoted government sources Friday saying Klag obtained a
green card in March 1979 based on her marriage to a U.S. citizen. The Times
reported that Klag, previously known as Josefa Delgado, married Kirk Klag in
December 1978 and separated from him three weeks later.

Another woman for whom Klag has long worked, Becky Irwin, said Friday that Klag
never talked to her about either her marriage or her green card. Irwin began
employing Klag in the late 1970s and referred Klag to then-Betty Wilson.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Pete Wilson heads to a news conference Friday with lawyer John Davies.
Wilson said his political plans won't be derailed by news of the 1978 hiring of
a woman who says she cleaned his house when she was in the country illegally.
950506 FR 22A 1
PHOTO: Wilson: "I have no qualms whatever about continuing to demand reform of
illegal immigration."
950506 FR 1A 3; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 18, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON TALKS TOUGH ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE AND JEFF GOTTLIEB, Mercury News Staff, Writers

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 835 words

DATELINE: San Diego


The immigration issue boiled over again in the California governor's race on
Saturday, as Gov. Pete Wilson scoffed at the Clinton administration's attempts
to address the issue and challenger Kathleen Brown's campaign team ripped into
Wilson, charging that he has made a bad situation worse.

In his most muscular speech on the issue thus far in the campaign, Wilson told
members of the California Republican Party that Proposition 187, which would
eliminate government services to unlawful immigrants, is "the two-by- four we
need to make them take notice in Washington . . . to accept its (the federal
government's) responsibility for illegal immigration."

Meanwhile, in the U.S. Senate race, even as Rep. Michael Huffington was stirring
up enthusiasm among hundreds of GOP delegates gathered here, Sen. Dianne
Feinstein's campaign released two acerbic TV ads labeling the congressman "a
Texas oil millionaire whom Californians just can't trust."

Later, in a meeting that Huffington had tried, unsuccessfully, to limit to nine
invited reporters, the Santa Barbara Republican responded by threatening to
attack the financial dealings of his Democratic rival and her husband,
investment banker Richard Blum.

Wilson's speech -- with its heavy emphasis on immigration -- was delivered to an
audience of appreciative listeners who view his comeback from more than 20
points down in the polls to nearly 10 points ahead as a resurrection of sorts
for their party.

As San Diego City Councilwoman Judy McCarty put it: "It's so much fun to be a
Republican again . . . we're salivating here."

Reno assisting Brown

While Wilson was speaking, Attorney General Janet Reno was in Los Angeles,
helping Brown by offering new and repackaged programs to address the issue. She
announced a pilot program to reallocate some agents from two inland checkpoints
and, as part of "Operation Gatekeeper," pledged 220 more border guards within
the next 100 days.

"They are desperately eager to apply bandages to the lacerated and hemorrhaging
credibility of the White House and the Kathleen Brown campaign," Wilson said in
his speech. But, "Anything that falls short of securing our border and providing
full reimbursement for California's costs of illegal immigration just ain't
enough."

In remarks to reporters, Wilson objected to the idea of beefing up the border
with agents made available by "cannibalizing" inland checkpoints where he said
drugs are confiscated.

And he responded to a news report in the San Diego Union-Tribune noting that in
1983 Wilson was co-author of a provision that made it more difficult for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to raid farms to check for undocumented
workers.

It remains his position, he said, that the INS should have to obtain search
warrants before searching farms for illegal immigrants. It was that requirement,
according to the Union-Tribune, that resulted in the INS giving up on farm
searches.

Following Wilson's comments to the media, Brown spokesman Steve Glazer said
Wilson was operating with an "amnesia strategy where he hopes that the voters
never can recall any of the earlier promises that he has made."

In his remarks to reporters, Huffington said he would take a position on
Proposition 187 before the election. However, he said that illegal immigrants
should not be denied health care, which is part of the initiative.

No stand on initiatives

"There are lots of initiatives, and I just haven't taken a position on them," he
said. So far, there are seven initiatives.

Huffington, who held his first press conference of the campaign, tried to limit
the reporters who attended. But when some reporters who had been invited refused
to attend unless it was opened to all journalists, Huffington's campaign finally
agreed after a 25-minute standoff.

In a novel twist, Huffington characterized his plan to cut the capital gains tax
from 28 percent to 10 percent as a boost for the middle class. He argued that
homeowners would benefit when they sell their houses.

Huffington also attacked the way legislators are influenced by lobbyists. "They
have senators, I'm sure, and congressmen on their payrolls."

Pressed to explain, Huffington said he did not mean to say that legislators are
actually on company payrolls, but that "some" who take contributions from
political action committees are unduly influenced.

Wants water for farmers

He repeated his call for less stringent environmental regulations, even though
he once was a board member of the Natural Resources Defense Council, one of the
largest environmental groups in the country. "I think there's been enough water
diverted to the fish," he said, arguing that the farmers need it instead.

The Feinstein campaign's 30-second commercials, which began running across the
state Saturday, picked up a theme the senator will use for the remainder of the
campaign, said Bill Carrick, her media adviser -- that Huffington cannot be
trusted and he is a carpetbagger from Texas.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pete Wilson and candidate for lieutenant governor Cathie Wright stand together
at a luncheon.
940918 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 10, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN MEXICO, OUTRAGE YIELDS TO BEWILDERMENT

BYLINE: ESTHER SCHRADER, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: Mexico City


After weeks of vehement protests against Proposition 187, Mexicans on Wednesday
reacted to its passage with a strange, paralyzed silence.

Apart from a mildly worded statement from Mexican President Carlos Salinas de
Gortari, government officials refused to comment on the proposal, which would
deny education and most social services to illegal immigrants in California.

"The voices of intolerance have returned," Salinas said late Tuesday, when it
was clear the ballot measure would pass. "Mexicans and many Californians have
asked what will happen to the children. Will they return to Mexico, wash
windshields in California, sell newspapers in the streets or beg?"

Salinas last week denounced the proposal as "xenophobic."

Mexican newspapers and political analysts continued their angry denunciations of
the proposal. But the marches, protests and mayhem that had been expected in the
capital, Tijuana and other border cities never materialized Wednesday.

In Mexico City it was quiet outside the U.S. Embassy, which had been besieged
throughout a weekend of outcry against the ballot measure. Tuesday, however,
about 40 masked youths ransacked a McDonald's restaurant to denounce the
initiative.

And while Mexican television and radio stations devoted time to reporting on the
ballot measure known here as "the anti-immigrant proposal," commentators seemed
in a hurry to reassure listeners that it would not take effect immediately,
rather than urging them to take to the streets.

Many Mexicans were asking the same question as news of the proposal's passage
spread. But they were asking it in soft, bewildered voices to friends and
family. The political activists and human rights leaders who had led protests in
the weeks before Tuesday's vote told journalists Wednesday they remained angry,
even though they did not organize demonstrations.

"I have a lot of relatives there, legal and illegal, and I worry for them," said
Edgar de los Santos, 21, sitting under a tree on the grounds of a Mexico City
university.

"They have been living these weeks closed inside their houses for fear of what
might happen. But they said if (Proposition 187) comes to pass they will seek
work in other (U.S.) states. There's no reason for them to come back to our
town. There is no work."

A high-level Mexican official said the incoming government of President- elect
Ernesto Zedillo is considering what aid it can give to U.S. human rights and
civil liberties groups already fighting the proposal in court.

But the official said Mexico, always touchy about U.S. meddling in its affairs,
would have to tread lightly. He said that despite threats from Mexican business
leaders to cut ties to California partners, trade is unlikely to be affected.

Three Mexican business groups contacted Wednesday had no comment on the U.S.
election results. The American Chamber of Commerce, which had assailed 187,
reported no formal complaints from the Mexican business community.

"Here I think a lot of people aren't conscious of what this could mean," said
Ines Jiminez, 36, a lawyer. "The situation in Mexico is so bad that they have
enough to worry about here. Some people don't have the energy to worry about our
country people there."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Propsition 187

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 10, 1994 Thursday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

FEARFUL AND ANGRY, PROP. 187 FOES MARCH;
BACKERS STAY OUT OF SIGHT, VOW TO PERSIST

BYLINE: MIKE CASSIDY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 796 words


The first day of California under Proposition 187 was equal parts anger,
determination and fear for those who had fought the measure.

While schoolchildren worried about being shipped to Mexico, hundreds of
protesters marched noisily through the streets of San Jose, Redwood City, Santa
Cruz, Watsonville, Hayward and cities throughout the state, occasionally
blocking traffic as they denounced the proposition as divisive, racist and
unconstitutional.

For those who pushed the proposition, which withholds public education and all
but emergency health care from undocumented immigrants, it was a day to
celebrate and to vow that the fight would continue. They did not turn out to
honk horns or wave signs but instead congratulated themselves quietly and began
thinking about ways to take their message nationwide.

"No, we don't take to the streets," said Sally Vaughn, a member of the pro-187
South Bay Citizens for Immigration Reform. "That's not us."

In San Mateo County, student protesters did take to the streets, walking for
several miles through rain. More than 600 students from Carlmont High School in
Belmont and Sequoia High in Redwood City joined others from Menlo- Atherton and
Woodside high schools. About 150 ended their march at the Hall of Justice and
Records in Redwood City.

The students were angry but peaceful. Some waved Mexican flags and chanted,
"Wilson no, estudio si" and "We want education, not discrimination." Others
marched with "No on 187" bumper stickers on their foreheads, like bandannas,
while some plastered the yellow signs and stickers on windows of police cars. "I
think we got our point across," said Marva Monje, 14, of Carlmont, who says the
proposition has divided the community.

Indeed, it was a day on which differences were underlined.

Calming a grandson

In the small East San Jose office of the local anti-187 forces, an undocumented
Mexican woman sat in a chair next to her 3-year-old grandson and explained she
would not be deterred. The 42-year-old widow, who requested anonymity, said
she'd work to overturn Proposition 187. If she is deported, she said, she will
return. No, she said through an interpreter, she is not worried about herself.

"I have spoken to my kids, and I told them not to be afraid," the woman said of
her two sons in public school. "But even today, they did not feel good about
going to school. They're afraid they could be sent back to Mexico."

The worry was a common one in local schools. Alum Rock Union Elementary School
Superintendent Pedro Perales talked of a girl who told her second-grade teacher
she was upset about having to leave her friends because of Proposition 187.

"She told her teacher, 'I don't know anybody in Mexico. Why do they want to send
me back? Why don't people like me? I never did anything,' " Perales said. "It
breaks your heart. The little ones are so confused."

Despite the fears of children, school officials made it clear Wednesday that the
education provision would not be enforced until it is sorted out in the courts.

Burden on everyone

Leaders of the local No On Proposition 187 drive stressed that point at a news
conference. And they urged those who were angered by the outcome to become
active politically and to shun violence.

While the measure is directed at illegal immigrants, the speakers said, it also
will place a burden on everyone who even looks or sounds as if he or she could
be an illegal immigrant.

"We cannot take our anger out on innocent people or ignorant people," said
Brother Jose Ojeda of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church.

The same message was carried by many who marched through the streets of cities
statewide. No arrests were reported in the Bay Area by evening despite
widespread demonstrations.

In San Jose, a crowd of about 200 mostly Hispanic students marched from Plaza de
Cesar Chavez downtown through the East Side, stopping at schools along the way
to urge other students to join them.

"We just kind of felt like we had to do something," said Veronica Vela, 21, a
student at Gavilan College in Gilroy, who marched through San Jose. "All the
people in power are white, so what we want to do is empower our people, educate
our people."

Highway 17 blocked

In Alameda and Contra Costa counties, protesters blocked major freeways. Near
Santa Cruz, at least 100 demonstrators blocked Highway 17, near Highway 1,
shutting it down for more than half an hour and backing up traffic for at least
a mile, the California Highway Patrol said.

In Watsonville, as many as 400 protesters marched to the edge of Highway 1 but
were stopped by the Highway Patrol and Watsonville police before they could
block traffic. In Oakland, hundreds of students marched through downtown,
stopping at police headquarters.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Proposition 187
Mercury News staff writers Betty Barnacle, Renee Koury, Edwin Garcia, E. Mark
Moreno and Gina Boubion contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Camila Nieves, 15, cut class to join an anti-187 protest Wednesday in front of
the state building in San Francisco.
941110 FR 17A P 1
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Nothing was going to stop these Pala Middle School students from joining an
anti-Proposition 187 march Wednesday with other students from around San Jose.
941110 FR 17A P 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 10, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEARFUL AND ANGRY, PROP. 187 FOES MARCH;
BACKERS STAY OUT OF SIGHT, VOW TO PERSIST

BYLINE: MIKE CASSIDY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 802 words


The first day of California under Proposition 187 was equal parts anger,
determination and fear for those who had fought the measure.

While schoolchildren worried about being shipped to Mexico, hundreds of
protesters marched noisily through the streets of San Jose, Redwood City, Santa
Cruz, Watsonville, Hayward and cities throughout the state, occasionally
blocking traffic as they denounced the proposition as divisive, racist and
unconstitutional.

For those who pushed the proposition, which withholds public education and all
but emergency health care from undocumented immigrants, it was a day to
celebrate and to vow that the fight would continue. They did not turn out to
honk horns or wave signs but instead congratulated themselves quietly and began
thinking about ways to take their message nationwide.

"No, we don't take to the streets," said Sally Vaughn, a member of the pro-187
South Bay Citizens for Immigration Reform. "That's not us."

Indeed, it was a day on which differences were underlined.

In the small East San Jose office of the local anti-187 forces, an undocumented
Mexican woman sat in a chair next to her 3-year-old grandson and explained that
she would not be deterred. The 42-year-old widow, who requested anonymity, said
she'd work to overturn Proposition 187. If she is deported, she said, she will
return. No, she said through an interpreter, she is not worried about herself.

"I have spoken to my kids, and I told them not to be afraid," the woman said of
her two sons in public school. "But even today, they did not feel good about
going to school. They're afraid they could be sent back to Mexico."

The worry was a common one in local schools. Alum Rock Union Elementary School
Superintendent Pedro Perales talked of a girl who told her second-grade teacher
she was upset about having to leave her friends because of Proposition 187.

"She told her teacher, 'I don't know anybody in Mexico. Why do they want to send
me back? Why don't people like me? I never did anything.' " Perales said. "It
breaks your heart. The little ones are so confused."

Despite the fears of children, school officials made it clear Wednesday that the
education provision would not be enforced until it is sorted out in the courts.

Burden on everyone

Leaders of the local No On Proposition 187 drive stressed that point at a news
conference. And they urged those who were angered by the outcome to become
active politically and to shun violence.

While the measure is directed at illegal immigrants, the speakers said, it also
will place a burden on everyone who even looks or sounds as if he or she could
be an illegal immigrant.

"We cannot take our anger out on innocent people or ignorant people," said
Brother Jose Ojeda of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church.

The same message was carried by many who marched through the streets of cities
statewide. No arrests were reported in the Bay Area by evening, despite
widespread demonstrations.

In San Jose, a crowd of about 200 mostly Hispanic students marched from Plaza de
Cesar Chavez downtown through the East Side, stopping at schools along the way
to urge other students to join them.

"We just kind of felt like we had to do something," said Veronica Vela, 21, a
student at Gavilan College in Gilroy, who marched through San Jose. "All the
people in power are white, so what we want to do is empower our people, educate
our people."

Highway 17 blocked

In Alameda and Contra Costa counties, protesters blocked major freeways. Near
Santa Cruz, at least 100 demonstrators blocked Highway 17, near Highway 1,
shutting it down for more than half an hour and backing up traffic for at least
a mile, the California Highway Patrol said.

In Watsonville, as many as 400 protesters marched to the edge of Highway 1 but
were stopped by the Highway Patrol and Watsonville police before they could
block traffic. In Oakland, hundreds of students marched through downtown,
stopping at police headquarters.

In San Mateo County, protesters walked through rain for several miles, from
Carlmont High School in Belmont to Sequoia High in Redwood City to Menlo-
Atherton High in Atherton. Their march ended at the Hall of Justice and Records
in Redwood City.

Teachers say no

In Los Angeles, about 250 students rallying downtown were joined by public
school teachers who said they would never enforce the provision of Proposition
187 that says teachers must turn undocumented students in to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"Many of our students stayed home today because they were confused," said Don
White, a history teacher at Washington Irving Middle School in Highland Park.
"Keep in mind that many of our students come from Guatemala and El Salvador,
where (their fate after) deportation is very uncertain."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Proposition 187
Mercury News staff writers Betty Barnacle, Renee Koury, Edwin Garcia, E. Mark
Moreno and Gina Boubion contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Camila Nieves, 15, cut class to join an anti-187 protest Wednesday in front of
the state building in San Francisco.
941110 FR 17A 1
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Nothing was going to stop these Pala Middle School students from joining an
anti-Proposition 187 march Wednesday with other students from around San Jose.
941110 FR 17A 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 10, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

FEARFUL AND ANGRY, PROP. 187 FOES MARCH;
BACKERS STAY OUT OF SIGHT, VOW TO PERSIST

BYLINE: MIKE CASSIDY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 799 words


The first day of California under Proposition 187 was equal parts anger,
determination and fear for those who had fought the measure.

While schoolchildren worried about being shipped to Mexico, hundreds of
protesters marched noisily through the streets of San Jose, Redwood City, Santa
Cruz, Watsonville, Hayward and cities throughout the state, occasionally
blocking traffic as they denounced the proposition as divisive, racist and
unconstitutional.

For those who pushed the proposition, which withholds public education and all
but emergency health care from undocumented immigrants, it was a day to
celebrate and to vow that the fight would continue. They did not turn out to
honk horns or wave signs but instead congratulated themselves quietly and began
thinking about ways to take their message nationwide.

'That's not us'

"No, we don't take to the streets," said Sally Vaughn, a member of the pro-187
South Bay Citizens for Immigration Reform. "That's not us."

Indeed, it was a day on which differences were underlined.

In the small East San Jose office of the local anti-187 forces, an undocumented
Mexican woman sat in a chair next to her 3-year-old grandson and explained that
she would not be deterred. The 42-year-old widow, who requested anonymity, said
she'd work to overturn Proposition 187. If she is deported, she said, she will
return. No, she said through an interpreter, she is not worried about herself.

Children worried

"I have spoken to my kids, and I told them not to be afraid," the woman said of
her two sons in public school. "But even today, they did not feel good about
going to school. They're afraid they could be sent back to Mexico."

The worry was a common one in local schools. Alum Rock Union Elementary School
Superintendent Pedro Perales talked of a girl who told her second-grade teacher
she was upset about having to leave her friends because of Proposition 187.

"She told her teacher, 'I don't know anybody in Mexico. Why do they want to send
me back? Why don't people like me? I never did anything.' " Perales said. "It
breaks your heart. The little ones are so confused."

Despite the fears of children, school officials made it clear Wednesday that the
education provision would not be enforced until it is sorted out in the courts.

Leaders of the local No On Proposition 187 drive stressed that point at a news
conference. And they urged those who were angered by the outcome to become
active politically and to shun violence.

While the measure is directed at illegal immigrants, the speakers said, it also
will place a burden on everyone who even looks or sounds as if he or she could
be an illegal immigrant.

"We cannot take our anger out on innocent people or ignorant people," said
Brother Jose Ojeda of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church.

The same message was carried by many who marched through the streets of cities
statewide. No arrests were reported in the Bay Area by evening, despite
widespread demonstrations.

In San Jose, a crowd of about 200 mostly Hispanic students marched from Plaza de
Cesar Chavez downtown through the East Side, stopping at schools along the way
to urge other students to join them.

"We just kind of felt like we had to do something," said Veronica Vela, 21, a
student at Gavilan College in Gilroy, who marched through San Jose. "All the
people in power are white, so what we want to do is empower our people, educate
our people."

In Alameda and Contra Costa counties, protesters blocked major freeways. Near
Santa Cruz, at least 100 demonstrators blocked Highway 17, near Highway 1,
shutting it down for more than half an hour and backing up traffic for at least
a mile, the California Highway Patrol said.

In Watsonville, as many as 400 protesters marched to the edge of Highway 1 but
were stopped by the Highway Patrol and Watsonville police before they could
block traffic. In Oakland, hundreds of students marched through downtown,
stopping at police headquarters.

In San Mateo County, protesters walked through rain for several miles, from
Carlmont High School in Belmont to Sequoia High in Redwood City to Menlo-
Atherton High in Atherton. Their march ended at the Hall of Justice and Records
in Redwood City.

In Los Angeles, about 250 students rallying downtown were joined by public
school teachers who said they would never enforce the provision of Proposition
187 that says teachers must turn undocumented students in to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"Many of our students stayed home today because they were confused," said Don
White, a history teacher at Washington Irving Middle School in Highland Park.
"Keep in mind that many of our students come from Guatemala and El Salvador,
where (their fate after) deportation is very uncertain."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Proposition 187
Mercury News staff writers Betty Barnacle, Renee Koury, Edwin Garcia, E. Mark
Moreno and Gina Boubion contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Students march toward downtown Concord Wednesday during a 3 1, 2-hour non-
violent protest against the passage of Prop. 187.
941110 FR 17A PF 3
PHOTOS 2: Same photos ran in Morning Final edition story with same headline

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              November 4, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL STREET EDITION

NANNY QUESTION ENVELOPS FEINSTEIN CONFUSION: SHE DISPUTES A REPORT ABOUT HER
EX-HOUSEKEEPER'S LEGAL STATUS.

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN AND JEFF GOTTLIEB,, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


The furor over hiring illegal immigrants that has undermined her opponent's
campaign threatened Sen. Dianne Feinstein on Thursday, as she faced questions
raised by a disputed account that her former housekeeper was an illegal worker
from Guatemala.

The report came a week after her Republican challenger, Rep. Michael Huffington,
admitted that he had broken the law by employing an illegal immigrant as a nanny
for four years. At that time, Huffington charged that Feinstein had done the
same thing -- which she adamantly denied.

It remained unclear Thursday whether Feinstein's housekeeper had worked
illegally.

An account placed on the Internet by the San Francisco Free Press, the newspaper
put out by strikers at the Chronicle and Examiner, said Feinstein employed a
woman in the early 1980s who did not have a work permit.

But late Thursday, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Laguna Niguel said the agency had released records about the wrong woman. INS
officials in Washington were running computer checks late Thursday to determine
the immigration status of the woman Feinstein employed.

But the confusion did not stop the Huffington campaign from trying to capitalize
on the disclosure with a new ad that called Feinstein a liar.

Huffington and his campaign aides also accused the senator of trying to cover up
the scandal. But they offered inconclusive proof, citing only bureaucratic
delays in getting answers to their questions.

In an angry appearance in Los Angeles on Thursday, Huffington called Feinstein
"a liar" and "a hypocrite."

"She has purposefully and blatantly attempted to mislead (reporters) and the
people of this great state," he continued. "She is unworthy to serve in the U.S.
Senate."

When reporters pressed him that Feinstein may not have broken the law as he did,
and that she does not support Proposition 187, Huffington said it didn't matter.

"We think its all a coverup," said Ed Rollins, a Huffington campaign consultant.

Feinstein dismissed the charges as "sheer nonsense."

"I have never hired anyone that was undocumented or here without work
authority," she said. "And I stand by that statement."

Before the INS revealed its mistake, Feinstein said Thursday that she had seen
work papers for the housekeeper, whom she employed in the early 1980s.

There was no law then against employing undocumented workers and employers were
not required to check their employees' immigration status. Employers were
required to pay Social Security taxes, however, which Feinstein's campaign
manager Kam Kuwata said she did.

"She had work authority and I saw that and I hired her for two years and that
was the extent of it," Feinstein said. "So I have done nothing that was
illegal."

She strived to turn the spotlight back onto Huffington, noting that he has
admitted to knowingly employing an illegal immigrant even though he supports
Proposition 187, which would bar state services to illegal immigrants.

"I think it's a totally different issue with Michael Huffington. He supports 187
and has been hypocritical," Feinstein said at a Santa Monica news conference.

At its news conference Thursday, the Huffington campaign produced a Southern
California immigration lawyer who said he attended a conference once at which a
top Labor Department official said Feinstein was seeking a work permit for her
maid.

Feinstein denied seeking help from the Labor Department.

Huffington workers also led reporters to Tony Hipchen, a painter who worked for
Feinstein when she was mayor of San Francisco. Hipchen said Feinstein told him
how her housekeeper returned to Guatemala because of a death in the family and
couldn't get back in because of problems with her immigration papers.

He said Feinstein told him she "was doing everything she could to get her back
into the country so she could pick up her son," who was staying with the mayor.
Feinstein said as much in her comments to reporters on Thursday.

"I wrote a letter on her behalf, because I knew her to be of good character of
good reputation," Feinstein said. "Her son, born in this country, was here, and
I felt that a mother and a son ought to be reunified."

Kam Kuwata, Feinstein's campaign director, said he was gathering records on the
housekeeper's case but had not released them because they were incomplete. He
said the woman did have a Social Security number.

The woman worked for Feinstein from 1980 to 1982, well before the Immigration
and Control Act of 1986. At that time, it was easy, even for illegal immigrants,
to obtain Social Security numbers.

"It was not unusual in the early 1980s to fly in on a tourist visa, go down to
the Social Security office and two weeks later get a Social Security card," said
Jim Mayock, a San Francisco immigration lawyer.

Feinstein has not said what type of proof the woman offered to show that she was
legally entitled to work in this country. But she said the woman worked for the
Guatemalan Consulate in Los Angeles before she worked as Feinstein's maid.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Barry Witt and Mercury News wire services
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
During a campaign stop in San Diego, Sen. Dianne Feinstein displays a mock album
cover titled "The Great Pretenders," which lampoons Republicans, including her
opponent, Michael Huffington.
941104 FR 21A FS
PHOTO: Feinstein employed the woman for two years in the early 1980s.
941104 FR 1A FS 1; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 4, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT QUESTION ENVELOPS FEINSTEIN CONFUSION: INS MAY HAVE IDENTIFIED THE
WRONG WOMAN AS AN ILLEGAL WORKER.

BYLINE: Laura Kurtzman, and Jeff Gottlieb, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 828 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


The furor over hiring illegal immigrants that has undermined her opponent's
campaign threatened Sen. Dianne Feinstein on Thursday, as she faced questions
raised by a disputed account that her former housekeeper was an illegal worker
from Guatemala.

The report came a week after her Republican challenger, Rep. Michael Huffington,
admitted that he had broken the law by employing an illegal immigrant as a nanny
for four years. At that time, Huffington charged that Feinstein had done the
same thing -- which she adamantly denied.

It remained unclear Thursday whether Feinstein's housekeeper had worked
illegally.

An account placed on the Internet by the San Francisco Free Press, the newspaper
put out by strikers at the Chronicle and Examiner, said Feinstein employed a
woman in the early 1980s who did not have a work permit.

But late Thursday, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Laguna Niguel said the agency had released records about the wrong woman. INS
officials in Washington were running computer checks late Thursday to determine
the immigration status of the woman Feinstein employed.

But the confusion did not stop the Huffington campaign from trying to capitalize
on the disclosure with a new ad that called Feinstein a liar.

Huffington and his campaign aides also accused the senator of trying to cover up
the scandal. But they offered inconclusive proof, citing only bureaucratic
delays in getting answers to their questions.

In an angry appearance in Los Angeles on Thursday, Huffington called Feinstein
"a liar" and "a hypocrite."

"She has purposefully and blatantly attempted to mislead (reporters) and the
people of this great state," he continued. "She is unworthy to serve in the U.S.
Senate."

Feinstein dismissed the charges as "sheer nonsense."

"I have never hired anyone that was undocumented or here without work
authority," she said. "And I stand by that statement."

When reporters pressed him that Feinstein may not have broken the law as he did,
and that she does not support Proposition 187, Huffington said it didn't matter.

Before the INS revealed its mistake, Feinstein said Thursday that she had seen
work papers for the housekeeper, whom she employed in the early 1980s.

There was no law then against employing undocumented workers and employers were
not required to check their employees' immigration status. Employers were
required to pay Social Security taxes, however, which Feinstein's campaign
manager Kam Kuwata said she did.

"She had work authority and I saw that and I hired her for two years and that
was the extent of it," Feinstein said. "So I have done nothing that was
illegal."

She tried to turn the spotlight back onto Huffington, noting that he has
admitted to knowingly employing an illegal immigrant even though he supports
Proposition 187, which would bar state services to illegal immigrants.

"I think it's a totally different issue with Michael Huffington. He supports 187
and has been hypocritical," Feinstein said at a Santa Monica news conference.

At its press event Thursday, the Huffington campaign produced a Southern
California immigration lawyer who said he attended a conference once at which a
top Labor Department official said Feinstein was seeking a work permit for her
maid.

Feinstein denied seeking help from the Labor Department.

Huffington workers also led reporters to Tony Hipchen, a painter who worked for
Feinstein when she was mayor of San Francisco. Hipchen said Feinstein told him
how her housekeeper returned to Guatemala because of a death in the family and
couldn't get back in because of problems with her immigration papers.

He said Feinstein told him she "was doing everything she could to get her back
into the country so she could pick up her son," who was staying with the mayor.
Feinstein said as much in her comments to reporters on Thursday.

"I wrote a letter on her behalf, because I knew her to be of good character of
good reputation," Feinstein said. "Her son, born in this country was here, and I
felt that a mother and a son ought to be reunified."

Kam Kuwata, Feinstein's campaign director, said he was gathering records on the
housekeeper's case but had not released them because they were incomplete. He
said the woman did have a Social Security number.

The woman worked for Feinstein from 1980 to 1982, well before the Immigration
and Control Act of 1986. At that time, it was easy for illegal immigrants to
obtain Social Security numbers.

"It was not unusual in the early 1980s to fly in on a tourist visa, go down to
the Social Security office and two weeks later get a Social Security card," said
Jim Mayock, a San Francisco immigration lawyer.

Feinstein has not said what type of proof the woman offered to show that she was
legally entitled to work in this country. But she said the woman worked for the
Guatemalan Consulate in Los Angeles before she worked as Feinstein's maid.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
During a campaign stop in San Diego, Sen. Dianne Feinstein displays a mock album
cover titled "The Great Pretenders," which lampoons Republicans, including her
opponent, Michael Huffington.
941104 FR 21A
PHOTO: Feinstein employed the woman for two years in the early 1980s.
941104 FR 1A 1; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 28, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW PROP. 187 COULD RESTORE STATES' RIGHTS

BYLINE: GEORGE WILL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 925 words


JUSTICE William Brennan, asked if he regretted any decision he had rendered
during his 34 years on the Supreme Court, replied, "Hell no, I never thought
that I was wrong." And he always thought he had a right to impose social
policies he considered right. Today's national debate about California's
Proposition 187, which would deny free public education and some other non-
emergency public services to illegal immigrants, arises from damage done by
Brennan's, and the court's, hubris.

In 1982, the court narrowly (5-4) overturned a Texas statute denying free public
education to illegal immigrants. The majority opinion, written by Brennan and
joined by Thurgood Marshall, Lewis Powell, Harry Blackmun and John Paul Stevens,
extended the 14th Amendment's guarantee of "equal protection of the laws" to
people seeking entitlements from a state in which their presence was illegal.

Brennan argued that Texas' statute was unfair because illegal immigrant minors
are not responsible for where they are, that the law was bad social policy
because it might produce an underclass, and that therefore the law was
unconstitutional. This is the familiar non sequitur by which imperial judges
turn courts into legislatures: Whatever the judges deem unfair or unwise must be
unconstitutional.

Chief Justice Warren Burger, dissenting and joined by Byron White, William
Rehnquist and Sandra Day O'Connor, noted that "the court makes no attempt to
disguise the fact that it is acting to make up for Congress' lack of 'effective
leadership' " regarding immigration. The court, he said, was yet again
attempting "speedy and wholesale formulation of 'remedies' for the failures --
or simply the laggard pace -- of the political processes of our system of
government."

Brennan did acknowledge that "courts must be attentive to congressional policy .
. . (which) might well affect the state's prerogatives to afford differential
treatment to a particular class of aliens." But he was inattentive. By 1982
Congress had made its thinking clear through laws barring illegal immigrants
from Supplemental Security Income and Aid to Families with Dependent Children.
In 1986, Congress did the same regarding non-emergency Medicaid services.

In 1990, Congress created "Temporary Protected Status" for legal or illegal
immigrants unable to return home because of circumstances such as civil
disorder. Congress, doing something like what Proposition 187 would do, said
people with this status are ineligible for most federal benefits. And this year,
in providing disaster relief for California, Congress excluded illegal
immigrants from almost all benefits.

The 1982 decision was part of a pattern of judicial usurpations of state and
local responsibilities. These usurpations have involved courts supplanting
democratic institutions in formulating policies concerning pornography, capital
punishment, administration of prisons and mental health facilities and public
housing, abortion, school financing, Christmas displays and many other matters.
Yet critics of Proposition 187, which is designed to force the Supreme Court to
reconsider its 1982 usurpation regarding policy toward illegal immigrants, seem
scandalized that Californians are trying to reclaim a right of
self-determination.

Critics who denounce Proposition 187 as "immigrant bashing" miss a point that
evidently is not missed by the approximately 50 percent of California's
Hispanics who support it: Proposition 187 concerns not what national immigration
policy should be, but what state policy should be regarding violators of
whatever the national law is.

Critics of Proposition 187 say, correctly, that government by initiative
undermines representative government, under which the people do not decide
issues, they decide who shall decide. However, many critics of Proposition 187
are unoffended by another subvention of representative government, judicial
policy-making. There probably would be no Proposition 187 if elected officials,
in Washington and Sacramento, had not been corrupted by the culture of judicial
activism and been delighted, as the political class often is, to allow a court
to take custody of an inconvenient problem.

When Brennan discovered a new sweep for the 14th Amendment, the amendment was
114 years old. When it was ratified, and for many decades thereafter, the nation
had essentially open borders. What the nation did not have was a welfare state,
the operation of which becomes particularly problematic when courts blithely
legislate policies that expand entitlements to public resources that are finite.

Principles of federalism and popular government combine to justify Californians'
right to decide how to allocate their increasingly scarce resources.
Nevertheless, critics say Proposition 187 is unconstitutional. Proponents say:
Perhaps, but perhaps only until the Supreme Court is forced to rethink its 1982
ruling that removed an important policy from the purview of state government.

Only one of the five majority justices from 1982, Stevens, remains. Two of the
four dissenters, Rehnquist and O'Connor remain. If joined by Clarence Thomas,
Antonin Scalia and one other, 1982's judicial fiat will be overturned and the
issue restored to popular sovereignty.

"The justices," wrote Brennan of his colleagues, "are certainly aware that we
are not final because we are infallible; we know that we are infallible because
we are final." By passing Proposition 187, Californians can have a say about
whose voices are final in a democracy.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
George Will is a Washington Post columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: JOHN MACDONALD
941028 ED 11B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 30, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LOSING CONTROL OF AMERICA

BYLINE: PATRICK J. BUCHANAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 540 words


Proposition 187 "is an outrage. It is unconstitutional. It is nativist. It is
racist."

-- Al Hunt, Capital Gang, CNN

THAT OUTBURST by my columnist colleague, about California's Proposition 187 --
which would cut off medical and educational benefits to illegal aliens --
suggests that this savage quarrel is about more than just money. Indeed, the
roots of this dispute over Proposition 187 are grounded in the warring ideas
that we Americans hold about the deepest, most divisive issues of our time:
ethnicity, nation, culture.

What do we want the America of the years 2000, 2020 and 2050 to be like? Do we
have the right to shape the character of the country our grandchildren will live
in? Or is that to be decided by whoever, outside America, decides to come here?
By 2050, we are told by the chancellor of the University of California at
Berkeley, Chang Lin-Tin, "the majority of Americans will trace their roots to
Latin America, Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Pacific Islands."

Now, any man or woman, of any nation or ancestry, can come here -- and become a
good American. We know that from our history. But by my arithmetic, the
chancellor is saying that Hispanics, Asians and Africans will increase their
present number of 65 million by at least 100 million in 60 years, a population
growth larger than all of Mexico today.

What will that mean for America? Well, South Texas and Southern California will
be almost exclusively Hispanic. Each will have tens of millions of people whose
linguistic, historic and cultural roots are in Mexico. Like eastern Ukraine,
where 10 million Russian-speaking "Ukrainians" now look impatiently to Moscow,
not Kiev, as their cultural capital, America could see, in a decade, demands for
Quebec-like status for Southern California. Already there is a rumbling among
militants for outright secession. A sea of Mexican flags was prominent in that
Los Angeles rally against Proposition 187, and Mexican officials are openly
urging their kinsmen in California to vote it down.

If no cutoff is imposed on social benefits for those who breach our borders, and
break our laws, the message will go out to a desperate world: America is wide
open. All you need to do is get there, and get in.

Ethnic militancy and solidarity are on the rise in the United States. The old
institutions of assimilation are not doing their work as they once did. The
melting pot is in need of repair. On campuses we hear demands for separate
dorms, eating rooms and clubs by black, white, Hispanic and Asian students. If
this is where the campus is headed, where are our cities going?

If America is to survive as "one nation, one people," we need to call a "time
out" on immigration, to assimilate the tens of millions who have lately arrived.
We need to get to know one another, to live together, to learn together
America's language, history, culture and traditions of tolerance, to become a
new national family, before we add 100 million more. And we need to bring down
the curtain on this idea of hyphenated- Americanism.

If we lack the courage to decide what our country will look like in 2050, others
will decide for us, not all of whom share our love of the America that seems to
be fading away.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Patrick J. Buchanan is a nationally syndicated columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 4, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEMOCRATS HEADED FOR STATE SWEEP;
IN YOUTH VOTE

BYLINE: BRAD KAVA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 265 words


If California parents follow the lead of their children, Democrat Kathleen Brown
will be governor, Democrat Dianne Feinstein will be senator, a proposal to cut
out social services for illegal immigrants will be defeated and so will a new
set of smoking regulations.

These were the initial results of a statewide student mock election conducted
Thursday. With about a quarter of the California youth vote in, Brown was well
ahead of Republican Pete Wilson and Feinstein barely led Republican Michael
Huffington.

Propositions 186, 187 and 188 covering health care, immigration and smoking,
were headed to defeat while Proposition 184, the "three strikes, you're out"
initiative was winning by a 2-1 ratio.

The vote, conducted at 1,748 schools statewide, polled students from third grade
through high school. It was sponsored in about 100 South Bay schools by the
League of Women Voters, the San Jose Mercury News, an organization called
American Happenings and the Secretary of State's office.

"This is to turn the sense of powerlessness that keeps young people and their
parents from going to the polls to a sense of the power of participation," said
one of the national organizers, Gloria Kirshner.

National results, after about one million votes were counted, had Republicans
winning control of the House of Representatives, Democrats winning more
governors' seats and Senate races too close to call.

Last time the mock election was held, 5 million students participated.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

National mock election results are available by calling (602) 742-9943.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 8, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOCTORS CALL PROP. 187 UNETHICAL, RISKY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 140 words


California's Proposition 187 was condemned Tuesday in Honolulu by the American
Medical Association at the group's semiannual meeting. The policy board voted to
oppose any federal requirements that doctors determine the immigration status of
their patients before treating them.

The proposition, which was overwhelmingly approved by state voters Nov. 8,
denies all state benefits except emergency medical care to illegal immigrants
and requires government workers to report suspected illegal entrants.

Dr. Lonnie Bristow, the AMA's president-elect, said the California measure, on
hold under a judge's order, poses "a breach of physician ethics and patient
confidentiality."

The proposition poses a substantial health risk to California residents by
denying treatment for communicable diseases, the AMA said in its statement.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     December 9, 1994 Friday STREET EDITION

SUMMIT TARGET: PROP. 187 LATIN ANGER: PRESIDENT CLINTON'S AGENDA STUMBLES ON
BACKLASH AGAINST CALIFORNIA LAW.

BYLINE: ANDREW SELSKY, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: Miami


President Clinton is convening the Summit of the Americas with an eye toward
moving the region toward free trade, but blunt-talking Latin American leaders
may veer the summit from its choreographed script.

The summit -- the first such gathering of hemispheric leaders in nearly 30 years
-- opens this evening with Clinton's formal greeting and a ceremonial dinner.
The White House said Clinton would outline in a midday speech his plan for
reducing trade barriers and achieving regional economic growth.

With a draft agreement already prepared for signing by leaders of the 34 summit
nations, it would appear the three-day event was already signed, sealed and
delivered.

However, no sooner had Guatemalan President Ramiro De Leon Carpio stepped off
his plane under Miami's balmy, sunny skies Thursday than he blasted California's
Proposition 187 as "a flagrant and massive violation of human rights, especially
for children."

Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo reportedly plans to try to get summit
presidents to repudiate the law recently approved by California voters that
denies education and non-emergency health services to illegal aliens

Argentine President Carlos Menem said he planned to put Cuba on the agenda, an
issue Washington has sought to avoid. Cuba is the only country in the Americas
not invited to the summit.

Central American nations are bent on forcing into the summit their wish for the
United States to give special treatment to exports from 24 poor Caribbean and
Central American countries.

President Alberto Fujimori of Peru said he expects the summit to have results.

"We cannot continue to talk and talk," he said in Miami. One of his goals:
Gaining a commitment from the United States to give more economic aid to Latin
America.

"What we have received so far is ridiculous," Fujimori said.

Clinton has worked hard to promote free trade, trying to convince Americans that
they, and workers in other countries, will ultimately benefit if tariffs are
eliminated and their products sold without barriers.

He touched on the theme upon arrival in Miami Thursday night.

"Every country in the world . . . is fighting a battle within itself between
hope and fear, between believing in the best in its potential or walking away
from the challenge," he said.

At the summit, the leaders are expected to commit their nations to conclude
negotiations by 2005 on an Americas Free Trade Arrangement. That's an earlier
timetable than the recent agreement by Asia-Pacific partners to create free
trade by 2020.

Clinton administration projections suggest the United States stands to gain an
increase of 2.5 million jobs in a free trade zone in the Americas.

"America cannot and will not succeed . . . until we have more folks buying what
we sell," Clinton said in Washington earlier Thursday.

Also at the summit, Clinton and the presidents of Mexico and Canada are expected
to announce they are prepared to negotiate with Chile over joining the North
American Free Trade Agreement. NAFTA lowered trade barriers between the United
States, Mexico and Canada this year.

The summit leaders will also seek efforts to curb drug trafficking and money
laundering, protect the environment and find ways to guarantee education and
health services.

The White House is billing the summit as the capstone of a successful U.S. trade
liberalization effort that saw congressional passage of NAFTA last year,
followed by the Asia-Pacific trade conference last month and congressional
approval this month of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, left, joins the cheering section of Florida
Gov. Lawton Chiles and his wife, Anne, at a ceremony hosted by the president to
acknowledge the Summit of the Americas on Thursday. President Clinton and Vice
President Al Gore are both in Miami to host the summit.
941209 FR 1A PS 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 3, 1995 Wednesday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

INS ARRESTS 16 DAY LABORERS NEW LAW: AT THE TIME, A CIVIL RIGHTS GROUP WAS
PROTESTING IN SAN MATEO.

BYLINE: JOHN WOOLFOLK, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 572 words


Immigration officers Tuesday arrested 16 day laborers seeking jobs at a downtown
San Mateo street corner -- just blocks away from where a civil rights group
staged a protest against a new city law that targets the workers.

The 8:15 a.m. raid near the intersection of Third Avenue and Eldorado Street
lasted more than an hour and was aimed at those who hire undocumented workers,
said Thomas Schiltgen, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in San Francisco.

No employers, however, were cited in the operation, Schiltgen said. The INS is
investigating some employers, he said, but he would not say how many.

The raid outraged a Berkeley civil-rights group that had gathered at the nearby
San Mateo Municipal Court less than an hour before to protest a new city law
aimed at keeping the day workers away.

"It's just terrible repression on the part of the police and the INS," said
Joyce Schon, spokeswoman for Movement for an Immigrant Workers' Union Without
Borders.

The group had marched to City Hall the night before to speak against the San
Mateo law, which makes it illegal to seek work from a vehicle. The group
returned Tuesday to offer help to workers who had been cited, but left shortly
after learning that hearings on the first cases were not scheduled for another
week.

Those arrested were being held in San Francisco pending a hearing before an
immigration judge, Schiltgen said. Those with no criminal records will be asked
to leave the country on their own, he said. Those with criminal histories or who
contest the charges face formal deportation proceedings.

Three San Mateo police officers were dispatched to the raid to prevent traffic
problems that could arise from workers fleeing authorities, said police Capt.
Chuck Johnson. But the officers did not assist in the arrests, he said.

"We wanted to make sure people didn't run into traffic because those are major
thoroughfares," Johnson said.

The sweep was a response to numerous complaints by residents and business owners
near the area, where the mostly Hispanic workers have gathered for years,
Schiltgen said. The operation involved undercover work and surveillance of the
area, he said.

The INS had conducted sweeps in San Mateo last fall at the city's request. But
Councilman Jerry Hill said the city had not asked for Tuesday's operation.

Tuesday's events were part of an ongoing imbroglio over San Mateo's day laborers
that has frustrated residents, city officials and civil libertarians for years.
Residents and business owners near the corner have complained that the workers
loiter, litter and intimidate passersby.

But San Mateo's tough response in calling for last year's immigration sweeps and
enacting the work-solicitation law have outraged immigrant rights groups who say
the city has gone too far. Protests by the Berkeley group have cost the city
thousands of dollars in added police enforcement, Hill said.

Meanwhile, despite more than 40 citations under the new city law, many,
including Mayor Claire Mack, have expressed disappointment with its results.

Hill said he now hopes the private groups will work to establish a "hiring hall"
like ones in San Jose and San Francisco that provide a better place for the
workers to gather. As mayor last year, he did not want the city to pursue such a
plan out of concern that it would appear to endorse the hiring of undocumented
workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 12, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIME FOR STATE TO PUT UP THE NO-VACANCY SIGN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6F

LENGTH: 253 words


Leon Panetta's article on immigration ("Don't expect bailout to fill 'immigrant
gap,' " Commentary, June 7) should make Californians want to scream for
immigration reform.

Some examples: Panetta never answers or even hints at the big question. How can
individual states be forced to pay enormous sums to finance federal immigration
policy? California has 30 million people. Our schools are going broke. We have
terrible problems with health care, housing and water. We have a
multibillion-dollar debt. Does Panetta really believe it's fair that California
is being slammed by 450,000 new immigrants yearly?

Panetta states: "We shouldn't tolerate people immigrating illegally." If
citizens shouldn't tolerate illegal immigration, then why shouldn't Californians
be furious at being forced by the feds to spend billions on government services
for illegal immigrants?

Panetta implies that lottery tickets purchased by illegal immigrants should be
credited against what California spends on them.

Is he joking? Even if every penny of a lottery ticket went directly to
education, the average immigrant family in California (four children) would have
to buy 55 tickets daily for 13 years to reimburse taxpayers for what they
receive in educational benefits.

Tell your representatives it's time for America to get out of the immigration
business. California has neither the wealth nor the natural resources to absorb
38,000 new immigrants every month.

It's time to shut the door.

-- Bruce Mathias

Aptos

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING:T. BRIAN KELLY
940612 ED 6F

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 16, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

SENATORS WARN OF IMMIGRATION BACKLASH

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: Washington


Warning of a backlash against legal immigrants, several senators are pushing
legislation designed to stop the flow of undocumented workers and speed up
deportation of those convicted of crimes.

At a hearing Wednesday by the Senate Judiciary Committee, the lawmakers cited
figures that one-quarter of the federal prison population is made up of
immigrants, and that 11,000 convicted felons in 1992 failed to show up for
deportation hearings.

If the illegal immigration problem is ignored, said Sen. Alan Simpson, R- Wyo.,
"it could lead to true anti-immigrant sentiments."

"If we fail to act, it's only going to escalate ill will toward all aliens,"
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., agreed.

Attorney General Janet Reno promised "we will gain control of our border." But
she told the hearing that the illegal-immigrant population, estimated at 3.8
million, is increasing by about 300,000 annually.

Among other steps being taken by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Reno said, are an increase of 1,000 agents to the current Border Patrol strength
of 4,000 and a goal to double the deportations of criminals, which reached
22,000 in fiscal 1993.

She said $300 million is being sought in next year's budget to beef up border
control, deport criminal immigrants and reform the asylum process.

The administration also is seeking $350 million to help states cover the expense
of imprisoning immigrants. Several states, including Florida and California,
have sued the federal government to get back some of the billions of dollars
they say they spend on welfare, education, health care and incarceration of
immigrants.

Several senators are promoting legislation to slow the flow of illegal
immigrants.

Feinstein introduced a bill Wednesday that would increase the Border Patrol by
2,100 agents over three years, create a counterfeit-proof identity card for
immigrants working in this country, ban welfare benefits for immigrants who are
not legal permanent residents and double the prison term for smuggling illegal
immigrants to 10 years.

Other immigration bills being considered by the Judiciary Committee:

* By Sen. William Roth, R-Del., would streamline the deportation process and
provide for deporting any alien who commits a felony. Last year only 4 percent
of criminal immigrants were deported, he said.

* By Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., would require the federal government to accept
responsibility for criminal immigrants either by reimbursing states or putting
the immigrants in federal prisons.

* By Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., would cut legal immigration from the current 1
million people a year to 325,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sen. Dianne Feinstein discussed immigration legislation Wednesday.
940616 FR 21A PF 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 18, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF CALLS FOR CHANGES MORE GUARDS, BRIGHTER LIGHTS ON THE MEXICAN BORDER
COULD REDUCE ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION, SHE TELLS LAWYERS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Brighter lights along crucial U.S. border areas and 400 more guards in San Diego
and El Paso, Texas, could help stop illegal immigration to the United States,
the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service told a legal
conference Friday.

"We need to reform the asylum system. The current system does not work," Doris
Meissner said in a speech at the American Immigration Lawyers Association annual
meeting.

Each year about 300,000 people enter the United States illegally, according to
INS figures. Meissner's appointment by the Clinton administration marked a
concerted effort to streamline a system plagued by social and legal pitfalls.
Additional funding to improve the immigration system is being reviewed by
Congress. A proposed $327 million increase would add agents, improve lighting
along key U.S. border areas and emphasize deterrence overseas, Meissner said.
With more equipment, technology and money, Meissner hopes to ensure Americans
that U.S. borders would block illegal immigrants.

Meissner cited San Diego and El Paso as areas where entry must be prevented.
"We're simply waiting for the (congressional) appropriation. The personnel have
already been selected," said Meissner.

"This starts with a concentration on the Southwest border, and with preventing
illegal entry in the first place," Meissner said. "The Southwest border part of
our plan is an effort at doing our work much more intelligently."

Meissner also said she was concerned with improving the naturalization process
for legal immigrants.

"One year from now we would be able to receive electronic filings," said
Meissner, receiving a strong round of applause from the lawyers.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 2, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILLIAM TAIT REPORTEDLY MADE FROM $300,000 TO $1 MILLION FROM HIS SCHEME OF
SELLING GREEN CARDS TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS. IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL ACCUSED OF GREEN
CARD FRAUD

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A top immigration official was in federal custody in Texas on Friday charged
with making up to $1 million by selling green cards to illegal immigrants in the
San Francisco area.

William Malcolm Tait, 45, was arrested by the U.S. Department of Justice
Inspector General's office, according to Anthony Odom, chief deputy U.S. Marshal
in Dallas.

Tait was deputy assistant district director in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in San Francisco, but had been on temporary
assignment in Dallas for the past month.

Philip Waters, who heads the INS office in San Francisco, said the arrest caught
him by surprise.

"It was totally out of the blue," said Waters.

The inspector general's office has refused to discuss the case with San
Francisco INS officials, said Waters.

"I haven't been given anything on it," he said. "They're keeping us in the dark.
I don't think they want us to know."

Tait was arrested Thursday and was being held at the Mansfield Law Enforcement
Center just outside Dallas pending his removal to the Northern District of
California, said Odom.

The San Francisco Examiner reported Friday that Justice Department investigators
believe Tait made from $300,000 to $1 million in the scheme.

Starting in 1983, he allegedly helped one San Francisco-area man obtain 15 cards
for sale by bypassing normal INS controls. That man is now cooperating with
authorities, the Examiner reported.

Tait's current position did not give him direct control over the issuance of
residency visas, but he did have such control previously in his career, said
Waters.

Tait was well thought of both in the local office and Washington, said Waters.
It was the Washington INS office that asked him to go to Texas.

"He's always been doing a good job -- that's why headquarters was using him for
temporary assignment," said Waters.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 13, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DON'T ENCOURAGE LAWBREAKERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 726 words


The suggestion that we legalize all the illegal immigrants misses the point that
these people are intentionally breaking our liberal immigration laws, which
allowed some 900,000 in last year.

There are millions who would give anything for the privilege of becoming
American citizens. How can we in good conscience give precedence, much less any
serious consideration, to lawbreakers, many of whom don't want citizenship but
simply better economic conditions?

We had the immigration amnesty of 1986 that was supposed to solve the problem by
allowing those here for some time to apply for legal residence and penalizing
employers who would hire illegals after that time. This was a farce. Employers
cannot determine who is here illegally because we are flooded with false
documents. In fact, fraud in applying for amnesty was so widespread that I
understand that four times the numbers of actual farmworkers in the U.S. applied
for amnesty as such.

The recent El Paso Immigration and Naturalization Service blockade, which cut
illegal entrance through that area appreciably (plus El Paso crime), proves it
can be done. We have thousands of idle Army troops in Texas who could augment
INS agents. A visual deterrent, plus a national ID card is the only answer. And
yes, deportation.

Either that, or accept Mexican irredentism, future race riots or steady
dissolution of faith and respect for our government, already well on its way.
Whatever ensues, it bodes ill. Time is short.

-- Maurice E. Connor

Aptos

* Yuriko Yamasaki implies that the correct way to deal with illegal immigration
is to legalize such immigrants ("Give illegals a chance to prove themselves,"
Letters, Sept. 7).

What about all the people who chose to follow the laws of the land and immigrate
legally? What sort of message would this send them? "Illegal" means that the
people who are following this path to immigration have broken the laws of the
United States.

As much as I sympathize with the immigrants, I feel rewarding such action is
foolish. Thousands of illegal aliens were legalized in 1986. It hasn't solved
the problem. It has probably made it worse.

If anyone deserves consideration, it is the legal immigrants who have chosen to
follow the law, who in many cases have been separated from their spouses and
children. Many see their children grow up only by watching videos of them.

My own immigration history is a case in point. I have been going through
employment based immigration (legally) for the last four years and have suffered
through strict and unreasonable laws and a painful certification process.

For example, I have been through three layoffs and have had to start the whole
process from square one each time in spite of being continuously employed all
the time and paying vast amounts of taxes each year.

Now with very little time left on my temporary visa, I may never make it.

To make things worse for legal immigrants, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the U.S. Department of Labor have been clamping down very hard on
legal immigration in deference to the current anti-immigrant political climate.
I see no any reason for legalizing illegal immigrants.

-- Ashok Srinivasan

Mountain View

* The Aug. 31 article "Police chief, D.A. hit Prop. 187" made me wonder if I
would be better off not being an American citizen.

I am one of many Californians considered members of the middle class. I work
full time, but live paycheck to paycheck and barely get by. I have two medical
conditions, one of which could be potentially life-threatening, but I don't have
health insurance and can't afford to get it. I can't get Medicare or Medicaid
because I make too much money and I own a mobile home. It doesn't matter that
purchasing this mobile home is cheaper than paying rent.

At the same time, through no choice of my own, my taxes pay for services for
illegal immigrants; services I myself, an American citizen, am not eligible for;
services the state claims must be cut in an effort to balance the budget.

Should I be upset that Gov. Pete Wilson wants to make these illegal immigrants
ineligible for social services, public education and health care? I think not.
Would I get the same treatment if I emigrate to Mexico or Canada, or anywhere
else, illegally? Again, I think not.

-- Steven L. Hair

Santa Clara

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARBARA CUMMINGS -- LOS ANGELES TIMES
940913 ED 6B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 30, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. PANEL CALLS FOR LIMITING AID TO ILLEGALS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: Washington


A federal commission on American immigration policy recommended today that
illegal immigrants should not receive public-funded aid except in emergencies
and that states should receive some financial aid to offset some of their costs
in accommodating them.

"Illegal aliens have no right to be in this country," said former Rep. Barbara
Jordan, who headed the commission. "They are not part of our social community.
There is no intention that they integrate."

The commission issued a report to Congress setting out its views, among them a
controversial one that would use a computer registry based on Social Security
numbers and that employers would be required to call the registry to verify that
the number is valid.

The issue of illegal immigration is an explosive one as states attempt to deal
with rising numbers of people entering the country looking for work and ending
up on welfare rolls and receiving other benefits. Five states -- Texas,
California, Arizona, Florida and New Jersey -- have sued the federal government
seeking reimbursement for expenditures such as housing and medical care for
illegal immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has estimated that 3.4 million
illegal immigrants lived in the United States in October 1992.

Jordan said today that the commission believes that neither employer sanctions
nor more stringent labor standards alone can do the job.

"As long as U.S. businesses benefit from the hiring of unauthorized workers,
control of unlawful immigration will be impossible," Jordan told an audience at
a National Press Club luncheon where the report was released.

Actions against employers do not work, she said.

"They are doubly flawed. Illegal aliens are able to easily circumvent them by
purchasing counterfeit documents," she said. And, she said, because employers
worry about inadvertently hiring an illegal immigrant, they "discriminate
against foreign-looking and -sounding citizens and legal immigrants. As a
society, we can tolerate neither the fraud nor the discrimination."

She cautioned that the commission views legal immigrants differently and
strongly recommends "against any broad, categorical denial of eligibility for
public benefits . . . on the basis of their alienage."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 14, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. AIDE VOWS TO SHUT FLOW OF ILLEGALS, SLAMS WILSON POLITICS: THE GOVERNOR AND
A CLINTON OFFICIAL EXCHANGE BARBS OVER IMMIGRATION POLICY.

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. SNIFFEN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 522 words

DATELINE: Washington


A Clinton administration official pledged Thursday to "close the entire border"
to illegal immigration from Mexico within 18 months, and accused Gov. Pete
Wilson of demagoguery on the issue in his re-election campaign.

A year and a half into the Clinton administration plan, new fences, lights,
sensors, night-vision scopes and additional Border Patrol agents are being
placed along the 2,000-mile border, Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick told
reporters.

Justice Department officials have even consulted the Pentagon's Center for
Low-Intensity Conflict for advice on the most effective places to locate the new
officers and equipment, she said. The first intense efforts began last fall at
El Paso, Texas, and last month in California south of San Diego.

"We expect we will be able to secure the entire Southwest border during this
program," she said. "We do have a plan for the activities in El Paso and San
Diego to meet up."

She said the goal of closing the border to illegal immigrants was one "many
thought impossible." She offered no figures to bolster her claim of a dramatic
drop in border crossings.

Responding to Gorelick, Sean Walsh, press secretary to the California governor,
said: "Without Governor Wilson's relentless pursuit of the president, the
attorney general and Congress, we would not see the resources the federal
government is now sending to the border. If Ms. Gorelick is serious . . . we are
going to have to see much more resources committed to the border than what we
see today."

Substituting for Attorney General Janet Reno, who was visiting a Border Patrol
station in California, Gorelick escalated an attack Reno had mounted for the
past three weeks on Wilson. The Republican governor has put criticism of
immigration policy at the center of his hotly contested re-election campaign and
traded blunt letters with Reno.

"He's demagogued it. He's not been constructive at all," Gorelick said of
Wilson. "Anyone who thinks that you could have done what we have done in the San
Diego area in response to this election is crazy.

"Wilson in large part has been responsible for the very schizophrenic
immigration policy that you have seen in California. He was a very strong voice
for permitting employers in California to hire illegal aliens. He was adamant
that we not enforce employer sanctions."

Wilson has said a temporary-worker program he sponsored when he was a senator
was altered by Democrats to make it easier for the workers to stay illegally.
Last month, Reno unveiled Operation Gatekeeper south of San Diego. In the next
three months, 220 more Border Patrol agents will be added as part of a plan to
double the agents in that area, Gorelick said.

Wilson has said the administration began its efforts there only in response to
his lawsuits demanding federal reimbursement for money California spends aiding,
educating or locking up illegal immigrants.

Gorelick said the work began 18 months ago and that the administration long ago
proposed the spending recently enacted in the crime bill.

"This is not a short-term quick hit; this is permanent," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: '(Gov. Pete Wilson has) demagogued it. He's not been constructive at all.
'--Jamie Gorelick,
deputy attorney general
941014 FR 9A 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 21, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELCOMING IMMIGRANTS TRUE CONSERVATIVES, TOO, ARE BASHING PROP. 187

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 304 words


TRUE conservatives like their government small and bashful. They want
enterprising, hard-working people to have a chance to get ahead, and to prepare
their children to be productive adults.

So it's not surprising that some conservative voices are speaking out against
Proposition 187, which would require hospital and school staffers to enforce
immigration laws, and could force illegal immigrants' children to drop out of
school.

GOP presidential hopefuls Jack Kemp and William J. Bennett have attacked 187 as
a "fundamentally flawed, constitutionally questionable 'solution' which (is) not
consonant with our history, which would prove ineffectual and which would help
contribute to a nativist, anti-immigrant climate."

Private citizens would be conscripted "as quasi border guards and immigration
officials" by 187, say Kemp and Bennett. The law wouldn't affect welfare, since
illegal immigrants already are ineligible for benefits, but it could deny
children an education if their parents were here illegally.

Ron Unz, who challenged Gov. Pete Wilson from the right in the June primary,
observes that schools would have to hire staff to investigate the immigration
status of students and their parents. The undocumented mom who tried to enroll
her American-born kids in school would face a mandatory five- year prison term
for producing phony papers. So would your company's janitor, if he uses
fraudulent documents to show his right to work.

Proposition 187 is often seen as a compassion issue: Should citizens be nice or
get tough? Or as a practical issue: Would 187 threaten public health or public
safety?

The conservative critics add a different perspective. They're talking about
preserving American liberties and American optimism -- and about welcoming legal
immigrants to the Republican Party.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 31, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW IDEAS, NOT PROP. 187, WILL SAVE OUR STATE

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 804 words

"WE HAVE cut corners, looked the other way and sent the wrong message -- that
breaking the law pays, that only fools go through the proper immigration
channels. Well, no more." So said Michael Huffington in endorsing Proposition
187.

He knows about cutting corners and looking the other way because he employed an
illegal immigrant as a nanny for his kids. But no more. She lost her job when he
was elected to Congress.

Huffington's hypocrisy at least proves he's a Californian. He wants to hire
undocumented workers when it's convenient, but he doesn't want their kids to be
educated in public schools like other California children, or their illnesses to
be treated in public hospitals. He didn't turn over his nanny to la migra for
deportation. But he wants teachers to turn in their students, and nurses to turn
in their patients.

Proposition 187 is sliding in the polls, though it's still ahead. If it passes,
it won't save our state: Illegal immigrants already are ineligible for welfare
or non-emergency medical care; their American-born children are eligible for
welfare by federal law. And the U.S. Supreme Court already has ruled that
children have a right to an education irrespective of their immigration status,
so that part of 187 would be declared unconstitutional. Five-year prison terms
for people caught with phony papers? It's ridiculous. It's unenforceable.

If 187 passes, and nothing much happens, Californians will feel cheated of their
get-toughery, and even more resentful of illegal immigrants.

But if 187 fails, what then? So far, the nattering nabobs of nativism are
dominating the debate. Critics of "Save Our State" need to offer some
alternative ideas to calm public fears.

* First, enforce the border, as is now being done south of San Diego. If it
requires doubling the Border Patrol, do it. Call it a jobs program for ex-GIs.

Of course, many illegal immigrants came here legally, then overstayed their
visas. And the most determined border-crossers always will find a way. But even
if border enforcement is half a solution, it beats no solution. Californians
need to believe that our border is not a joke.

* Second, deport state prisoners who aren't U.S. citizens. To keep them from
coming right back, dangerous criminals would have to be deported to a prison
where they'd serve their sentences. Let's build the next California prison in
Mexico, and pay Mexicans to run it. It would be cheaper than holding them here.

* Third, change federal law so that social workers can inquire about the
immigration status of parents who seek welfare for their American-born children.

I don't think people come here for a child-only welfare check. They come to
work. But if they can't get work, they shouldn't get to cash their citizen-
children's welfare check.

In many cases, the family would be better off going home, where living is
cheaper and they've got relatives and friends, than scraping by here in extreme
poverty.

* Finally, political leaders should speak out against the multiculturalism fad,
which has proven remarkably destructive to our sense of community.
Multiculturalism argues that newcomers will not and should not assimilate
American habits and values; it overemphasizes ethnic differences and group
identity at the expense of shared humanity and individual endeavor.

The swing issue is English.

Many Californians believe that (legal and illegal) immigrants are "demanding"
bilingual education for their children and "refusing" to learn English. This is
largely false on both counts, but the perception is driving us apart.

The resources going into fighting over Proposition 187 should be spent on
creating more English as a second language classes, so immigrants don't have to
go on waiting lists, and setting up an all-English-instruction cable channel for
those who can't make it to a night class.

Educators should make it clear that their number one goal is to teach kids to
read, write and communicate in English, not to use public funds to preserve
their parents' language or culture.

In addition, they should stop implying that huge numbers of students speak no
English at all, which terrifies the public. Students classified as English
learners or "limited English proficient" score below average on tests given in
English, and need to improve their English to do well in school; few are
monolingual. Most succumb quickly to American culture, the most overwhelming
force on this planet.

Californians are the great American dreamers. We believe in expanding
possibilities, and endless self-creation. (Again, Huffington is a true
Californian: He is whatever he says he is, and forget about the past.)

Our state will be saved by holding fast to our optimism, individualism and faith
in the transformative power of the American dream.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Joanne Jacobs is a member of the Mercury News editorial board. Her column
appears on Mondays and Thursdays. You may reach her at 750 Ridder Park Dr., San
Jose, CA 95190, by fax at 408-271-3792, or post your views in her Mercury Center
message folder. Keyword: MC Talk, then pick Talk to the Mercury News and scroll
down to her name.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 4, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT QUESTION ENVELOPS FEINSTEIN PROP. 187: IF APPROVED, IT FACES A LONG;
AND UNPREDICTABLE -- COURT BATTLE.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN AND SCOTT THURM,, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1462 words


It was a telling answer to a simple question.

Gov. Pete Wilson, surrounded by police and prosecutors on the steps of the Los
Angeles County Jail, was asked by a reporter this week how Proposition 187 would
be implemented.

"The implementation obviously is going to require an explanation that will be
made when it passes," said the governor, who has championed the anti-
illegal-immigrant measure.

It was a strange response, even in the Alice-in-Wonderland world of contemporary
California politics. Wilson was telling voters to trust him. His advice: Help me
send a message to Washington on illegal immigration and everything will work out
fine, even if we're not at all sure of Proposition 187's details.

Those details are becoming devilishly difficult for Proposition 187 supporters
as Election Day nears and public scrutiny of the measure intensifies.

Californians want to know if school administrators and public-health nurses will
be screening children for immigration status instead of teaching them to read or
giving them flu shots.

Perhaps the biggest unknown is who will enforce the new law, particularly the
provisions requiring workers in publicly funded agencies to tell immigration
authorities about people they "suspect" are in the country illegally.

The ballot measure is silent on these issues. Attorney General Dan Lungren said
this week he wouldn't prosecute school administrators and nurses who refuse to
turn in students and patients. Wilson said Tuesday he would seek court orders to
ensure that the law is enforced, but late Thursday, his aides still couldn't say
whom these orders would be issued against.

"The proponents of 187 want people to send a message that they want to make life
harder on undocumented immigrants," said Bill Ong Hing, a Stanford University
law professor. "But we are not being smart as voters without seeing what the
impact of the law will be."

Those behind Proposition 187 acknowledge that its impact will be decided in the
courts, and they admit opponents are likely to win a court order barring most or
all of the measure from taking effect.

And this week the most comprehensive analysis of Proposition 187's legal future
was released by the office of the state legislative counsel -- the Legislature's
lawyer.

Federal funds at risk

The analysis bolstered the opinion of the office of California's non- partisan
legislative analyst, which has warned that the state could end up losing money
if Proposition 187 passes, because the measure puts $15 billion in federal funds
at risk vs. $1.4 billion in potential savings.

In a 43-page document that cites rulings in dozens of state and federal cases,
Deputy Legislative Counsel Jeff Thom concluded that the measure could result in
discrimination against racial and ethnic minorities and would violate the
privacy rights of millions of other Californians because of its "intrusive
nature."

The document details not only how the measure would violate U.S. court rulings
and federal laws and regulations but also how it would conflict with
California's own constitution. The latter conflict is important because
Proposition 187 is not a constitutional amendment like Proposition 13, another
California ballot measure that grabbed the nation's attention.

Approval of Proposition 187 would be the equivalent of voters passing a new law.
When the state constitution and a statutory initiative like Proposition 187
conflict, judges must give the constitution precedence.

Focus of court battles

The counsel's analysis also gives the clearest indication to date of what parts
of Proposition 187 are likely to be legal and what parts are likely to be the
focus of battles in state and federal courts for years to come. Here's a summary
of that analysis:

Legal: Cutting non-emergency health care, welfare benefits and most other state
services. The reason: The state government has no obligation to subsidize
violations of the law by adults, and the federal government has instituted
similar bans in welfare funding.

Contestable: Requiring school districts to report suspected illegal immigrants.
Reason: It would violate the federal Family Education Rights and Privacy Act by
ordering school administrators to supply the state attorney general and
immigration and education agencies with the names of suspected illegal-immigrant
children -- in addition to those of suspected parents and guardians. The
legislative analyst says that violating the act would risk a $2.3 billion loss
of federal funds.

Contestable: Expelling illegal-immigrant children from primary and secondary
schools. Reason: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1982 that a Texas school
district must provide a free education for illegal-immigrant children. A
"primary underpinning" of the case, the counsel notes, is that innocent children
should not have to bear the "onus of a parent's misconduct." Denying them an
education, the legislative counsel says, would violate the "equal protection"
provisions of the U.S. and California constitutions.

Legal: Barring enrollment of illegal immigrants at the state's public
universities and colleges. Reason: Again, the government has no obligation to
subsidize violations of the law by adults.

Contestable: Requiring all law enforcement agencies to verify the immigration
status of all people arrested in the state. Reason: It would violate a section
of the state constitution, added by voters in 1972, designed to protect privacy.
The counsel believes the provision would "unconstitutionally violate an
individual's right to privacy due to the intrusive nature of the verification
requirements and the increased potential of harassment."

More work for lawyers

Mark Silverman, an attorney with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San
Francisco, said Proposition 187 "should be called the Lawyers Full Employment
Act of 1994."

Indeed, lawyers representing a coalition of immigrant and civil-rights groups
are already working feverishly on stacks of legal briefs.

"We will be ready and have something out the day after it passes, assuming it
does pass," said Robert Almanzan of the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund.
"But our primary goal right now is to try to keep people's attention focused on
Election Day."

Proponents contend that they deliberately drafted the measure to challenge
federal laws, regulations and court rulings. But the expected length of the
legal battles -- a case can take five to 10 years to reach the U.S. Supreme
Court -- would give Proposition 187 foes time to put their own initiatives
before voters to dismantle those provisions they consider most offensive.

But which parts of Proposition 187 would be put on hold is anything but clear.
It's also possible the high court could decide to put a Proposition 187 case on
a fast track, since it would raise so many constitutional questions on an issue
that has riveted the nation.

Silverman argued that voters should not be misled by proponents' arguments that
courts will soften Proposition 187's sharp edges.

"People who vote for this should intend on kicking 300,000 kids out of school,"
he said. "It might happen."

WILSON AND PROP. 187

Here's a look at some of Gov. Pete Wilson's recent statements about enforcing
Proposition 187:

(box)Sept. 15: If Proposition 187 is approved and a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court
decision is overturned, Wilson would "institute some kind of orderly process of
determining who was legally in school or what parents were or were not legal and
begin that kind of deportation that is necessary."

(box)Oct. 14: During his debate with Democratic rival Kathleen Brown, Wilson is
asked whether, as a school principal, he would call immigration authorities to
report a second-grader who could not prove he was in the country legally.
"(Proposition) 187 will produce a lawsuit, and that lawsuit will go all the way
to the United States Supreme Court. And they will resolve the question as to
whether or not the taxpayers of California should pay for the education of that
child, if he is in the country illegally."

(box)Oct. 26: In a San Francisco Chronicle interview, Wilson is asked if he
favors requiring Californians to carry an identification card if Proposition 187
passes. "Yes," he replies. Later that day, Wilson and his aides insist he
misunderstood the question; Wilson says he does not want to issue state I.D.
cards and does not want to require legal residents to carry any documents.

(box)Nov. 1: Wilson is asked how Proposition 187 would be implemented. "The
implementation obviously is going to require an explanation that will be made
when it passes." Wilson also says he would seek court orders to require
officials to enforce the law.

Source: Mercury News staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related articles this section.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 11, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 FALLOUT 'GET REAL, PETE!'

BYLINE: DIANA GRIEGO ERWIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 787 words


WE'RE IN for difficult, ugly times, folks, thanks to the voters' ringing
endorsement of California's new anti-illegal immigrant law.

Proposition 187 opponents worried that if it became law, which it has, that more
discrimination would befall people who "look or sound like immigrants," as the
saying goes. And let's be honest: In this election, "immigrants" was a code word
for "Mexicans."

Unfortunately, we didn't have to wait for Proposition 187 to pass before the
legitimization of prejudice and hatred began.

Even before the results were in, months earlier, attitudes were changing -- from
a new coldness at the local immigration office to the way diners suddenly
studied their busboys and wondered. From the vineyards of the Napa Valley to
laundromats in San Diego, a sentiment of blame and fear chilled California to
the bone. You could feel it -- and it wasn't pretty.

Over at the Centro Guadalupe Catholic Social Services program in Sacramento,
which helps hundreds of needy families, including undocumented laborers, people
had been talking for months about how the brewing frenzy of misinformation and
mistrust was affecting their lives.

"It started way back, but really started picking up back in September," director
Sylvia Villalobos said. "That's when some of our clients were told their kids
wouldn't be admitted at school."

Villalobos also heard that two programs offering emergency food had denied
rations to people they suspected of being in the country illegally.

"These are church groups; they aren't bound by this," Villalobos said. "I had to
call the pastor and tell him what was going on."

At one of the food banks, the person turned away was a U.S. citizen of Mexican
descent. "Born and raised here," Villalobos said.

The volunteer who refused to give the needy woman food explained her stance with
one of those "You people come here and take our jobs . . . " tirades.

Anyone who uses the phrase "you people" should do some soul-searching that
includes some sort of bigotry check.

"People were acting as if this thing had already passed. We had to call some of
the schools and tell them, listen, this is going to be on the ballot, but it's
not the law yet," Villalobos said.

And now that it is?

"I think people are kind of stunned by the reality that there is so much
prejudice and hatred," she said. "It feels like Nazism . . . is being reborn.
But it's not somewhere else. It's here."

As Californians awoke from Tuesday's binge of blame Wednesday morning, three
things happened with Prop. 187: Gov. Pete Wilson vowed to enforce it. A state
Superior Court judge slapped a restraining order on it. California Attorney
General Dan Lungren vowed to fight to uphold it -- all the way to the U.S.
Supreme Court, if necessary.

These dramas passed unnoticed by a Sacramento High School student who begged his
mother to let him skip school because he feared the humiliation of being thrown
out.

"He hasn't come home, so I guess they didn't," said his mother, an undocumented
worker.

The rejection of the very people who have worked at California's lowest paying
jobs for generations have made her yearn to return to her native city,
Guadalajara. Her husband and children don't want to.

"They've been raised here. They like California. All of their experiences are
here. Their home. Their schools. Their friends." She brushed her bangs out of
her eyes and sighed. "How can these people say we're to blame? We work hard."
Meanwhile, Wilson reiterated Wednesday that neither "skin color" nor "national
origin" would make one person more suspect than the next. Pete, get real. Why
did we see only images of people with brown skin filling your anti-illegal
immigrant campaign ads? Where was the clerk with the perky British accent at
that high-priced boutique downtown? Or the Middle Eastern engineer who came on a
student visa and never left?

Or are high-profile Republicans Jack Kemp and William Bennett right to think
that Prop. 187 may backfire?

"The anti-immigration boomerang . . . will come back to hurt the GOP," they
wrote in an Election Day advertisement that ran in several California
newspapers. "The Republican Party helped to create a Democratic base in many of
America's cities with its hostile stand toward the last generation of immigrants
. . . Can anyone calculate the cost this time of turning away Asians and
Hispanics?"

Others say the outraged Latino students protesting in the streets may illustrate
that the long talked about Sleeping Giant is finally waking up. Will they remain
politically charged?

"They never have before," Alan Hoffenblum, a longtime Republican campaign
consultant, told reporters.

That sounds like a challenge to me.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Diana Griego Erwin is a Sacramento Bee columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 15, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS COULD UNLEASH 187

BYLINE: DAVID PRICE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 549 words


IN FAIRNESS to supporters of Proposition 187, it should be noted that the
obligation to provide a free public education to illegal immigrant children is
one of the largest unfunded federal mandates going.

According to papers filed by California last month in federal court, the state
now provides an education to about 308,000 illegal immigrants at a cost of
roughly $1.4 billion a year. These figures are on par with the conclusions of a
recent Urban Institute study, which estimated California's annual costs for
educating illegal immigrants at slightly under $1.3 billion. This burden falls
wholly on Californians' shoulders; the federal government transfers some money
to the states for the education of legal immigrants, but not illegals.

Both sides of the debate over Proposition 187 agree that California is required
to provide these benefits as the result of the Supreme Court's interpretation of
the 14th Amendment in a 1982 decision, Plyler vs. Doe.

Both sides apparently agree that the court would have to overrule Plyler for
Proposition 187 to take effect.

That, however, is untrue.

Contrary to widespread belief, the Plyler decision did not give illegal
immigrants a constitutional right to a free public education. Rather, the court
simply recognized the supremacy of Congress in matters of immigration policy,
and held that a state could not exclude illegal immigrants from benefits such as
education without congressional authorization.

This subtle difference is critically relevant to today's debate over
California's immigration burden.

In Plyler, the court held that Texas school districts could not exclude illegal
immigrant children from public schools. The court repeatedly suggested that the
states would have more flexibility in excluding illegal immigrants from free
public education if Congress were to articulate a policy authorizing such
limitations. "The exercise of congressional power," according to the court,
"might well affect the State's prerogatives to afford differential treatment to
a particular class of aliens."

Texas argued that such a congressional policy already existed: Federal law made
it illegal, after all, for the children and their parents to be in Texas in the
first place.

Rightly or wrongly, the court demanded that a specific federal policy exist with
regard to the denial of public education. Yet the court made clear that if
Congress acted, then the holding in Plyler would not apply.

In fact, in a 1976 case, DeCanas vs. Bica, the court permitted California to
exclude illegals from employment because that exclusion was implicitly
authorized by federal immigration laws.

California's expensive educational mandate is thus a creature of Congress, not
the Constitution. That, of course, does not settle the question of whether
illegal immigrant children should be kept out of schools. As long as the federal
government fails to deport parents who are here illegally, there are good
arguments for providing an education to their children.

But if Congress continues to prevent states from setting their own course -- if
the provision of this $1.4 billion benefit remains a federal dictate rather than
a matter for California's decision -- then the nation as a whole should pay the
bill for it.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
David Price is an attorney at the Washington Legal Foundation. He wrote this
article for the Washington Post.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 18, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON GETS A KEY ALLY ON IMMIGRANTS: GINGRICH SPEAKER-TO-BE WANTS U.S. TO PAY
COSTS, OR LET SERVICES BE CUT OFF

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: Washington


With Proposition 187 in judicial limbo, incoming House Speaker Newt Gingrich
told Gov. Pete Wilson on Thursday that he would push the new
Republican-dominated Congress to pay for all illegal-immigrant services -- or
stop requiring them altogether.

Sending the strongest signal yet that the GOP would seek a congressional version
of California's voter-approved ballot measure that denies most services to
illegal immigrants, Gingrich said he favored dismantling programs that aid those
who enter the United States unlawfully.

"I personally believe the best response is to eliminate the mandate because we
currently have a welfare magnet drawing people into the United States," the
Georgia Republican told reporters after a 45-minute meeting Thursday night with
Wilson.

Gingrich's remarks -- a stick of dynamite in the national immigration debate --
come a day after the Clinton administration predicted the new conservative
Congress would favor more temperate immigration policies than those called for
by Proposition 187.

The proposal from the speaker-in-waiting to reimburse the state's costs would
mean billions to California taxpayers, who now pay to educate, jail and
medically treat illegal immigrants. And it would be a fiscal flotation device
for Wilson's next budget, which he intends to balance with $2.8 billion in
unpledged federal immigration aid.

"If you are not able to be eligible (for social services) and your family's not
eligible for some services, I think you will find a great deal of
self-deportation," Wilson said in a hallway interview outside Gingrich's Capitol
office. "That is what 187 was all about. It is an effort to relieve state
taxpayers of the terrible unfairness that has been foisted upon them by the
federal government."

Wilson seemed gleeful with the political pay dirt he seemed to strike with
Gingrich, who adopted Wilson's well-worn line on immigration: If the federal
government wants these programs, let it pay for them.

"It is a federal duty to bear any costs that are required for those who are
here," Gingrich said. "To say to any state that your federal government has
failed, but you now have to pick up that burden, is explicitly wrong. And that
just means, frankly, we're going to have to find a way either to eliminate the
requirements or to pay for them."

California, which along with Florida is suing the federal government for full
reimbursement for costs associated with illegal immigration, estimates that it
will spend $1.53 billion to educate, $474 million to incarcerate, and $395
million to medically treat illegal immigrants this fiscal year.

An Urban Institute study earlier this year, which estimated that California is
home to 1.6 million illegal immigrants, said the state is exaggerating how much
it is spending. For example, the study said the price tag to teach those in the
country illegally is off by as much as 40 percent.

Wilson contrasted Gingrich's remarks Thursday with reaction he got last year
from Leon Panetta, when the White House chief of staff was Clinton's budget
chief and offered, Wilson said, more sympathy than money.

"What we were told was that they were sympathetic but that the problem was up on
the Hill," Wilson said, recalling Panetta's lament about the Democratic
Congress. "I don't think the problem is on the Hill. I think the problem is in
the White House."

Just hours after the GOP seized control of Congress last week, Clinton aides
predicted that Wilson would have no better luck with the Republicans in seeking
the billions he sought when Democrats ran Congress.

"It's an uphill fight," a Clinton aide said.

But Wilson recruited a new and powerful ally Thursday, who issued a flat promise
to help states with porous borderlands.

Gingrich urged Wilson and the governors of Texas, Florida, Arizona and New York
to help craft a new national immigration policy that could be adopted shortly
after the new Congress convenes in January.

"The United States was a land of opportunity for hard work," said Gingrich. "It
was not a land of opportunity for a free check and I think the current biases
are exactly wrong in terms of drawing people in in order for them to be able to
get money."

Gingrich rejected suggestions that a plan to dismantle the social-services
network was tantamount to a national Proposition 187.

"No. It's the United States Congress," he said. "We don't need a Proposition
187."

The Wilson-Gingrich meeting came one day after a federal district judge in Los
Angeles said some sections of Proposition 187 may violate federal law. He issued
a temporary restraining order prohibiting its immediate enforcement.

The Republican governor is seeking to sidestep what could be lengthy legal
delays in Proposition 187's implementation by winning allies among congressional
Republicans. In a speech today to a conservative think tank, Wilson is expected
to appeal for even more freedom from the shackles of federal funding
requirements.

"I think there are a number of governors, including a number of Democrats, who
would love to see major changes of a kind that would afford the states much
greater flexibility and the ability to be the laboratories of democracy," Wilson
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 22, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TUITION LAWSUIT MAY LIGHT THE WAY FOR PROPOSITION 187 LEGAL BATTLE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


As lawsuits against Proposition 187 work through the courts, educators are
watching a 2-year-old challenge to California State University's tuition
schedule for advance signs of how the battle might go.

The suit by several taxpayer and immigration reform groups aims to make CSU
schools charge higher out-of-state fees for illegal immigrants.

"It's going to be the hottest case in the state because it will serve as a
precedent to 187," said Richard Knickerbocker, an attorney representing the
seven groups and three individuals who filed the suit.

Proposition 187, approved this month by state voters, bars illegal immigrants
from public education, social services and non-emergency health care.

Opponents have challenged its constitutionality, and enforcement has been
temporarily blocked by a federal judge in Los Angeles. The case is likely to be
fought in both state and federal courts for years.

The CSU system, unlike University of California schools and most community
colleges, follows a 1985 Alameda County decision allowing illegal immigrants in
California to pay the same fees as legal residents.

"Right now, Cal State is the only option for undocumented students," said Linda
Loya, a college counselor at Huntington Park High School.

A Los Angeles Superior Court judge ruled in favor of the plaintiffs in the CSU
tuition case in September 1992, but the university appealed. The 2nd District
Court of Appeals is expected to hear the case before the end of this year.

"It will be a forerunner to 187 because it reflects the question as to whether
taxpayers should help pay for the education of people who are here illegally.
It'll show the disposition of the courts on this issue," said Leslie Dutton,
president of the American Association of Women, one of the plaintiffs. According
to university estimates, there are about 950 illegal residents enrolled at CSU's
20 campuses. They pay $1,584 annually in resident fees, compared to the $7,380
for out-of-state students.

The estimate is low, Knickerbocker said.

"The university doesn't require students to prove their legal status, so how can
they know how many illegal students there really are?" he asked.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 12, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHEN PROP. 187 HITS HOME MEASURE COULD SPLIT THOUSANDS OF FAMILIES

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1555 words


You identify the illegal immigrants. You send them back to the countries where
they were born.

To hear some Proposition 187 enthusiasts talk, implementing the initiative -- on
hold now as courts decide its fate -- is that simple.

The jarring reality, though, is that hundreds of thousands of California
families are divided by immigration status.

Illegal brother. Legal sister.

Legal parent. Illegal child.

Legal husband. Illegal wife.

The potentially wrenching divisions represent a convoluted legacy of years of
flawed or ignored immigration policies, a Byzantine amnesty program and
bureaucracies that turn people into letter-number designations.

"The majority of the people we deal with come from what I would call 'mixed
families,' " said Jane Yokoyama, director of the Santa Cruz County Immigration
Project. "It's a big problem."

During the white-hot 187 campaign, opponents made much of the fact that there
are tens of thousands of children who were born in the United States who have
parents in the country illegally. A lesser-known fact, however, is that there
are throngs of undocumented children who have at least one parent who is a U.S.
citizen or legal resident. San Francisco's Immigrant Legal Resource Center and
some state officials estimate there are 100,000 such children in California.

Adriana's two brothers, aged 6 and 11, are two of them.

The 16-year-old Watsonville girl, daughter of former strawberry pickers who came
to the Pajaro Valley to work in the mid-1970s, was born in Watsonville Community
Hospital. Her 12-year-old sister was born there, too.

But when Adriana was 5, her family moved back to her parents' village in Colima,
Mexico, where she lived until she was 12. Her mother raised her and her
Mexican-born brothers while their father worked in Pajaro Valley fields and sent
money back home, returning to Mexico as often as he could.

Because her father, now a nursery worker, had been a U.S. resident before 1982,
he was able to take advantage of the amnesty program that was a key provision of
the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.

His wife, however, wasn't so lucky. Although she had worked alongside him in the
fields for several years, the couple weren't able to locate an employer who had
records of her working, said Adriana, who asked that only her first name be used
to shield her family's identity.

When the family decided to move to Watsonville four years ago, the divided
immigration status became painfully clear at the Tijuana-San Diego border. With
immigration documents and birth certificates in hand, Adriana, her sister and
their father passed through U.S. immigration gates. Her mother and two brothers
sneaked across the border.

"Even though I had papers, I was afraid," said Adriana, an animated girl with
hair that flows down to her waist. "I knew I had to learn English and learn to
live in another place."

Adriana was able to keep up with her classmates and is now a senior at
Watsonville High School. She still worries that her English isn't flawless, but
she doesn't think that will hold her down. She's already applied to San Jose
State University and California State University, Sacramento. Her dream is to
become a psychologist.

But she often feels stuck between two worlds. She still enjoys Latin music over
American rock. And she still feels more comfortable with Spanish.

Ironically, her 11-year-old brother, who is not here legally, is more
Americanized and prefers rock music.

Since Proposition 187 passed Nov. 8, Adriana's family has had numerous
dinnertime conversations about its implications.

"Sometimes my mom gets mad and says that this is not her home and that she wants
to go back to Mexico," Adriana said. "She says she wants to live in a place she
feels free."

A matter of luck

Wrong place, wrong time

Sometimes who is legal and who is not has more to do with sheer luck than
anything else.

Take the case of 6-year-old Ana Rivera, who lives with her family in a trailer
in the rural Fresno County town of Kerman.

She is undocumented. Her mother is a permanent U.S. resident. A younger sister
is a citizen.

"Ana's in deportation proceedings even though her mom was granted amnesty," said
her attorney, Mark Silverman of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center. "She had
the bad judgment to be born the wrong month in the wrong place."

When Congress passed the 1986 immigration law, the lawyer explained, it granted
amnesty to illegal immigrants who had lived in the country continuously since
Jan. 1, 1982, as well as those who had worked on a farm for at least 90 days
between May 1, 1985, and May 1, 1986.

"But," Silverman said, "Congress really dropped the ball when it did not extend
amnesty to nuclear families."

To try to remedy the problem, Congress in 1990 passed the Family Unity Program.
It provided protection against deportation to children and spouses of people
with amnesty if the child or spouse had either entered the United States before
May 5, 1988, or, in the case of a child, was under 21 as of that date. Ana,
whose farmworker mother returned to Mexico to have her baby, was born four
months after the deadline. Authorities caught up with her after her mother,
Lucia, tried to smuggle Ana into the country at Calexico-Mexicali in March 1991.

Ironically, if Lucia Rivera had chosen to stay in the United States to have her
baby at a public hospital at taxpayers' expense, the whole family would now be
free and clear. Instead, Silverman said, Ana has been subjected to an endless
series of deportation hearings. And if Proposition 187 were to be enforced, she
would be denied a public education.

Last June, both houses of the California Legislature overwhelmingly passed a
resolution asking Congress and the president to grant reprieves to the
undocumented members of divided families. But neither Congress nor President
Clinton took action. And, as Silverman and other immigration attorneys note, the
passage of Proposition 187 demonstrated the public is in no mood for
liberalizing immigration laws.

"People have to take responsibility for their own illegal acts," said Harold
Ezell of Newport Beach, one of 187's co-authors.

Ezell, a former Western regional commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said his policy during the late 1980s was "not to split
families apart if they were already here."

But, he said, families abused the lenient policy by smuggling more relatives
into the United States. "I'm really sorry now that I did it," Ezell said.

Most immigrant-rights activists, however, say that leniency for family members
of people who were granted amnesty is the only decent thing to do --
particularly in light of the passage of 187, aimed at denying schooling, most
health care and social services to illegal immigrants.

"Many of these undocumented kids have been here a long, long time, and they're
totally acculturated" to the United States, said Celia Organista, program
director of Adelante, a Watsonville information and referral service for
low-income people.

Marin County resident Rick Oltman, who chaired the "Yes on 187 -- Save Our
State" committee, said the amnesty law "set a terrible precedent because it sent
a message worldwide that if you go to the United States, they can't get rid of
you."

Oltman said he hopes the initiative's passage will prompt illegal residents to
either leave the country or do everything they can to become legal residents.
Immigration attorneys say the latter is exactly what most people in divided
families have been doing. But, they point out, being eligible for permanent
residency status doesn't mean you get it. The INS has an annual immigration
limit for individual countries, so qualified Mexican applicants often find
themselves waiting for years.

State officials have not resolved whether the people on waiting lists will be
considered legal or illegal under 187.

For its part, the INS says the people are "low priority" as far as deportation
is concerned. But that's little comfort for those in legal limbo.

Afraid to leave

Crossings haunt woman

Maria, a 63-year-old Watsonville resident, has two sons and 10 grandchildren
living in the Pajaro Valley. She volunteers 20 hours a week at a Head Start
program, reading to children in Spanish. Her husband, who became legal five
years ago, has worked in a local cannery for decades.

Yet Maria still isn't a legal resident, even though she has lived in California
since May 1981. With the exception of one grandson, Maria is the only
undocumented member of her family here.

The reason is that she visited her sick daughter in Mexico several times in the
mid-'80s and made the mistake of returning to the United States through legal
channels -- with a passport and visitor's visa. That disqualified her from the
amnesty program because her U.S. residency wasn't considered "continuous." That
means when Maria's husband returns to Mexico to visit her daughter, still
stricken from pernicious anemia, she has to stay behind.

"Before, my lack of legal status didn't affect me that much," Maria said in
Spanish as her 3-year-old granddaughter played on her knee. "Now, with 187
passing and (a border crackdown), I feel really stressed out. I know that if I
go to Mexico to visit my daughter, I can't come back."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Lucia Rivera, left, and daughter Karla, right, are in the country legally, but,
because of the time and place of her birth, Ana, center, is not.
941212 FR 10A
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Ana Rivera, 6, is in deportation hearings even though her mother, Lucia, left,
is here legally.
941212 FR 1A 2; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 13, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 148 words


Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., was appointed to the Senate Judiciary
subcommittee overseeing immigration policy and immediately said she would
reintroduce legislation to better enforce it at the nation's borders. Feinstein,
who was elected to a six-year term last November, said Thursday that the lessons
of the election and voter approval of the anti-illegal immigrant Proposition 187
underscore the need to stop unlawful immigration. Last year Feinstein introduced
a bill that would have increased enforcement efforts at the border -- including
hiring more patrols -- but it failed to get out of committee before the session
adjourned. * Black Republicans, vowing to become a force in black politics and
in the Republican party, praised the GOP's "Contract With America" Thursday and
unveiled a new umbrella group dedicated to winning minority support for
conservative causes.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Feinstein
950113 FR 10A 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 14, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP RECONSIDERS BID TO BAR IMMIGRANT AID

BYLINE: DE TRAN AND JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1034 words


After the Republicans took over Congress and Proposition 187 swept into law, the
next front in the immigration wars seemed clear: Congress would yank benefits
for legal immigrants as well as illegals.

But now, because of people like Domingo Najar, some GOP stalwarts are
reconsidering the proposal that would bar most non-citizens from 60 federal
benefits, including childhood immunizations, Medicaid, subsidized school lunches
and Supplemental Security Income. The proposal emerged from its first
congressional hearing Friday with some strong support intact -- but it appears
headed for a long, tough battle.

Najar, a 69-year-old former farmworker, paid thousands in taxes during his four
decades of working in the United States, and now relies on government medical
benefits and income subsidies in retirement. To him, the proposal to change the
rules he has followed seems grossly unfair.

"I don't understand it," the San Jose resident said recently. "If they're not
going to help me when I need them, then why did I pay them all those taxes?"

Complaints from Najar and others are proving so persuasive that Republican House
Speaker Newt Gingrich declared last week that he had no desire to take action
against legal immigrants -- even though the proposal to remove benefits is part
of the Republican "Contract With America."

To Gingrich and other opponents, the differences between law-abiding non-
citizens like Najar and the illegal immigrants targeted by Proposition 187 are
becoming clear.

Issue of legal residents

"This is not a 187 issue," said Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Florida, a Cuban
immigrant who declined to sign the contract because of the issue. "This is an
issue of legal residents of the United States. When they were campaigning, the
proponents (of 187) said that they were not singling out or targeting or
opposing the rights or benefits of those who come to this country legally."

But proponents -- who include California Gov. Pete Wilson -- argue that the
United States does not have the same responsibility to legal immigrants that it
bears to its own citizens.

Their proposal, a part of the contract's Welfare Reform Act, also has financial
appeal: It would cut $21.7 billion over five years out of the federal budget.
The savings would fund work programs for welfare recipients, proponents say.

"If they are not citizens, why should they be Uncle Sam's responsibilities?"
asked Scott Brenner, press secretary for Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fla., a prominent
supporter of the measure.

The measure would affect about 1.2 million immigrants who currently receive some
kind of benefit. More than three-fourths of the savings would come from denying
assistance to elderly or disabled immigrants -- a fact that has spurred some of
the opposition.

The proposal is an added incentive for people to become citizens, Brenner
argues. The cuts won't come abruptly, he said. Non-citizens would be given at
least a year to become naturalized. Also, the proposal would exempt refugees for
six years and immigrants over 75 years old who have lived in the United States
for five years.

Constitutional question

Opponents question the measure's constitutionality. They also argue that state
and local governments would be forced to care for the immigrants.

While it's not clear how much of an added burden that would be, congressional
sources estimate it could cost the states $2.8 billion over five years just to
furnish medical care to legal immigrants who lost their federal health benefits.

The state and county "will end up footing the bill for these folks," said Keith
Honda, chief of staff for Santa Clara County Supervisor Mike Honda. "Their
cost-cutting wouldn't make the problem go away. There would be a group of people
that would have no other means of support" except for county and state programs.

Honda compiled a study in 1993 that showed that legal immigrants account for 38
percent of Santa Clara County's general-assistance caseload.

The cost shift is also an issue for supporters of the proposal, such as Wilson.
Nearly 38 percent of the nation's 11.7 million legal, non-citizen immigrants
live in California.

"The governor made it very clear to Mr. Gingrich and a number of other
congressional officials that any cost-cutting that takes place needs to be
coupled with assurances that the federal government isn't shifting cuts from
their budget to the state," said Wilson spokesman Paul Kranhold.

States could avoid the added burden from those proposed cuts by passing their
own laws denying aid to legal immigrants.

Local residents affected

Locally, the proposal has stirred strong reaction in San Jose's large Hispanic
and Asian communities, where many residents would be personally affected. About
half of the 60 seniors who were eating lunch last week at the Eastside
Neighborhood Center in San Jose said they were legal residents, but not
citizens. Most had been in this country for more than 10 years and had paid
Social Security, disability and other taxes.

Ernestina and Jose Bernal, who moved here from Mexico in 1959, said their
lifetime of paying taxes should be worth something.

Jose Bernal, 65, a retired construction worker, said he hadn't become a citizen
because he felt a sense of apathy.

His 60-year-old wife was disabled by a stroke two years ago. She is afraid she
could not pass the naturalization test because she does not speak English, she
said.

But if their benefits are threatened, both say they will enroll in classes to
become citizens. "It will be our only option," Ernestina Bernal said.

Gabriel De la Torre, 70, a Mexican immigrant who became a U.S. citizen in 1953,
supports the proposal.

"This will be a wake-up call for many people," he said. "It will finally give a
lot of them a reason to become citizens."

De la Torre said he had heard dozens of excuses immigrants use for not becoming
citizens: Some hope to return to their homeland someday, others don't want to
spend the time filling out the paperwork.

"It's all baloney," he said. "We all need to be able to vote. We need to have a
say in politics here. Proposition 187 and now this proposal are making people
see that."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 20, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE MUST PUBLICIZE PROP. 187 RULING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


A federal judge told state officials Thursday to spread the word that most of
the Proposition 187 immigration initiative is blocked and that people who seek
public education or benefits won't be reported to federal authorities.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer issued the preliminary injunction that she
first announced in court Dec. 14, when she ruled that civil rights groups had a
good chance of proving key provisions of the initiative violated federal
immigration law.

Proposition 187, approved by a 59 percent vote in November, would prohibit
public education, social services and non-emergency public health care for
illegal immigrants, who are already ineligible for most non-educational state
benefits.

Pfaelzer told the state to require all schools, health care providers and health
and welfare agencies to post notices by Feb. 13 telling the public that the
measure was not being enforced and that no one who sought public services would
be reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Proposition 187
requires agencies to report suspected illegal immigrants to the INS.

She did not order the state to put the same information in newspaper, radio and
television announcements, as opponents of the initiative had requested.

Unlike an earlier restraining order in the case, the injunction can be appealed
to higher courts.

Gov. Pete Wilson has predicted that the U.S. Supreme Court would eventually rule
on Proposition 187 and overturn its previous ruling requiring states to educate
all residents regardless of immigration status. But Wilson said through his
press office Thursday that no decision has been made on an appeal. He has 30
days to appeal.

If not appealed, the injunction will remain in effect until the case goes to
trial. Pfaelzer says she wants a trial completed this year but has not set a
trial date.

"The governor would like to see Proposition 187 carried out," said spokeswoman
Kristine Berman. "It's the will of the people. But we will abide by the judge's
preliminary injunction."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 6, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON BOLSTERS BORDER PATROLS ILLEGAL CROSSINGS UP AFTER PESO'S COLLAPSE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: Washington


President Clinton ordered 62 border patrol agents to Arizona on Sunday to combat
an increase in illegal border crossings that the White House attributed partly
to the peso's collapse.

Press secretary Mike McCurry said the agents will report to work Tuesday,
increasing the border forces at Nogales, Ariz., by 17 percent. The agents are
being reassigned from operations on the Canadian border and from other parts of
the country.

McCurry said the administration had been training 100 new patrol agents for
Arizona in anticipation of increased crossings there, stemming from border
crackdowns in California and Texas.

"But illegal crossings increased so dramatically in January in the wake of the
peso devaluation that more agents are needed now," McCurry said.

Crackdown on jobs

In addition, the administration will ask Congress as part of its budget request
to make it more difficult for illegal immigrants to find jobs in the United
States.

The fiscal budget Clinton will present today will seek to hire about 570
additional investigators for checks of work sites and to finance new methods of
verifying that job applicants are in the country legally, Justice Department
officials said.

The request is notable because it signals a potential turning point in
enforcement of the nation's immigration laws. The INS traditionally has focused
almost solely on border crossings where many immigrants enter the country and
has relied on voluntary employer compliance with the ban on hiring illegal
immigrants.

But experts say the influx of illegal immigrants will not be reduced
significantly unless the government does more to clamp down on employers who
violate the law, either knowingly or unknowingly.

'Band-Aid on a cancer'

The new approach was dismissed as little more than "a Band-Aid on a cancer" by
Leslie Goodman, deputy chief of staff for California Gov. Pete Wilson, who has
clashed repeatedly with the administration about immigration and its effect on
the state.

A new Harris Poll released during the weekend showed a hardening of public
attitudes toward immigrants. The data came from a nationwide survey of 1,250
adults interviewed in December. The poll has a three percentage-point margin of
error.

The survey found:

* Those who believe that "a lot of immigrants bring needed skills to the
country" decreased from 49 percent in 1992 to 41 percent in December 1994.

* Those who believe that "immigrants use more than their fair share of
government services such as welfare, medical care and food stamps" increased
from 62 percent to 74 percent.

* Those who believe immigrants "take jobs away from American workers" (64
percent), "drive down wages" (66 percent) or make "race relations worse in our
cities" (61 percent) remained high but did not change significantly.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 14, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL JUDGE REJECTS STATE SUIT ON IMMIGRATION U.S. NOT LIABLE FOR STATE
EXPENSES TIED TO ILLEGAL ENTRANTS, RULING SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 429 words

DATELINE: San Diego


A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit by the state of California that attempted to
recoup billions of dollars from the U.S. government to cover the costs of
serving illegal immigrants.

U.S. District Court Judge Judith Keep ruled Monday that decisions on how the
federal government guards its borders and spends its money on fighting illegal
immigration should be handled by Congress and the president.

"How the country is affected by border problems are legitimate concerns," Keep
said before issuing her ruling. ". . . My jurisdiction in this area is very
limited."

Her opinion echoed one reached in Florida, where a similar lawsuit was dismissed
in December. The states of Texas, Arizona, New Jersey and New York have also
filed such lawsuits, claiming the United States' failure to secure its borders
has allowed thousands of illegal immigrants to enter their respective
jurisdictions.

State will appeal

"While I am disappointed by Judge Keep's decision, Californians should not give
up hope," Gov. Pete Wilson said in a statement Monday. "We will appeal this
decision . . . all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court, if necessary, to force the
federal government to live up to its constitutional obligations of enforcing the
nation's immigration laws."

Illegal immigration has become a hot-button issue in California, mirrored in
voters' overwhelming approval last November of Proposition 187.

The measure was designed to cut public services to undocumented adults and
children but has been stalled in court.

Providing education, medical care and prisons for illegal immigrants costs
California taxpayers $2.4 billion a year, said Eugene Hill, who represented the
state at Monday's hearing.

The state originally had filed three separate lawsuits focusing on each service,
but they were consolidated into the single case heard Monday.

Immigrants rights activists had criticized the lawsuit, filed in San Diego on
April 29, as no more than a political ploy by Wilson to enhance his bid for
re-election last fall.

House legislation

Since his re-election, Wilson has met with House Speaker Newt Gingrich and other
congressional leaders to develop policy that would have the federal government
pick up more of the costs associated with illegal immigration.

The House passed legislation last week that included more than $600 million to
reimburse states for the cost of imprisoning criminal illegal immigrants.

"If the legislation is signed by the president," Wilson said in his statement,
"California can expect a large part of those funds."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  February 17, 1995 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

LAWMAKERS FAULT CRACKDOWN GATEKEEPER CALLED FAILURE

BYLINE: ERNEST SANDER, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: San Diego


California lawmakers joined the growing skepticism of Operation Gatekeeper,
claiming the illegal immigration crackdown is failing and demanding more agents
on the U.S.-Mexico border.

Of more than 1,200 border patrol agents committed to Gatekeeper since October,
only about 25 are working along the border at any one time, said Rep. Duncan
Hunter, R-Calif., speaking in Washington on Thursday.

The others, he said, are occupied with apprehending, incarcerating, feeding and
transporting aliens who successfully cross the border.

Hunter joined four other California Republicans -- Carlos Moorhead, Elton
Gallegly, Randy "Duke" Cunningham and Brian Bilbray -- and Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, in a letter Thursday to Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner.

"The disheartening performance of Operation Gatekeeper," they wrote, "is
testament to the need for putting border patrol agents directly on the border."
Statistics disputed

The Border Patrol says that Hunter's statistics are incorrect, claiming that
between 50 and 80 agents work right up against the fence at any one time.

"In those areas where there is high visibility we do it," Border Patrol
spokeswoman Ann Summers said. "Those areas where we don't have the terrain to do
it, we don't."

But the lawmakers' call for different tactics is part of a larger revisiting of
Gatekeeper and its claims to be sealing the border.

A regional immigration official conceded Thursday that Gatekeeper has been a
misguided initiative.

"Gatekeeper is screwed up for a litany of reasons," the official, who asked to
remain anonymous, told the Associated Press. "They didn't have the right plan.

"The INS came up with the old tired tactics and they didn't work," he said. The
official predicted that as early as next week, Border Patrol agents would be
reassigned along the line similar to Operation Hold the Line in El Paso, which
has cut apprehensions by 70 percent. The Border Patrol says that fewer
apprehensions means that fewer people are trying to cross the border.

3-tier plan

Unlike Hold the Line, which stacks agents flush with the border, Gatekeeper's
agents are arrayed in three tiers within five miles of the border.

Both the Justice Department and the Border Patrol denied Thursday that there
were plans to reshuffle agents to reinforce the border itself.

"It (Gatekeeper) is not Operation Hold the Line and it won't be," said Justice
Department spokeswoman Ana Cobian. "You have two different sets of
circumstances."

Since Gatekeeper's October launch, federal officials have insisted that it's
useless to try to compare the San Diego border with the El Paso boundary. The
San Diego border is more mountainous and marshy, the argument goes, and most of
the crossings are at night and involve sophisticated, dangerous smuggling
operations.

Results touted

They have aggressively touted Gatekeeper's early results, saying it is
frustrating would-be illegal immigrants and pushing crossers to the east, away
from the more populated areas as intended.

Attorney General Janet Reno said in early January that in the first three months
of the operation, the number of illegal immigrants crossing the border was
reduced by 32 percent.

But the California lawmakers Thursday said apprehensions of illegals in the San
Diego area went up from 1,336 on Feb. 1 to 2,173 on Feb. 13, an indication that
more people are being smuggled over the border.

"Our neighborhoods are being used as a cat-and-mouse game of catch-and- run,"
said Bilbray, who represents the Imperial Beach area and whose home is a mile
from the border.

Hunter said that influx could be dramatically reduced if the INS stationed a
pair of patrol agents every 200 or 300 yards along the 14-mile border between
the ocean and the San Diego hills.

Smith, who chairs a Judiciary Committee panel on immigration, said he would hold
hearings next week on border security to explore the "growing credibility gulch
between the administration's actions and their words."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 8, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP READIES FOR EMOTIONAL IMMIGRATION BATTLE DEBATE TO OPEN ON BORDER POLICY

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: Washington


Top Republican immigration strategists -- bracing for bruising debate about how
to control U.S. borders -- said Tuesday that they were prepared for charges of
racism as they try to stop illegal immigration.

"It's a wonderful issue. Get aboard because it's filled with emotion, fear,
guilt and racism," said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., chairman of the Senate
immigration subcommittee. "The detractors will use racism on us to do nothing."

The Republican-controlled Congress will convene hearings on immigration policy
next week, when it puts President Clinton's $2.6 billion plan for border control
under the political microscope. Republicans are expected to call for even
tougher enforcement than contained in Clinton's proposal, which would increase
border-control funding by $1 billion this year.

Lawmakers will also wrangle over Republican legislation to halt welfare payments
to legal immigrants and to block some family members from joining relatives in
the United States.

Simpson, House counterpart Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, and Democratic Sen. Dianne
Feinstein of California pledged at a round-table forum sponsored by the National
Press Club on Tuesday to promote a bipartisan immigration bill, but the former
chairman of the congressional Hispanic caucus was having none of that. "My
objective is going to be to try to kill all of these proposals," said the former
chairman, Rep. Bill Richardson, D-N.M., who criticized efforts to test a
national computerized registry to check the immigration status of job
applicants.

Richardson also objected to plans to use portions of California's Proposition
187 as a model for federal law. He took particularly sharp aim at Smith's
proposal to deny welfare and other public assistance to legal immigrants who
choose not to become U.S. citizens.

"That's not only counterproductive and discriminatory, but it won't work," the
House Democrats' chief deputy whip said. He cited a study by the Urban
Institute, a moderate think tank, that concluded legal immigrants pay billions
of dollars more in taxes than they collect in taxpayer-funded assistance.

Simpson said he, too, would try to block any plan to deny assistance to those
who reside here legally. Feinstein, while not endorsing Smith's proposal, said
she would back legislation that makes it clear that those who sponsor legal
immigrants are responsible for their economic well-being.

Feinstein, who has proposed a $1 crossing fee at U.S. borders, said policy
makers no longer can ignore Proposition 187, the voter-approved amendment to
California's Constitution that denies most public benefits to illegal
immigrants.

"I'm a Californian and 45 percent of all the illegal immigrants in this country
are in my state," Feinstein said. "(When) I hear people say, 'Well, I'm going to
obstruct anything that comes forward,' I mean I find that just egregious. Just
egregious."

Simpson agreed with Smith that it was time to trim the number of extended-
family members who are allowed to join relatives living legally in the United
States.

"We will cut back on family reunification," Simpson said after the forum. "That
does not mean we will cut back on spouses and minor children. It means we will
look carefully at brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens."

Harold Ezell, a former Immigration and Naturalization Service official and a
member of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, which backed Proposition
187, said one proposal he favored would abolish the preferential immigration
status now held by married sons and daughters and adult brothers and sisters of
U.S. citizens. About 88,400 immigrants are admitted yearly under those
categories.

"Personally, I believe that family reunification was not intended to be a chain
letter, where it goes on chain link upon chain link," Ezell said. "We have
allowed legal immigration -- which I'm strongly in favor of -- to run wild over
the past 10 years."

Feinstein appealed for rational debate as hearings begin next week. "It is time
when what we need are cool heads -- precise and practical public policy," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Simpson
950308 FR 6A 1
Photo: Feinstein
950308 FR 6A 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 29, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NORTH OF THE BORDER SMART USE OF NEW AGENTS CAN CURB ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 359 words


ONE year into President Clinton's border control initiative, more immigration
agents finally are on the way for the sorely undermanned interior of California.
But how should they be used?

As federal immigration chief Doris Meissner says, the $540-million-plus program
has to be "spent smart." So far, the government has wisely avoided quick fixes,
such as militarizing the border and conducting raids on inland factories.
Spending smart means more emphasis on public safety and long-term strategies
that discourage illegal immigration. Inland agents should nab criminal
immigrants, shut down illegal workplaces and go after smugglers.

Chasing down every hard-working maid, janitor and schoolchild who is here
without permission would be terribly expensive and an immigration agent's
nightmare. Even if we doubled the number of agents stationed in the California
interior, it would take them forever to round up and deport an estimated 41,000
undocumented maids.

It would be better to go after criminal immigrants who prey on society. Let's
strive to deport them, and to get assurances that they will do time in foreign
prisons.

Another effective use of new agents is to send them after sweatshops and illegal
farm labor camps. Lax enforcement of workplace safety and labor laws motivates
unscrupulous employers to recruit and exploit illegal immigrants. Crackdowns
will either shut down those workplaces or make the work more attractive to
citizens and legal immigrants.

Meanwhile, there's unfinished business along the border.

While border crackdowns like Operation Gatekeeper in San Diego have succeeded,
they've also pushed more desperate border crossers into the hands of
sophisticated smugglers. Yet U.S. anti-smuggling units remain half their
authorized size.

Mexico last week announced its own crackdown on smugglers. This may be pure
political posturing from Mexico's troubled government, but the U.S. should seize
the opening and seek cooperation. If smugglers can work both sides of the
border, so can anti-smuggling forces.

Two nations sharing a 2,000-mile-long border should be able to spend smart
better than one.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 1, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO APPEAL ON IMMIGRATION STOPS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 137 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Federal authorities have decided not to appeal a ruling that forbids immigration
officials to stop cars based only on the ethnicity of the occupants.

The decision ends the case against Mario Gonzalez Rivera, an undocumented worker
whose car was pulled over on a San Diego freeway only because the occupants
looked Hispanic, his attorney said Friday.

In April 1994, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled the U.S. Border
Patrol committed a "bad-faith, egregious constitutional violation" in stopping
the car. It also barred evidence discovered by the officers from being used in
any deportation hearings.

In a one-page motion filed with the appeals court this week, assistant attorney
general Frank Hunger announced the decision by the solicitor general not to
appeal the ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 18, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIGRANTS TO MEXICO ILLEGALS WHO CROSS SOUTHERN BORDER OFTEN FACE ABUSE,
DEPORTATION, POVERTY

BYLINE: ESTHER SCHRADER, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 983 words

DATELINE: TECUN UMAN, Guatemala


THEY slip across the border at night, heading north in search of jobs no one
else wants in sweltering farm fields and city sweat shops.

They are victimized by "coyotes" who guide them across in exchange for
everything they own. They are preyed upon by robbers. Once in their new country,
they are hunted by immigration authorities and ostracized by legal society.

The scene is familiar, but the crossing is far from Tijuana and the jobs are not
in Los Angeles or the Salinas Valley. This gritty Guatemalan town known as
"Little Tijuana" is the gateway to Mexico's southern border, where hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants from Central America and beyond come seeking a
new start -- only to find Mexico an unwilling host.

Many of their journeys end when they are caught and deported for violating
Mexican immigration laws that are stricter and more harshly enforced than U.S.
laws.

Those who make it often live a nightmare of near-slavery in boiler-room
factories in Mexico City and on coffee and banana plantations where even
children work.

They are denied social services under laws predating by decades California's
Proposition 187, the state initiative vigorously opposed by Mexico.

"Mexico cries out at how illegal immigrants are treated in California, but gives
no thought to the cries of illegal immigrants in Mexico," said Sergio Aguayo,
head of Civic Alliance, a democracy and human rights group in Mexico City.

"The government and the businessmen in Mexico do worse things to the Central
Americans than what they face in the United States. It is a situation of
practical slavery."

The testimony starkly contrasts with Mexico's reputation for welcoming refugees.

The country admitted Spaniards during the Spanish Civil War, Jews fleeing Nazi
Germany who were denied entry to the United States, and Cubans fleeing
dictatorship and communism.

And until the early 1980s, Mexico admitted without question tens of thousands of
refugees fleeing wars and repressive regimes in Guatemala, El Salvador,
Nicaragua and Honduras.

Pace hasn't slackened

Although the end of the Cold War lessened tensions in those countries, the
immigration has not slowed.

More than 300,000 illegal immigrants slip through the jungles of Guatemala into
Mexico each year, Mexican officials estimate. Most come from Central America,
but South Americans commonly make the crossing as well, along with Chinese,
Indians, Russians and others seeking a back door into the United States.

Today's immigrants are largely economic refugees, and Mexico, facing soaring
unemployment and crushing poverty of its own, is cracking down.

While Mexico deported 80,184 illegal immigrants in 1989, 113,115 were deported
in 1994, according to Mexican immigration authorities.

In the past four years, Mexico has doubled patrols on its border with Guatemala
and set up roadblocks on highways leading into the country.

Education and health services are denied to illegal immigrants, and hospitals
are required to report immigrants who seek treatment.

Tougher policies to come

Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon has announced plans to make the
country's immigration policies tougher still.

Being deported by Mexico's feared border patrol or caught by its notoriously
corrupt police often means being robbed, beaten or raped, according to
immigrants, human rights advocates and church authorities.

"I know the U.S. authorities; they don't mistreat you," said Samuel Lopez, 21, a
Guatemalan accountant who lived illegally in California for six months, working
as a farmhand before he was deported in 1993. "They deport you, but they don't
beat you up. The Mexicans? They are crooks, nothing more."

Immigrant advocates said Mexican police and border officials often work in
conjunction with thieves who hold up immigrants and then split the proceeds with
the authorities.

Robbers "take their money, they take everything including their shoes, they rape
the women and beat the men," said Carlos Lomeli Hernandez, priest at the Church
of San Agustin in Tapachula, a Mexican city about 15 miles from the Guatemalan
border. "I am ashamed to even know what goes on."

On a recent trip to El Salvador, Zedillo admitted the treatment of illegal
immigrants "left much to be desired."

'My government will take all the necessary measures to avoid these violations,
which are unacceptable," he said.

Those who elude the guards and robbers often work in the fields in the border
state of Chiapas alongside other immigrants who possess work permits.

Industry leaders contend the workers toil only eight hours a day in the field
and that the conditions are an improvement from where they came from.

'They are better off'

"They are better off than in Guatemala," said Camilo Capri Bodegas, head of the
Association of Banana Producers in Tapachula. "There is no slavery here." The
view is different from the fields of a profitable plantation about 20 miles from
Tapachula. Workers said they toil seven days a week, 12 hours a day for a daily
take of less than $3. Some sleep between the banana trees, others in narrow,
windowless concrete blocks where wooden-slat bunks are stacked five high under a
tin ceiling.

"When I came I thought I would find something more, a better life, but it's
practically the same here as what we left, and I miss my mom," said Elsa Hoch, a
22-year-old Guatemalan with two children who was making tortillas for her
husband.

Despite the risks and squalid conditions awaiting them, immigrants still come to
Tecun Uman, believing life on the other side is better than what they left
behind.

"It's a tragedy. Tecun Uman is an entrance to hell," said Jesus Rodriguez,
priest at the Parroquia del Senor de las Tres Caidas in Tecun Uman. "We try to
tell them not to go on, but we can't really understand the extent of the misery
they are escaping."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, Map;
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Border crackdown
Source: Mexican government
Chart not taken in database
950518 FR 18A 3; fever chart
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Tecun Uman
950518 FR 18A 4

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 4, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CANADA KEY SOURCE OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PROPOSALS IN CONGRESS WOULD IMPOSE
BORDER-CROSSING FEES, INCREASE PATROLS

BYLINE: TRACEY A. REEVES, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: Washington


Mention immigration and many Americans conjure up visions of desperate men,
women and children sneaking across the Mexican border, wiggling their way into
American jobs and onto welfare.

It's not often one considers the northern border of the United States and how it
contributes to the country's wave of legal and illegal immigration.

Yet, according to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, Canada is the
fourth-largest source of illegal immigration in the United States. Proposed
changes in immigration laws, although aimed mostly at the southern border, will
affect Canadians and the northern border as well.

"True, Canadians are not significant contributors when you look at illegal or
legal immigration and the big picture," said David Hirson, a California attorney
who specializes in immigration law. "But immigration is immigration no matter
how you look at it."

Stricter regulation

If proposals now in Congress pass, fees will be charged people crossing back and
forth to Canada, increased border patrols could slow crossing times, employers
would have to be more careful in inspecting the documents of new workers and
legal immigration would be cut back.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that of the roughly 4
million illegal immigrants living in the United States, 97,000 are from Canada,
behind 1.3 million from Mexico, 327,000 from El Salvador and 129,000 from
Guatemala.

There were 17,156 legal Canadian immigrants in 1992, the last year the
immigration agency compiled such statistics. Some immigration groups say that
large numbers of them live in the Los Angeles area and in Michigan and Florida.
At least half of the illegal Canadians in the United States entered the country
legally, then overstayed their visas, said Stan Cannon of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform.

"For whatever reason, they decided not to go back or renew their status," he
said. "And because they blend in so well, they stay on for years without
changing their status."

Blend in well

Larry Olson, supervisory special agent with the immigration agency in St. Paul,
Minn., said the fact that Canadians blend in so well is one reason why they may
not be investigated as aggressively as other illegal immigrants.

"Where we might get information on a group of Mexicans working illegally here,
we don't as much with Canadians," he said. "It's just harder to pick up on where
the illegal Canadians are and who they are."

Still, the U.S. Border Patrol office in Grand Forks, N.D., said that it arrested
1,237 illegal immigrants in 1994, many of them for using fraudulent documents to
obtain work, and about a fifth of them were Canadians.

More than half of the immigrants arrested were deported, the Border Patrol said.
Lonny Schweitzer, an intelligence agent in the Grand Forks Border Patrol office,
said Canadians are generally easier to deport because the border is so close and
they tend to volunteer to return to Canada rather than challenge the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Restrictions certain

As the federal government cracks down on immigration, it appears almost certain
that any new policy will restrict the number of people who will be allowed to
enter the United States.

Experts say proposals to control legal immigration by requiring applicants to be
able to support themselves would not affect Canadians much because they tend to
be better educated and equipped to work when they arrive in the United States.

But some immigration experts argue that being highly skilled could work against
Canadians as the immigration debate plays out.

"From a worker's perspective, Canadians would appear to be much more of a threat
to the angry white male than another immigrant who lacks education and job
skills," said Rodolfo De la Garza, a professor of government at the University
of Texas, Austin.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 14, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUDGET PLAN: BAR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS FROM WELFARE

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 535 words


Thousands of legal immigrants now eligible for Medi-Cal or Aid to Families With
Dependent Children would be barred from receiving such public assistance for up
to five years under the new state budget unveiled Monday by Gov. Pete Wilson.

The budget proposes to save $40.1 million a year by forbidding such welfare to
immigrants who came to this country under the sponsorship of a relative or
agency and who have lived in this country less than five years.

The plan would cut benefits to 15,000 recipients of Medi-Cal and 10,000
recipients of AFDC, according to Wilson aides, although the total number of
immigrants affected isn't clear because many welfare recipients get both AFDC
and Medi-Cal.

Wilson's proposal might be hard to put into effect, however. The welfare cuts
would require the approval not only of state legislators but also of Congress
because Medi-Cal and AFDC are partly financed by the federal government. And
while some measures have been introduced in Congress this year to severely
restrict the ability of legal immigrants to receive welfare benefits, some
immigrant-rights activists vowed Monday to work hard to oppose such changes.

"We're going to give them a big fight on this," said Ignatius Bau with the
Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area, adding that
the cuts hardly seem defensible, given the relatively few numbers of immigrants
receiving such aid.

Under federal law, most immigrants aren't eligible for AFDC, food stamps or
other welfare assistance until they have been in this country for five years. In
fact, the law says they can be deported if they wind up as a public ward during
that time.

But some exceptions are allowed, particularly if the immigrant's economic
circumstances worsen after arrival in this country. And currently, even
sponsored immigrants have been able to get welfare benefits in California if
their sponsors declare they can't support them.

If Wilson's proposals were passed into law, the cuts "would be disastrous," said
Eric Cohen, an attorney with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in East Palo
Alto. For most immigrants who wind up on welfare, he said, "something has
happened to them so that they need to lean on the little tiny bit of safety net
that this country still gives."

While the cuts might be painful, Wilson defended them as essential, given the
federal government's apparent unwillingness this year to reimburse California
for the costs of providing public services to illegal immigrants.

"This year, California will collect enough revenue to cover all of its own
bills," Wilson said. "But we can't afford to pay the federal government's bills
as well, without reducing services for the legal residents of California."

Besides, the governor argued, those who sponsor immigrants should be obligated
to take care of them, not the state.

"Someone who undertakes sponsorship . . . in effect says to his fellow citizens
and taxpayers, 'I vouch for this person and, in fact, if necessary, I will
underwrite the expenditures required to maintain him,' " said Wilson. "That's an
obligation that the sponsor cannot make lightly, and it's one that we expect
them to make good on."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Budget Squeeze
Mercury News Staff Writer Tom Farragher contributed to this report.
Related story (page 1A)

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 13, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

EVERYONE MAY GET NATIONAL I.D. CARDS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 87 words


All U.S. citizens and legal immigrants would get the equivalent of a national
I.D. card under an expected proposal to Congress by the Commission on
Immigration Reform. The new Social Security-type cards, including photo and
fingerprints, would allow employers to verify work eligibility through a
national data base.

The idea is to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs through fake
documents, and reduce discrimination against citizens and legal aliens. The
commission's first report is due in September.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 31, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANEL BACKS NETWORK TO VERIFY WORK STATUS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 120 words


The United States should create a nationwide information system that would allow
employers to verify a job applicant's authorization to work, members of the U.S.
Commission on Immigration Reform said, adding they will soon make that
recommendation to Congress. The goal is to improve enforcement of the 1986
federal law prohibiting the employment of illegal immigrants and thus deter them
from entering the country.

The commission's plan seems certain to pose difficult political choices for
President Clinton. Even though the proposal is not official yet, it has
reignited arguments about whether thwarting illegal immigration justifies large
and intrusive programs such as a national identification card.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 15, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A DECADE AFTER '1984': I.D. CARDS?

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 831 words


CROSSING BACK from Canada to the United States after a day's jaunt, I gave the
immigration officer my driver's license as I.D. He asked for my 11-year- old
daughter's I.D. She didn't have any. "She's my daughter," I said, wishing she
looked a little bit like me.

"You've got no proof of that," he said.

It had never occurred to me that anyone would question my right or hers to be in
the United States. I got her talking, to show off her California accent. I used
"abowt" rather than "aboot" to demonstrate my Midwestern accent.

"She should have a photo I.D.," said the officer, as he grudgingly waved us
through.

In many countries, citizens have to carry national identification cards, but we
Americans have always resisted the idea as an infringement of our liberties.
Now, frustration at our inability to stop illegal immigration may outweigh our
suspicion of know-it-all government.

The idea of a computer registry combining Social Security and Immigration and
Naturalization Service data was endorsed this month by an immigration reform
commission headed by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, no civil rights slouch.

The federal advisory commission suggested a three-year pilot program in
California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois to test the best way to check
job applicants' legal status.

The current system has boosted the counterfeiting business, but has done little
to discourage immigrants from entering illegally. Employers are required to ask
all job applicants for evidence of citizenship or legal residency. A variety of
documents can be used; it's easy to beat the system with phony papers.

Under the registry proposal, the states could test various ways to tap into a
federal data base. One idea is to make a "tamperproof" Social Security card a
sort of job credit card; the employer would telephone to verify legal status.
"If I felt that what we are recommending would be such an intrusion I can assure
you that recommendation would never have seen the light of day, not even as a
pilot program," Jordan told the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Despite Jordan's reputation, civil liberties and most ethnic-interest groups
strongly oppose the idea.

Business groups are more favorable. This month, criminal charges of hiring
illegal workers were filed against a woman who managed a chain of Southern
California medical clinics serving Spanish-speakers. Each of the 16 counts
carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Leticia
Ruiz was accused of accepting her workers' counterfeit green card and Social
Security cards, knowing they were false.

Employers also face penalties if they discriminate against job applicants who
"look foreign" or speak with an accent.

A computer registry would take employers off the hook, and could reduce
discrimination against legal immigrants.

However, there'd be a high potential for chaos if the information isn't
accurate. Creating a bug-free registry is not a trivial job, nor a cheap one.
But I'm less worried that the computer registry won't work efficiently than I am
that it will work efficiently.

In its simplest form, the registry would only check to see if two names were
claiming the same Social Security number. This would make it a bit harder for
undocumented workers -- and for every woman who changes her name when she gets
married or divorced.

The work registry couldn't work reliably unless Americans are issued Social
Security cards with photos, and probably fingerprints, to prove that the card
matched the person. That would cost billions of dollars, critics say.

Once the identity card is developed, it's hard to believe it would be used only
for one purpose. What about tracking parents who owe child support? That would
be popular. So would using the card to check on welfare claimants.

A cousin of mine is working on technology that will let the cop who stops you
for running a stoplight get your fingerprint on his handheld computer and zip it
to a national computer that will respond within seconds with your criminal
record (if any).

Actually, the technology is ready to go. We haven't yet got the databases
storing information on everyone's record. When we do, it will be easy to keep
criminals from falling through the cracks. But it makes me nervous to live in a
country with no cracks at all.

Maybe I watched too many episodes of "The Fugitive" when I was a kid. Remember
how he'd show up in a new town, take a new name, get a new job. When they remade
"The Fugitive" as a movie, there was none of that. It would be too implausible
in the 1990s. For one thing, the modern Fugitive would need to show an employer
proof of citizenship or legal residency in order to get a job.

Computers are wonderfully efficient at keeping track of outlaws and scofflaws,
but there should be corners in society where the government's eyes don't reach.
In our zeal to deny work to undocumented immigrants, we are putting our own
rights in jeopardy.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: SIGNE WILKINSON -- PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWS
940815 ED 7B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 22, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL STATUS PLAGUES TOP STUDENT HE CAME FROM MEXICO 14 YEARS AGO AND
GRADUATED AS VALEDICTORIAN. NOW A JUDGE WILL DECIDE WHETHER HE CAN CONTINUE
STUDYING.

BYLINE: AMANDA COVARRUBIAS, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Rafael Ibarra enjoyed his freshman year at the University of Chicago.

Whether or not he returns as a sophomore is up to a federal immigration judge.

Ibarra, 20, graduated from high school last year as his class valedictorian with
a 4.6 grade-point average. But when offers of acceptance and full scholarships
came flooding in from top colleges around the country, his secret became public:

He was an illegal immigrant.

A deportation hearing is scheduled for Sept. 29 to determine whether Ibarra can
stay in the United States, where he has lived for 14 years, or be forced to
return to his native Mexico.

He is optimistic about the outcome. He has a plane ticket to Chicago reserved
for Oct. 1.

"I'm between a rock and a hard place," Ibarra said. "I want to become
independent. I don't want to live off the system."

Because Ibarra is a Mexican citizen, college officials told him he must apply as
an international student. But the U.S. government refused his application for an
international student visa, saying he didn't qualify because he had attended
U.S. schools.

"The doors were being shut," Ibarra said, despite the acceptance notices from
Princeton and Brown universities and Occidental College.

Then the University of Chicago said it would take him anyway. Ibarra enrolled on
the condition that he become a legal resident.

Throughout his elementary and high school years, no one had known Ibarra was an
illegal immigrant. His family had made sporadic attempts to get legal status
over the years, but those fell through because of lack of money or know-how.

A few days after his June 1993 graduation from Point Loma High School, Ibarra
took the only step then open to him -- turning himself in to the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Ibarra, who studies biochemistry, was given permission to live in the United
States legally while awaiting his court date.

At the hearing, a judge will weigh several factors, including the hardship that
deportation would create and how well Ibarra has assimilated. There's also a
seven-year residency requirement, which Ibarra easily meets.

He left Morelia, Mexico, in the state of Michoacan 14 years ago with his mother,
Esther, and older sister.

Ibarra's situation is not without precedent. In May, an INS judge in San
Francisco granted permanent residency to Servando Molina Garcia, 22, saying the
high school co-valedictorian and B-plus student at Stanford University had made
a significant contribution to this country and was likely to continue.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 24, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL RECONSIDERS DEFINITION OF A JEW POTENTIAL FOR HUGE INFLUX CAUSES WORRY

BYLINE: DAN PERRY, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: Jerusalem


Fear that millions of impoverished foreigners may try to make now- prosperous
Israel their home by claiming Jewish ancestry is causing Israelis to reassess
the cardinal question of Zionism: Who, exactly, is a Jew?

Deputy Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin spoke for many Israelis when he called on
legislators Tuesday to amend the Law of Return that allows any applicant with
one Jewish grandparent instant citizenship.

Beilin said the law -- passed in 1950 when the nascent state was destitute and
not a potential draw for non-Jews -- is too liberal now that Israel is a
relatively wealthy, industrialized nation.

"Many people are ready to move to Israel to become instant citizens just by
claiming they are Jews," Beilin said.

Although Beilin was vague on how he would change the law, he received swift
support from both immigration officials and hard-line rabbis long concerned that
lenient immigration policies would weaken Israel's Jewish character.

Others argued that proposals for tinkering with the law smacked of racism.

"(Zionism) drew strength from Jewish solidarity," the Haaretz daily said in a
commentary. "But now we suddenly remember that a distant tribe . . . is
dark-skinned and emerges from the jungle."

Uri Gordon, head of immigration for the quasiofficial Jewish Agency, told the
Associated Press that he would propose limiting immigration rights to those with
a Jewish parent.

"The 12 million recognized Jews who still live outside Israel are enough for
me," said Gordon.

Those Jews recognized by the Jewish Agency, which is devoted to immigration,
include about 6 million in the United States, 2 million in the former Soviet
Union, more than 1 million in Western Europe, and sizable populations in
Argentina, South Africa and Australia.

The assault on the law, which was designed to guarantee a safe haven to
survivors of the Nazi Holocaust, appears to have been sparked by recent reports
that as many as 300 million Indians could claim links to the ancient tribe of
Menashe. The Bible says it is one of 10 exiled from ancient Israel in 722 B.C. A
sizable immigration from India would cause demographic upheaval in Israel, whose
4.5 million Jews are evenly divided between the dominant European-descended
Ashkenazim and the Sephardim, or Jews of Middle Eastern origin.

According to reports, hundreds of thousands of Indians have approached the
Israeli Embassy in New Delhi for applications.

In a statement faxed to the Associated Press, the Indian Embassy in Israel
denounced the reports as "sheer exaggeration."

But potential immigrants of debatable Jewishness are found across the globe.
There are reports that up to one-third of the 600,000 former Soviet citizens
whom Israel has been struggling to absorb over the past four years are not
Jewish.

The Israeli government, acting on Zionist ideologies, brought more than 20,000
Ethiopian Jews to Israel in two operations in 1984 and 1991.

Now, there is disagreement over whether to accept hundreds of thousands of
distant relatives of Israel's Ethiopians who are Christian but also claim Jewish
roots or immigration rights on the basis of family reunification.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 30, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GAY MAN WHO WAS GIVEN ASYLUM DIES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


The first person granted asylum by a U.S. immigration officer because of sexual
orientation, a Mexican who said police in his native land harassed and raped
him, has died of AIDS-related complications, his lawyer said Monday.

Ariel Da Silva, 36, died last week in a Los Angeles hospital, five months after
the ruling in his favor by an immigration hearing officer, said attorney Marc
Van Der Hout.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 13, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RAFT OF PROBLEMS DECISION ON CUBAN VISAS MERELY BUYS TIME FOR WASHINGTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 339 words


THE U.S.-Cuba agreement on immigration is a place-holder. It at best has bought
time for Washington to regroup and decide what else to do about the problems on
the other side of the Florida Straits.

Under the new immigration agreement, the United States will provide at least
20,000 visas for Cubans each year. In return, the Cuban government has promised
to stop the balseros from launching into the Caribbean headed for Florida.

Under regular immigration law, Cuba, like most other countries, potentially
could win 28,000 visas in fiscal 1994 -- the same number any country could win
-- plus an unlimited number of rarely granted exceptional visas. The complicated
system of preferences and quotas, and the distribution of visas around the world
on a first-come, first-served basis, meant that only a couple of thousand Cubans
actually got visas each year.

Under the new agreement, Washington has promised to allow thousands of future
visa applicants from Cuba to leapfrog over other people around the world who are
waiting for visas. Plus, for this year only, everyone already on the waiting
list will get a visa.

The new policy falls far short of ideal. It's good to be rid of the old
open-arms policy for every Cuban balsero who managed to wash up on Florida's
shores. Yet Cubans still will be favored immigrants, for political reasons, for
an unspecified period of time. That kind of special exception has made mincemeat
of sensible U.S. immigration law.

Washington is hoping that the prospect of easier legal immigration might
convince some of the nearly 30,000 Cuban refugees hunkered down at the U.S.
naval base at Guantanamo Bay to return to Cuba. The administration has said only
that it might talk to Cuba about common interests -- such as the U.S. trade
embargo -- if Cuban President Fidel Castro takes unspecified steps toward
democratizing his government and freeing state-controlled markets. Why waste
time? It would be more direct, and more threatening to Castro, to simply lift
the embargo now.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 24, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TOMAS FABREGAS, AIDS ACTIVIST

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 428 words


Tomas Fabregas, who campaigned against immigration policy barring AIDS patients
from the United States, died Thursday in his Oakland home. He was 36. Mr.
Fabregas succumbed to complications related to acquired immune deficiency
syndrome, said his partner, Jeffrey Brooks.

In a challenge delivered at the International Conference on AIDS in Amsterdam in
1992, Mr. Fabregas announced that he was HIV-positive and dared officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to bar his re-entry to the United States.
"If I present a threat to the health of the people in America, you have to keep
me out," he said. "If you don't, you're not doing your job. If I don't a present
a threat, then it's political."

A week later when he flew back to San Francisco International Airport, INS
officials denied knowledge of Mr. Fabregas' challenge. He and Brooks were
cleared through a customs gate separated from the rest of the flight's
passengers, Brooks said.

"He tested them, and he did it publicly," Brooks said. "We could have been
deported."

Instead, a welcome-home party greeted them, and San Francisco Mayor Frank Jordan
proclaimed the day, "Tomas Fabregas Day." In a separate news conference, actress
Elizabeth Taylor denounced the immigration policy.

Mr. Fabregas began his full-time advocacy for the right of people who are
HIV-positive to immigrate and travel freely while he was earning his master's
degree at the University of California, Berkeley.

A native of Spain, he had immigrated to the United States in 1979 and enrolled
in Hunter College, where he earned his bachelor's degree in computer science. He
learned he had the human immunodeficiency virus while at UC- Berkeley, took a
semester off and then went back to complete his degree.

Mr. Fabregas was on the board of directors of the Healing Alternative
Foundation, a buyers' club that makes unapproved drugs available to AIDS
patients. For the AIDS activist group ACT-UP, his concentration was on
immigration. He belonged to the board of the San Francisco AIDS Foundation.

"He worked very hard to empower people with AIDS," Brooks said.

(box)Born: May 26, 1958, La Coruna, Spain.

(box)Died: Sept. 22, 1994, Oakland, Calif.

(box)Survived by: Partner, Jeffrey Brooks of Oakland; mother, Martirio Fabregas;
sisters, Ana, Teresa, Maria de los Angeles Fabregas of Spain.

(box)Services: Memorial pending.

(box)Memorial: Donations may be made to AEGIS (AIDS Education General
Information Service), c/o The Sisters of St. Elizabeth, Box 184, San Juan
Capistrano, Calif. 92683.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Tomas Fabregas
940924 LO 6B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 6, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL HELP FLAP BURIES TRUTH

BYLINE: JEFF GOTTLIEB AND LAURA KURTZMAN,Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: Palm Springs


As Dianne Feinstein and Michael Huffington pummeled each other Saturday over the
illegal help they each once employed, their turbocharged rhetoric threatened to
drown out the truth behind each incident.

"Congressman Huffington admits he broke federal immigration law," announces the
ad Feinstein is running this weekend. "Dianne Feinstein broke no federal
immigration laws."

"The Associated Press now proves Feinstein lied -- flat out lied" when she said
she had never employed an illegal worker, Huffington's weekend ad declares.

But with the addition Saturday of a few tantalizing new pieces of detail, the
distinctions between the two cases became sharper still.

Huffington 10 days ago admitted violating federal law by employing an illegal
nanny. Feinstein's hiring of an illegal housekeeper did not violate federal law.
What remains unclear in her case is whether she knew her former housekeeper was
illegal. She has denied having such knowledge, but if she did then she may have
broken state law.

Documents in question

Feinstein hired Annabella del Rosario Legrand Cabrera Realegeno, a Guatemalan
national, as her housekeeper in March 1980. Feinstein says Realegeno showed
documents indicating she could work legally for Feinstein, but the Immigration
and Naturalization Service revealed Friday that Realegeno had no such valid
documents. Realegeno had entered the United States from Guatemala in November
1979, under a visa that allowed her to stay for a year to work only in her
country's San Francisco consulate.

"Whether her visa expired or not, I have no way of knowing," Feinstein said in
West Hollywood Saturday. "I cannot tell you what it was that she handed me
except that it was documentation."

Jim Mayock, a San Francisco immigration attorney, said INS policies on
documentation were so inconsistent in the 1980s that it is impossible to know
what Feinstein may have seen. It is possible an expiration date was included in
the woman's passport, but also possible that no date was written there.

Under laws in place in the early 1980s, Feinstein was not required to ask for
any documentation, and she broke no federal law by hiring an illegal worker.

Did she know?

However, she may have violated the state labor code if she hired the woman
knowing that she was an illegal immigrant.

Feinstein provided W-2 forms that showed she paid taxes for her housekeeper in
1980 and 1981. She said she could not find the 1982 records. Realegeno left
Feinstein's employ in 1982.

Is Feinstein telling the truth when she says she had no idea Realegeno was
illegal? On Saturday, Huffington released a letter Feinstein wrote to the INS in
1988 to support Realegeno's application for permanent residency. "Annabella's
immigration status has been somewhat mixed up during the years, and I have
always tried to help her get it straightened out," Feinstein wrote.

Huffington says this proves Feinstein knew Realegeno's true immigration status.
Her campaign director, Kam Kuwata, said, "The letter proves nothing. It means
that when she needed help, Dianne tried to help her."

One thing is clear

If parts of the Feinstein situation remain as murky as unfiltered apple juice,
the details of Huffington's hiring of an illegal immigrant are as clear as
Evian.

When initially asked whether he had ever employed an illegal immigrant,
Huffington said, "Not to my knowledge."

But shortly thereafter, he acknowledged that he and his wife employed a Mexican
woman, Marisela Garcia, as a nanny for their two daughters from 1989 through
1993. He said that when he found out she was in the country illegally, he
repeatedly told his wife to fire her. She didn't.

The couple did not pay the appropriate taxes for the first 13 months Garcia
worked for them. Last week, the Huffingtons paid more than $10,000 in back state
and federal taxes, penalties and interest. They say that is how much they owe.
By employing Garcia, Huffington violated the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control
Act, which requires employers to verify their employees are here illegally and
have permission to work. He has acknowledged that he broke that law, and the INS
is now investigating.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994 See also related story on this page.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Feinstein
941106 FR 26A 3
PHOTO: Huffington
941106 FR 26A 4

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 9, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEINSTEIN-HUFFINGTON RACE REMAINS TOO CLOSE TO CALL U.S. SENATE

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 1EL

LENGTH: 1099 words


The most expensive congressional race in history was still too close to call
early today as Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Michael Huffington remained within
a few percentage points of one another.

Recent polls had given Feinstein, the incumbent Democrat, a small lead over
Huffington, a first-term congressman from Santa Barbara. But that lead
evaporated in the early returns as voters flocked to the polls to vote
Republican. The two were dead even as of 1 a.m.

Appearing before his supporters at about 11:30 p.m. Tuesday, Huffington said,
"It is clear watching what's happening across the country that the Republicans
are having an unbelievable victory in 1994."

Half an hour later, Feinstein spoke to her supporters, calling the race a
"cliffhanger."

"Two years ago you said, 'Go to Washington and make a difference for
California,' and we have," she said. "Now we just have to be patient and I'll
see you all in the morning."

Huffington was widely ridiculed for breaking federal immigration law by hiring a
Mexican nanny. But an Associated Press exit poll showed he was helped by his
support of Proposition 187, the anti-illegal immigrant measure that was winning
big in early returns.

Feinstein, who also once hired an illegal immigrant but did not break the
federal immigration law, opposed Proposition 187 and that stand appeared to hurt
her.

Tim Hodson, director of the Center for California Studies at the University of
California, Sacramento, said Feinstein also was hurt because she was the office
holder, even though she has been in the Senate only since 1992.

"There is an anti-incumbent feeling that is not making any distinctions whether
the incumbent has been there for 20 years or whether the incumbent has been
there for two years," Hodson said. He added that Feinstein's record of
accomplishment was not enough to match Huffington's unprecedented spending on
negative 30-second television spots.

"As a candidate she made a major mistake by not responding to Congressman
Huffington's negative ads in the primary," Hodson said. "Any time that you allow
charges and attacks to go totally unanswered, you're running into problems."

At Feinstein's election night headquarters in San Francisco late Tuesday, a live
band was rocking, but Feinstein's backers looked tense as television screens
cataloged the Democratic political casualties across the country.

The opposite was true in Orange County, where hundreds of Huffington supporters
were giddily cheering speeches by some of California's most right- wing
politicians. To wild applause, Rep. Bob Dornan crowed that Republicans were
taking over the House and would bring America "back to God, family and country."

By 10 p.m., the congressman ceded the microphone to a man singing "Born Free."

The exit poll was based on at least 1,561 interviews with voters outside
precincts around the state and was conducted by Voter News Service, a
cooperative of four television networks and the Associated Press.

It found that voters who chose Feinstein did so because she had more experience,
understood the state better and could manage the economy better than Huffington,
according to the exit poll. But those who cared more about crime and illegal
immigration favored Huffington. Roughly two-thirds of those who voted for
Proposition 187 also voted for Huffington.

Voters also were unhappy with the extravagant level of spending in the $40
million Senate race, which was driven by Huffington's willingness to spend his
family fortune. Most voters said both candidates spent too much money, although
voters who singled out one candidate's spending as more egregious criticized
Huffington 3-1.

The contest sparked national media coverage as Huffington, a virtual political
unknown, broke spending records to catch up to Feinstein, who began the race as
the most popular politician in the state.

But polls showed voters were turned off by the negative tone of the campaign,
which got nasty in early summer, months before political campaigns usually start
pouring millions into television and radio attack ads.

As election day approached, both politicians were suffering from low approval
ratings. Feinstein, acclaimed as an effective freshman senator, began the race
28 points ahead. But after a barrage of negative ads, Huffington managed to
nearly double her unfavorable ratings and pull almost even in the polls until
late October, when Feinstein edged ahead again.

By drawing on his personal fortune from the family natural gas exploration firm,
Huffington made this the most expensive congressional race in history. Together,
the candidates spent, more than $36 million. Huffington spent more than $25
million of his own money.

Huffington began early, airing commercials that touted the "Three Strikes"
ballot initiative and conservative ideologue William Bennett's "The Book of
Virtues." But what moved him up in the polls were a series of attacks on
Feinstein's record, including her vote for the Clinton budget, which raised some
taxes in addition to cutting the federal deficit.

Like Republican challengers across the country, Huffington attacked his opponent
as a "career politician" in the pocket of special interests. He also accused
Feinstein of voting for liberal judges who were "soft on crime" and for
supporting a resolution to allow illegal immigrants to take "sanctuary" in San
Francisco when she was that city's mayor.

Huffington pitched himself to the voters as a small-government conservative who
would cut bureaucratic regulations and lower taxes.

Feinstein ran on her record. In public appearances, she pointed out her
legislative accomplishments and showcased endorsements from an array of public
officials. Among them were several heavy-hitting Republicans, including Los
Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan and businessman Peter Ueberroth.

On TV, Feinstein answered Huffington's attacks in kind, calling him a
"carpetbagger" from Texas with no record of accomplishment in either business or
politics. Without providing evidence, she also raised questions about whether
Huffington had paid California taxes in the years when he first took up
residence in California.

But probably her most effective attack was on the nanny issue that surfaced two
weeks before election day. Feinstein called Huffington a lawbreaker for hiring
an illegal immigrant to care for his two young children.

Those attacks came back to haunt her last week, when it was revealed that
Feinstein had employed an illegal immigrant from Guatemala as a housekeeper in
the early 1980s.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994
Mercury News staff writers Michael Dorgan and Jeff Gottlieb contributed to this
report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS - MERCURY NEWS
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, left, casts her ballot Tuesday at a home in San
Francisco's Presidio Heights. The incumbent Democrat's small lead in the polls
over Republican Rep. Michael Huffington evaporated as early returns rolled in
Tuesday evening.
941109 SS 7EL 1
PHOTO: MICHAEL RONDOU - MERCURY NEWS
U.S. Rep. Michael Huffington and his wife, Arianna, respond to the cheers of
supporters Tuesday night in Los Angeles.
941109 SS 7EL 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

            November 9, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL STREET EDITION

FEINSTEIN, HUFFINGTON GO TO THE WIRE MOST COSTLY CONGRESSIONAL RACE EVER
REMAINED TOO CLOSE TO TELL WHO WON

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 7EL

LENGTH: 801 words


The most expensive congressional race in history was too close to call late
Tuesday as Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Michael Huffington remained within a
few percentage points of one another.

Recent polls had given Feinstein, the incumbent Democrat, a small lead over
Huffington, a first-term congressman from Santa Barbara. But that lead
evaporated in the early returns as voters flocked to the polls to vote
Republican.

Appearing before his supporters around 11:30 p.m., Huffington said, "It is clear
watching what's happening across the country that the Republicans are having an
unbelievable victory in 1994."

Widely ridiculed

Huffington was widely ridiculed for breaking federal immigration law by hiring a
Mexican nanny. But an Associated Press exit poll showed he was helped by his
support of Proposition 187, the anti-illegal immigrant measure that was winning
big in early returns.

Feinstein, who also once hired an illegal immigrant but did not break the
federal immigration law, opposed Proposition 187 and that stand appeared to hurt
her.

Tim Hodson, director of the Center for California Studies at the University of
California, Sacramento, said Feinstein also was hurt because she was the
officeholder, even though she has been in the Senate since 1992.

"There is an anti-incumbent feeling that is not making any distinctions whether
the incumbent has been there for 20 years or whether the incumbent has been
there for two years," Hodson said. He added that Feinstein's record of
accomplishment was not enough to match Huffington's unprecedented spending on
negative 30-second television spots.

"As a candidate, she made a major mistake by not responding to Congressman
Huffington's negative ads in the primary," Hodson said. "Any time that you allow
charges and attacks to go totally unanswered, you're running into problems."

At Feinstein's election night headquarters in San Francisco late Tuesday, a live
band was rocking, but Feinstein's backers looked tense as television screens
cataloged the Democratic political casualties across the country.

Giddily cheering

The opposite was true in Orange County, where hundreds of Huffington supporters
were giddily cheering speeches by some of California's most right- wing
politicians. To wild applause, Rep. Bob Dornan crowed that Republicans were
taking over the House and would bring America "back to God, family and country."

By 10 p.m., the congressman ceded the microphone to a man singing "Born Free."

The exit poll was based on at least 1,561 interviews with voters outside
precincts around the state and was conducted by Voter News Service, a
cooperative of four television networks and the Associated Press.

It found that voters who chose Feinstein did so because she had more experience,
understood the state better and could manage the economy better than Huffington.
But those who cared more about crime and illegal immigration favored Huffington.
Roughly two-thirds of those who voted for Proposition 187 also voted for
Huffington.

Voters also were unhappy with the extravagant level of spending in the $40
million Senate race, which was driven by Huffington's willingness to spend his
family fortune. Most voters said both candidates spent too much money, although
voters who singled out one candidate's spending as more egregious criticized
Huffington by a 3-1 ratio.

The contest sparked national media coverage as Huffington, a virtual political
unknown, broke spending records to catch up to Feinstein, who began the race as
the most popular politician in the state.

But polls showed voters were turned off by the negative tone of the campaign,
which got nasty in early summer, months before political campaigns usually start
pouring millions into television and radio attack ads.

As Election Day approached, both politicians were suffering from low approval
ratings. Feinstein, acclaimed as an effective freshman senator, began the race
28 points ahead. But after a barrage of negative ads, Huffington managed to
nearly double her unfavorable ratings and pull almost even in the polls until
late October, when Feinstein edged ahead again.

By drawing on his personal fortune from the family natural gas exploration firm,
Huffington made this the most expensive congressional race in history. Together,
the candidates spent more than $36 million. Huffington spent more than $25
million of his own money.

Huffington began early, airing commercials that touted the "three strikes,
you're out" ballot initiative and conservative ideologue William Bennett's "The
Book of Virtues." But what moved him up in the polls was a series of attacks on
Feinstein's record, including her vote for the Clinton budget, which raised some
taxes in addition to cutting the federal deficit.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994
U.S. SENATE
Mercury News staff writers Michael Dorgan and Jeff Gottlieb contributed to this
report.

GRAPHIC: Chart, Photos (2);
CHART: UNITED STATES SENATOR
BY COUNTY AND REGION
Chart not taken in database
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS - MERCURY NEWS
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein left, casts her ballot Tuesday at a home in San
Francisco's Presidio Heights. The incumbent Democrat's small lead in the polls
over Republican Rep. Michael Huffington evaporated as early returns rolled in
Tuesday evening.
941109 SS 7EL FS 1
PHOTO: MICHAEL RONDOU - MERCURY NEWS
U.S. Rep. Michael Huffington and his wife, Arianna, respond to the cheers of
supporters Tuesday night in Los Angeles.
941109 SS 7EL FS 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 10, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEDICAL EFFECTS OF PROP. 187 FEARFUL PATIENTS SKIP APPOINTMENTS AS SOUTH BAY
CLINICS AWAIT STATE GUIDELINES

BYLINE: DONNA ALVARADO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 594 words


Although a Los Angeles judge gave them some breathing room, leaders of community
health clinics in the South Bay on Wednesday were anxious, and some defiant, as
they registered shock over the passage of Proposition 187.

Worried patients canceled appointments or called to see if they would get
reported to immigration officials if they came in, clinic directors reported.
But clinics in the South Bay all said they would keep their doors open --
without questions -- until legal challenges determine the future of Proposition
187, which orders clinics to deprive illegal immigrants of all but emergency
medical care.

"It's pretty devastating for us," said Roy Jimenez, vice president of community
health at the Family Health Foundation of Alviso. "We had a whole bunch of
cancellations. Usually mornings are jammed with moms and kids. This morning, it
was unusually quiet."

While clinics and hospitals worried about Proposition 187, Gov. Pete Wilson
ordered state officials to begin drawing up emergency guidelines to implement
the measure. He advised health care and other social service providers to wait
for the guidelines before turning people away.

Wilson did issue an order Wednesday directing health care providers to stop
providing medical care to illegal immigrants in two main areas: prenatal care to
pregnant women and long-term care. But it won't take effect because of a federal
court order blocking Proposition 187 until a hearing next week.

Clinic administrator Jimenez estimated about 200 women would be cut off from
prenatal care at the Alviso Foundation clinics if these regulations were
implemented. He stressed, however, that the clinic would not follow the
regulations until the many legal questions surrounding them were resolved.

One San Jose clinic vowed it would not comply with Proposition 187 now -- or
ever.

"I believe our board will make that stand," said John Grima, executive director
of the East Valley Community Clinic, a private non-profit clinic in San Jose.
"There's really no other option for us."

Trying to verify whether patients have legal or illegal status would be an
"incredible administrative nightmare," Grima said. "That would drive our costs
way up. It would close us down."

Sam Maestas, executive director of the Gardner Health Center in downtown San
Jose, said Proposition 187 was "total insanity. It's just punishing the wrong
group of people, including kids."

At least two statewide medical groups planned to file additional legal
challenges to Proposition 187 once they receive and review the emergency
regulations to be issued by state health officials.

A spokeswoman for the California Medical Association said the group would file a
legal challenge to the proposition within a week. "The 'snitching' requirements
of Proposition 187 will backfire by preventing many undocumented immigrants from
seeking medical care for communicable diseases, such as tuberculosis and
hepatitis," said Dr. Ralph R. Ocampo, president of the medical group. "Without
treatment and effective public health tracking, these diseases will further
spread into the population. Diseases do not carry green cards."

One legal observer said the proposition could place many non-profit community
clinics in financial jeopardy if they are forced to comply, because state
Medi-Cal funding for pregnant women was a substantial source of their income.
"That could be a serious economic blow to many community clinics in the state,"
said Carmella Castellano, director of the Latino Coalition for Healthy
California.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Proposition 187

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
Dolores Amador and daughter Nancy, 9, listen to returns showing Proposition 187
passing.
941110 FR 17A 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 17, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO RESUME HAITIAN DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: ANDRES VIGLUCCI, Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: Miami


After a year's moratorium, U.S. immigration authorities have quietly decided to
resume deporting Haitians who entered the country illegally, saying the
restoration of democracy to Haiti now makes it safe for them to go home.

In Florida, 1,358 Haitians face deportation.

The decision could have far broader impact if it signals a belief by U.S.
officials that political violence in Haiti has decreased to the point where the
country is generally safe.

That view could make it harder for 14,800 Haitians who have applied for asylum
in Florida to demonstrate a "well-founded fear of persecution," the legal
standard for obtaining refuge in the United States.

Some immigration judges and INS trial attorneys already are taking a tougher
stance when reviewing asylum claims, asserted Cheryl Little, an attorney for
Florida Rural Legal Services in Miami. She cited several recent cases in which
judges turned down asylum claims by noting the return of democratically elected
Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service suspended the deportation of Haitian
aliens in October of last year, citing turmoil in their homeland. During the
past year, the moratorium was extended when the international embargo halted all
flights to Haiti.

INS officials decided to lift the moratorium after the U.S. military occupation
that restored President Aristide and the subsequent resumption of flights, said
agency spokesman Lemar Wooley.

The agency made no public announcement of the change. Word got out after a
Haitian immigrant was detained at the Krome Detention Center near Miami this
week for deportation after he visited INS offices in Miami for a routine
inquiry.

The INS said the decision affects those who have final deportation orders from
an immigration judge -- which means they have exhausted all legal appeals to
stay.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 30, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO ROOM AT THE INN FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 307 words


On Christmas Eve at the Spanish-speaking midnight mass at Sacred Heart parish, a
very special rendition of the traditional "Las Posadas" was performed.

In this post-Proposition 187 political climate, the Virgin Mary and Joseph
wandered through city streets seeking refuge but were barred from entering the
hospital and the school for lack of documentation. The choir narrated Mary and
Joseph's plight in song and verse, as a pair of menacing red-caped devils
spurned and taunted them.

The parody and symbolism appeared to resonate strongly with the hundreds of
churchgoers, who joined forces with the choir and burst into applause at the
skit's conclusion.

It is both appropriate and critical that the churches, unions and community
groups that fought the passage of 187 continue to stand up against the inhumane
politics that fueled it. Immigrant bashing marches on with the GOP's current
legislative proposal to bar legal immigrants from eligibility from such vital
federal programs as Childhood Immunization and Medicaid ("Benefits for legal
immigrants targeted," Page One, Dec. 24).

For those who voted for 187 to, as Gov. Wilson counseled, "send a message," the
message was received. And now Republicans are going after both legal and
undocumented immigrants with a renewed sense of viciousness. If the GOP federal
legislation is approved, legally documented workers, even those who have worked
and paid their taxes in the U.S. for decades, would be denied access to
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) if they were to become disabled.

In our country, which was built by immigrant labor, the GOP is deciding whose
rights are dispensable. And the pool is getting bigger. So, sing loud Sacred
Heart. Sing strong. There's rough road ahead. May you be accompanied by a
growing number of voices.

-- Lisa Hoyos

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
SILVER PEN AWARD

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 9, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT UNREALITY THOSE ON-THE-DOLE SCARE STORIES ARE SELDOM ACCURATE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 421 words


IMAGINE this immigrant story: A Mexican national living and working legally in a
San Jose restaurant sponsors his mother's move here and, following U.S.
immigration policy, agrees to support her. Everything is fine for several years
until she falls seriously ill. Gradually, he reneges on his sponsorship pledge,
and his mother becomes totally dependent on American taxpayers.

It's easy to outrage taxpayers with stories like that. But they don't reflect
the reality of most legal immigrants.

There is no evidence of widespread abandonment of elderly immigrants by their
sponsors, according to the non-partisan Commission on Immigration Reform. Yet
some members of the House of Representatives, citing alleged abuses, wish to bar
most legal immigrants from 60 federal safety net programs, from immunizations
and school lunches for the young to Medicaid and food stamps for the old.

There's a growing impression that immigrants start collecting welfare almost
immediately. Wrong. They use less government aid, commit fewer crimes and have
higher rates of self-employment than citizens, according to several independent
studies verified by the Urban Institute think tank in Washington. Immigrants
aren't eligible for welfare for up to five years after they arrive unless their
sponsors die, become ill or become poor themselves.

Some House Republicans say they could save $22 billion over five years by
restricting supplemental retirement aid, Medicaid, food stamps and other
programs to citizens only. They'd use the money to pay for welfare reform, but
doing so at the expense of the weakest legal immigrants -- kids and old folk --
would be unfair and cruel. Immigrants pay taxes and should be eligible for the
public programs their tax dollars help pay for.

The proposal also would threaten the public health. Denying immigrant kids free
vaccinations at school would only give the green light for measles and other
childhood diseases to spread, raising the danger to all children.

Using immigration reform as a back door to welfare reform is unwise. They're
separate issues and should be dealt with separately.

But there are ways to deal with abuses of immigration law. Congress should adopt
a recommendation from the immigration reform commission to beef up the
enforcement of sponsorship pledges. That would be a fair way to cut down on
abuse of the system without denying basic levels of help for people who followed
the rules to get here but fell on hard times, through no fault of their own.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               January 27, 1995 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

FREMONT WOMAN PLEADS GUILTY IN IMMIGRATION FRAUD SCHEME

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


A Fremont woman pleaded guilty to conspiracy Thursday in an immigration fraud
scheme that produced between 300 and 1,200 phony applications for legal status,
federal prosecutors said.

Emma Rosella D' Fiandra charged as much as $15,000 to create bogus documents for
immigrants seeking amnesty between 1987 and 1991, said Assistant U.S. Attorney
Steven Gruel. A 1986 federal law allowed illegal immigrants to seek amnesty, the
first step toward legal residency, if they had entered the United States
illegally before 1982 and remained in the country since then.

Gruel said D' Fiandra took elaborate measures to create the appearance that a
recent immigrant had entered before 1982. She created receipts for phantom jobs,
fabricated income tax returns and used a microwave to make documents look older,
he said.

Federal agents who searched her Fremont home in 1991 found 56 counterfeit postal
cancellation stamps from foreign countries, used to back-date letters, as well
as blank birth certificates, Gruel said. He said D' Fiandra also held classes
for 30 to 40 illegal entrants at a time, coaching them on the stories they would
tell immigration officials.

D' Fiandra fled after the search and was arrested two years later in Florida,
Gruel said.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has identified at least 300
people who used D' Fiandra's documents to apply for amnesty, Gruel said. He said
they would be placed in deportation proceedings. D' Fiandra once told an
undercover agent she was responsible for 1,200 amnesty applications, the
prosecutor said.

D' Fiandra, 50, a native of Peru, entered the United States as a visitor in
1978, overstayed her visa and later filed her own fake amnesty application,
Gruel said. He said she faced deportation after completion of her prison
sentence.

Besides conspiracy, D' Fiandra pleaded guilty to two counts of furnishing
counterfeit green cards and Social Security cards. She is to be sentenced April
7 by U.S. District Judge Charles Legge and faces a term of 15 to 24 months under
federal guidelines, Gruel said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 4, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S.-MEXICO TALKS TO ADDRESS IMMIGRATION, LAW ENFORCEMENT NEGOTIATORS TO SEEK
COMMON STRATEGIES

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: Washington


Days after fending off congressional efforts to attach political conditions to
the Mexico rescue package, Clinton administration negotiators plan to discuss
two hot-button issues with Mexican officials later this month: immigration and
law enforcement.

Negotiators plan to meet with authorities in Mexico on Feb. 13 and 15 to explore
ways to curb illegal Mexican migration into the United States and to enhance
cooperation in a range of law-and-order subjects, from extradition to drug
trafficking.

U.S. and Mexican officials say the meetings are part of a continuing series of
talks. The sessions were scheduled before the recent attempts by some U.S.
lawmakers to condition any financial support on greater cooperation from Mexico
on such "non-economic" issues, they said.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said last week that her constituents would not
support the package for Mexico unless it included tough measures to halt illegal
immigration into the state.

"I believe we should not assist Mexico until Mexico agrees to cooperate with the
United States in stemming the tide of illegal immigration into this country,"
she said.

But the effort to tie strings on the rescue package failed when President
Clinton, decrying congressional delays, unilaterally offered Mexico $20 billion
in loans and loan guarantees.

Both the Clinton administration and the government of Mexican President Ernesto
Zedillo Ponce de Leon insist there was no side deal under the new arrangement.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher had discouraged any non- economic
conditions, fearing that Zedillo would face a nationalist backlash at home.

Still, both U.S. and Mexican officials say the Zedillo government is eager to
deepen U.S.-Mexican ties, particularly in the fight against narcotics
traffickers.

"You will get renewed gestures of cooperation," said a top Mexican official, who
asked not to be named.

With the first meeting focusing on immigration, some of the strategies being
examined include:

* Introducing a policy of "interior return," which would allow authorities to
send illegal immigrants all the way home in Mexico. Currently, U.S. border
guards merely deposit immigrants back at the border, enabling them to attempt
the crossing again.

* Expanding elite Mexican police squads that crack down on crimes associated
with illegal immigration. A pioneer force made up of municipal, state and
federal police, known as Grupo Beta, was created in 1990 to combat
people-smuggling rings in the Tijuana area. It has drawn praise as a model that
could be used in other border areas.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related story page 1D

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A man wearing a mask of former Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari on
Friday throws a crate of tomatoes at the entrance to the Mexican Bankers
Association in Mexico City during a protest by a grass-roots farmers group.
950204 FR 10A 1
PHOTO: Zedillo
950204 FR 10A 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 7, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE HALTS PULLING OF WORK PERMITS IN LIMBO: THE MOVE PROTECTS 75,000
IMMIGRANTS FROM IRS ACTION.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 622 words


A federal judge in Sacramento on Monday blocked an order of the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service that would have yanked the work permits of 75,000
immigrants still seeking amnesty under a landmark 1986 law.

Last week, the INS had cabled offices around the country, instructing them to
begin taking away permits from the immigrants as they expire over the next year.
But after a hearing over the telephone pitting INS and immigration rights
attorneys, Judge Lawrence Karlton of the U.S. District Court ordered the INS to
stop implementing its decision, which immigration lawyers had called capricious
and dictatorial.

The 75,000 immigrants had been granted the permits as the result of a lawsuit
filed by Catholic Social Services on behalf of hundreds of thousands of
immigrants who claimed they were misled by the INS during the amnesty process.
"The INS is fortunate we did not seek contempt charges," said Peter Schey,
director of the Center of Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles.
"It just continues their bad faith in dealing with a population that should have
been legalized six years ago. If they had been allowed to do this, the INS would
have become the largest single contributor of an undocumented population --
bigger than all the alien smugglers put together."

INS officials, however, say they're simply trying to close a back door to the
amnesty program, a key part of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.

"We've been delaying this thing for years," said David Still, deputy assistant
director of the INS's San Francisco regional office. "We just wanted it
settled."

The case stems from an often convoluted process that resulted in the
legalization of 2.7 million people -- the overwhelming majority from Mexico and
Central America -- who had entered the country illegally and lived here
continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. About half of those lived in California.

During the 12-month period for applying for amnesty, applicants originally were
told that if they left the country without the INS's written permission, they
were ineligible for the program. But after legal challenges, the INS changed its
mind and decided to allow those people to apply. It did not, however, extend the
May 4, 1988, amnesty deadline.

In the Catholic Social Services suit, attorneys argued that people who had
temporarily returned to their homeland were misled into thinking they couldn't
apply. So, lawyers argued, they should be given a second chance.

After Judge Karlton agreed and his decision was upheld on appeal, the INS began
issuing work permits to people who it felt fell under the lawsuit.

Out of more than 200,000 people who applied, 75,000 were granted permits.

Then, in June 1993, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned lower court orders.
Generally siding with the INS, the high court in effect told Karlton and another
federal judge to allow the immigrants to keep the permits only if they were
blocked from seeking amnesty because of overly rigid INS regulations.

Stephen Rosenbaum, an attorney with California Rural Legal Assistance Inc. in
San Francisco, said the INS and immigrants rights organizations were in the
process of negotiating a compromise when INS officials acted unilaterally Jan.
30.

"They've been chomping at the bit to do this," he said. "It's completely
outrageous. Something like this wreaks havoc in the immigrant community."

Schey said that between last Wednesday and Friday, when he asked for the
judicial stay, "I took 100 calls from people who said their (work authorization)
cards were taken from them on the spot by the INS."

INS attorneys were expected to appeal Karlton's order. They could not be reached
for comment late Monday.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 8, 1995 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS TWICE AS LIKELY TO COLLECT WELFARE, STUDY SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: Washington


Immigrants are nearly twice as likely to collect welfare as citizens,
congressional investigators say in a report likely to fuel debate over
Republican calls to deny welfare to legal immigrants.

The General Accounting Office, the congressional watchdog agency, said 6 percent
of legal immigrants in the United States receive cash welfare, compared to 3.4
percent of citizens.

The total number of immigrants on welfare, however, is much lower than the
number of citizens because legal immigrants represent only about 6 percent of
the U.S. population.

According to the GAO, 1.4 million legal immigrants were collecting either
Supplemental Security Income or Aid to Families with Dependent Children in 1993,
compared with 18.6 million citizens.

The issue of public aid to immigrants has divided the Republican-controlled
Congress as GOP leaders write a bill to dramatically revamp the nation's welfare
system.

Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fla., the chairman of the House Ways and Means subcommittee
that is drafting the legislation, is under pressure from some Republican
lawmakers and governors to drop his plans to cut most legal immigrants from
welfare. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., also has questioned the proposal.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 17, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP AIMS TO SEVERELY LIMIT IMMIGRATION OF RELATIVES

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: Washington


The immigration point man for House Republicans said Thursday that he wants to
sharply curtail the flow of legal immigrants into the United States -- partly by
limiting family members allowed to join legal immigrants already here.

"I don't know where we could cut that off," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R- Texas,
chairman of the House immigration subcommittee. "I do feel we can trim around
the edges and reduce the numbers somewhat. . . . I'm not talking about a
moratorium."

Smith, who will direct the GOP's immigration policy, said he hopes to craft a
bipartisan immigration bill by spring that may seek to cut legal immigration by
as much as 50 percent. He noted that immigration is at record levels.

He said that while he would work to protect the immigration rights of immediate
family members of those who have entered the United States legally, extended
family members and distant relatives would no longer be so welcome.

According to the INS, there were 904,292 legal immigrants to the United States
in 1993, the latest year for which statistics are available.

Smith also said President Clinton's plan to charge crossing fees at U.S. borders
is dead.

"There is not majority support for it," he said. "It's simply not going to
happen."

In his $1.6 trillion budget, submitted to Congress earlier this month, Clinton
called for a $1.50-per-pedestrian and $3-per-vehicle fee for entering the United
States from Mexico and Canada. He said the $400 million raised each year would
pay to improve U.S. border crossings, which can be snarled for hours with
traffic.

But the president's proposal to erect international toll booths was swiftly
denounced by some pro-immigration groups and by business leaders in border
states, who argued a fee would cripple commerce dependent on free entry to the
United States.

Don Mueller, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
the agency had yet to pronounce the border-crossing fee a political casualty.
"It's a critical part of the president's budget," Mueller said. "It would help
add inspectors and automation and improve the whole border process."

Smith said he would push reimbursement to states for costs to incarcerate
illegal immigrants, but did not favor full reimbursement for other
immigration-related costs, such as for education and medical costs.

That places him at odds with some states -- including California and Florida --
and with House Speaker Newt Gingrich. The House speaker has promised either to
fully reimburse states for all immigration costs or to relieve them of the
requirement to provide those services.

Smith said total reimbursement would mean states would lose the incentive to
work to curb illegal immigration.

Clinton has called for a $1 billion increase in INS spending -- money that would
help hire 700 new Border Patrol agents. Smith said he would prefer hiring 1,000
new Border Patrol agents every year for five years to double the size of the
border police force.

Smith also joined three California Republican members of Congress on Thursday in
criticizing Border Patrol efforts to curb illegal immigration at the U.S.-Mexico
border near San Diego.

Reps. Duncan Hunter, Randy Cunningham and Brian Bilbray charged that only a
small fraction of the beefed-up Border Patrol in San Diego -- a program dubbed
Operation Gatekeeper -- had been dispatched directly to the border.

"This gatekeeper needs to be at the gate," Bilbray said.

The Congress members said a similar crackdown in El Paso, Texas, had led to a 73
percent dip in arrests of illegal immigrants there, a sign that fewer immigrants
were trying to cross. But, they said, arrests in the San Diego area, which
dipped by 25 percent immediately after the operation began last fall, are back
on the rise.

If the INS doesn't reallocate its Border Patrol force in California, Smith said,
he will require that it do so through legislation.

Ana Cobian, a Justice Department official, said comparisons between El Paso and
San Diego are illogical for several reasons, including terrain.

"It's easier said than done in San Diego," Cobian said. "El Paso is flat. The
border in San Diego has canyons and hillsides and sloughs. You cannot put 200
agents in a slough."

She said nearly all INS personnel in Southern California were within five miles
of the border.

"In its first four months of implementation, Operation Gatekeeper has been seen
to be successful by the agents in the trenches, by the residents at the border
and by the analysts who researched its effectiveness in the field," the Justice
Department official said. "Gatekeeper is showing an overall decrease in arrests
but illegals are continuing to test our enforcement capacity along the border."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Operation Gatekeeper, the crackdown near San Diego, is considered a success.
950217 FR 6A

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 11, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION OVERTURNED FOR MODERN-DAY JEAN VALJEAN NATIVE OF MEXICO HAS LIVED IN
U.S. 25 YEARS, OWNS BUSINESS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 537 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Federal authorities wanted to deport Salvador Castrejon-Garcia because he once
left the United States for eight days to try to get a visa.

That was too much for a federal appeals court, which overturned Castrejon's
deportation order Friday. The court compared immigration officials to the
fictional policeman whose obsessive chase of a petty thief was chronicled in
Victor Hugo's "Les Miserables."

The effort to deport Castrejon has been a "pursuit worthy of Inspector Javert,"
said the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

Castrejon, a native of Mexico, entered the United States without documentation
in 1970 at age 17 and has never had legal status. However, as a longtime
resident with "good moral character," and with a family that would suffer
hardship with his deportation, he would be eligible to stay except for the
dispute over his eight-day trip, the court said.

An immigration judge made the finding of good character last year despite
Castrejon's 1975 conviction for illegally transporting illegal immigrants within
the United States. He served six months in jail, and later was jailed for 18
months for violating probation by reentering the country.

He remained in the United States after his release, raised a family and started
a business. He now lives in Modesto with his wife and three U.S.-born children
and owns a construction company that employs 10 people.

He first went to Mexico in 1983 to seek a visa, which would allow his legal
entry into the United States, but was turned down by the U.S. consulate in the
mistaken belief that his conviction disqualified him, the court said. He tried
again in 1988 but left after eight days when his wife gave birth earlier than
expected.

He was caught re-entering the country, jailed for 30 days and ordered deported
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. But an immigration judge
suspended his deportation under a law that allows illegal immigrants to become
legal residents if they have been in the U.S. continuously for seven years and
have good character, and if their deportation would cause extreme hardship to
themselves or their family.

However, the law does not protect those who have left the U.S. during the
seven-year period, except for a departure that was "brief, casual and innocent."
The Board of Immigration Appeals ruled in 1993 that Castrejon's eight-day trip
in 1988 was deliberate, not "casual," and ordered him deported.

The appeals court disagreed, saying the board's interpretation "penalizes a
good-faith effort to comply with the immigration laws." The court said
Castrejon's one-time departure was "casual" in the ordinary sense.

"The case is characterized by the remarkable determination of the (INS) and the
board to rid this country of a resident of 25 years' standing whose principal
fault has been his desire to regularize a residence acquired as a youth of 17,"
said Judge John Noonan in the 3-0 decision.

The ruling should entitle Castrejon to stay in the country, said his lawyer,
Ralph Leardo.

"If they're trying to rid the country of undesirable aliens, this is the wrong
place to start," Leardo said. "This fellow is a model resident . . . the kind of
person we want in this country."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 15, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP EASES STANCE ON LEGAL-MIGRANT AID

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: Washington


House Republican leaders, who Tuesday unveiled a revised welfare reform bill,
have decided to allow legal immigrants who have not become citizens much greater
access to federal assistance than they originally proposed.

Non-citizens would still be barred from receiving aid under the five largest
federal programs: Medicaid, food stamps, disability aid, the revamped Aid to
Families With Dependent Children and social-service programs known as "Title
XX." But, unlike legislation approved in recent weeks by House committees, the
new bill would not bar legal immigrants from receiving aid under dozens of other
federal programs, including education and training, lead screening and elderly
assistance.

The revised bill, which was introduced earlier this week, is a consolidated form
of legislation that three committees -- Ways and Means, Economic and Educational
Opportunities, and Agriculture -- have approved in recent weeks. The committees
have voted to overhaul the nation's welfare system, replacing numerous federal
programs with direct cash payments to the states.

Congressional aides said the changes were made in part to allow immigrants
access to programs -- such as employment and training -- that will help them
improve their status. But immigrant-advocacy groups say the change has done
little to soften their opposition to the welfare reform.

"We were completely against the bill as it stood and are completely against it
as it stands," said Robert Almanzan, director of communications for the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund. "It's still unjust."

The "big five" programs from which non-citizens are banned "are the most
substantive programs. It seems un-American to say you can come, you can work,
you can pay taxes, but if you ever become needy, you're denied help," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                March 17, 1995 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

INS EXTENDS DEADLINE FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO RENEW;
GREEN CARDS
BIG RELIEF: OFFICES HAVE BEEN OVERWHELMED WITH
APPLICANTS.

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 663 words


With hordes of people in line for hours and even camping out overnight at its
offices nationwide, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service decided
Thursday to extend the deadline for longtime legal residents to get new green
cards just four days before the cutoff would have hit.

Now, green cards issued to lawful permanent residents before 1979 will remain
valid for one more year.

Even so, INS officials still are urging people to apply for their new cards by
Monday. Otherwise, they said they cannot guarantee that applicants will receive
their replacement cards before the one-year extension expires March 20, 1996.

The extension was greeted with a huge sigh of relief at the San Jose INS office
in the Federal Building, where lines for the past three weeks have snaked all
the way down to the Pavilion Shops, a half-block away.

1,400 people a day in S.J.

The five INS officers there have had to cope with about 1,400 people each day.
They say they are just grateful last week's rain storms have given way to
sunshine this week because their waiting room only holds 120.

"It's been unbelievable," said Bob Ackerman, head of the San Jose office that is
open from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. "We almost had a riot the other day."

Compounding the problem, Ackerman said, crowds of people also have been coming
into INS offices since Congress passed a new law in October allowing certain
people who have overstayed their visas to adjust their status so they can stay
legally.

The INS had tried to cut down on the long lines by allowing people to have their
new green card applications processed at the Portuguese Organization For Social
Service and Opportunities in San Jose and immigration service centers in
Watsonville and Salinas but many families have opted to journey all the way to
the INS office in San Jose instead, Ackerman said.

Filing fee a factor

Although INS officials have chided immigrants for waiting until the last minute
to apply for the new green cards, some immigration rights organizations say
sometimes it cannot be helped, especially when there is a $75 filing fee
involved.

"In San Jose, we have the longest wait for processing citizenship applications
of any INS office in the country," said Jorge Gonzalez, chairman of Raza Si, a
Hispanic rights organization in San Jose. "It's hard for people to scrape
together the money. That's why they're probably just making the deadline. So, it
makes sense to extend the deadline."

Applicants who cannot afford the fee may request a waiver. Elderly and disabled
people who are unable to travel to an INS office may ask for special assistance.

Great anxiety

The deadline had generated great anxiety among the 1 million immigrants affected
nationwide, many of whom are elderly. All are longtime U.S. residents who were
issued their green cards, known technically as Form I-151, at least 16 years
ago.

Those who fail to obtain replacements will lose their all-important proof of
legal status, posing problems upon re-entering the United States, applying for
employment and seeking Social Security or other public benefits.

Some green-card holders could face detention as authorities attempted to verify
their status. But officials say that immigrants will not become "illegal"
because they failed to replace their green cards. There will be no mass arrests
or deportations of immigrants whose cards lapse, authorities say.

Some green-card holders, hoping never to face such INS bureaucracy again, have
simply applied for citizenship instead.

But those who choose to brave the lines for new green cards will receive a much
improved version. The old, easily counterfeited cards will be replaced with
newer, machine-readable ones that contain photographs, fingerprints and
signatures of the bearers.
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

For more information on how to apply for a new green card, or for naturalization
and citizenship, call the INS toll-free number at (800) 755-0777.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times also contributed to this report.
Shorter vesion ran in the Morning Final edition.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 23, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAD RUSH FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP BACKLOG: IMMIGRATION OFFICES ARE SWAMPED WITH
APPLICATIONS.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 885 words


Record numbers of citizenship applications have poured into Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices nationwide after the passage of California's
Proposition 187 and the unveiling of Republican plans to cut off benefits for
legal immigrants.

More than 232,000 citizenship requests flooded the INS from October 1994 to
January 1995 -- an increase of 80 percent over the same period the prior year.
Overall, applications were up 25 percent from 1993 to 1994 across the United
States.

INS offices are so swamped that the processing time for citizenship applications
is now taking longer than a year -- six months more than the previous average.

"We have a tremendous backlog," said Bob Ackerman, head of San Jose's INS
office, which has a 13-month wait. "We are almost overwhelmed at the moment."
California has accounted for a large chunk of the increase, with 192,188
applications submitted in 1994 -- double the number usually filled out in the
state. The San Jose office received 1,323 applications in February -- more than
double the number received the same month last year. In 1994, there was a 64
percent increase locally.

The backlog here is nothing compared with the Los Angeles INS office, which can
only process 600 of the 1,300 applications it receives each day.

Part of the mammoth workload increase was predicted two years ago as more U.S.
residents became eligible for citizenship under the 1986 immigration reform act,
which legalized millions of undocumented workers.

But immigrant-rights groups also point to the current political climate in
explaining the rise in citizenship applications. Disgust with Republican plans
to cut aid to non-citizens, attacks on affirmative action and the support for
Proposition 187, which denies public services to undocumented workers, are all
factors, they say.

Voting-rights advocates say the hundreds of thousands of new immigrant voters
will boost the political muscle of minorities nationwide -- widening the pool of
Asian and Hispanic politicians and pushing candidates to take a more liberal
stand on immigration and race issues.

Change in the body politic

"We are finally going to have the numbers to hold politicians accountable," said
Lydia Camarillo, executive director of the Southwest Voter Registration
Education Project. "We are going to see a change in the political landscape in
towns all across in this country."

The change could be particularly evident in cities like San Jose and Los
Angeles, which have large concentrations of immigrants who up to now have been
ineligible to vote, said Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Center for
Policy Studies in Southern California.

"You'll start seeing many more cities and school boards where the majority of
seats will go to minorities," Pachon said.

In California, where voters tend to be older and white, he said enough
immigrants are becoming naturalized to swing a state election. Historically,
about 80 percent of naturalized citizens register to vote.

'96 presidential vote

The impact of the new immigrant voters could be felt as early as the 1996
presidential election. But it will take three or four years for the full force
of the mad dash to naturalize to be known, Pachon said.

"I jokingly say that (Gov.) Pete Wilson and Prop. 187 have been responsible for
making more Democrats than anything else that has ever happened in the Latino
and Asian communities," he said.

Community groups are struggling to handle the demand for citizenship classes.
Currently, about 330 organizations offer the classes in California -- more than
double the groups providing such services in 1993. But it's still not enough,
said Saeed M. Ali of the U.S. Citizenship Action Network in Los Angeles.

"We can't keep up with the demand," Ali said. "As soon as classes open up, they
fill up."

The network of volunteers hopes to naturalize more than 250,000 immigrants in
California this year. Last year, the network fell just short of reaching its
goal of 200,000 citizens.

Retired farmworker

Maclovia Fernandez, 60, of San Jose, a retired farmworker who came to the United
States in 1966, says she is excited about becoming an American.

Like many other legal immigrants, she thought giving up her Mexican citizenship
would be a betrayal of her native country. She also was apprehensive about
voting in a foreign land, thinking that others would be better informed than
her.

But Proposition 187 changed her mind.

"I realized that I was never going back to Mexico and this is where I need to
make my voice heard," said Fernandez, who has applied for citizenship along with
her daughter Yolanda, 31.

Fernandez said she also was spurred by the possibility of losing her disability
payments if a GOP budget-cutting proposal succeeds in denying benefits to most
legal immigrants.

'Great to be an American'

"They were talking about taking away my only income after having worked most of
my life here," she said in Spanish. "I would be ruined if that happened."

So, now Fernandez is taking citizenship classes at the Eastside Neighborhood
Center on Alum Rock Avenue. Next year, she plans to vote in her first election.
"I wish I had done this long ago," she said. "I recommend that everyone who is
eligible do it. It feels great to be an American."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chart not taken in Database

GRAPHIC: Charts (2);
Chart: CARL NEIBURGER - MERCURY NEWS.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Citizenship applications soar.
950323 FR 14A 2 h. line charts

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 30, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS IN S.J. AREA TREATED UNFAIRLY BY INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 258 words


Jeordan Legon's "Mad rush for U.S. citizenship" (March 23) pointed out the
primary factors pushing naturalization forward: Republican plans to cut off
benefits from taxpaying legal permanent residents, a broad-based immigrant
response to Proposition 187 and the first-time eligibility of immigrants
legalized under the 1986 amnesty program.

At Catholic Charities, the number of low-income citizenship applicants has more
than quadrupled since last August, from about 50 a month to more than 200 a
month.

What the article failed to spell out is that legal residents in the jurisdiction
of the San Jose Immigration and Naturalization Service are getting the short
stick. Applicants from Santa Clara, Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito counties
must wait 390 days before receiving an initial appointment with the INS. The
American Immigration Lawyers Association reports that this is the longest
waiting period in the United States.

Why does a legal resident who happens to live in Salt Lake City, Albuquerque,
Arlington or Chicago get interviewed in less than one quarter of that time (90
days)? Why does a person who lives in Sacramento, Denver or Philadelphia get an
interview in less than a third of the time (120 days)? Whatever happened to the
14th Amendment, which accords all persons equal protection under the laws?

Not only do more resources need to be devoted to this legal right, but the
existing national resources need to be distributed more equitably.

-- Richard Hobbs

Director, Catholic Charities Immigration Program

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MARGARET SCOTT
950330 ED 10B 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 1, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILY-UNITY CASE SETTLED OUT OF COURT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 153 words


In a case affecting roughly 100,000 people nationwide, a sweeping class- action
suit alleging that thousands of immigrant families were illegally being kept
apart was settled out of court Friday by federal officials in Sacramento.
Accepted with praise by U.S. District Court Judge Edward Garcia, the settlement
between the Immigration and Naturalization Service and immigrant-rights lawyers
created new "family-unity" standards in immigration law.

Among the new guidelines is a provision that allows immigrants living
continuously in the United States since May 5, 1988, to return to their home
countries for short visits without fear that their naturalization applications
will be denied.

INS officials had been accused of wrongly rejecting tens of thousands of
families for allegedly not complying with continuous residence provisions in the
so-called family-unity law, established by Congress in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 15, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' CHANCE FOR '96 VOTE IN PERIL INS BACKLOG HOLDING UP CITIZENSHIP
APPLICATIONS

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 894 words


Tens of thousands of immigrants eager to become U.S. citizens may not be
eligible to vote in time for the 1996 presidential election unless remedies are
found to cut the unprecedented backlog at INS offices nationwide.

Already, possible solutions -- an infusion of $40 million to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and a pilot program to waive interviews for some
applicants -- are in the pipeline to end the mammoth wait.

But the situation has peeved citizenship-drive organizers, who have spent months
prodding immigrants to become Americans so they can make their voices heard at
the polls. The delays are seen as particularly bad in San Jose, where the
projected 18-month backup -- three times the norm -- is believed to be the
nation's longest.

"They should have been prepared for this," said Antonio Gonzalez, president of
the Southwest Voter Research Institute in Southern California. "Anybody who
works with any immigrant community knows that there has been a building rush for
citizenship."

The passage of California's Proposition 187, which denies benefits to
undocumented immigrants, and Republican proposals to end aid to legal immigrants
have accelerated the push for citizenship, immigrant-rights groups say.

The groups say Congress is largely to blame for the backlog -- having poured
money into INS enforcement at the U.S.-Mexico border while neglecting
naturalization funding. In 1994, for example, Congress approved only $7 million
of the $30 million the INS requested for citizenship.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner -- who for years has touted the importance of
citizenship -- is expected to ask Congress next week for $40 million to meet the
increased demand. The money would fund 300 more INS positions nationwide, said
Cassie Boothe, an INS official.

But an aide to Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House subcommittee on
immigration, said the congressman may be hesitant to increase the INS budget
because he is concerned about agency waste. Furthermore, Smith's priority is on
border enforcement, not naturalizations, said aide Allen Kay.

"He would not want to take funds for additional INS (border) agents . . . to
fund naturalizations," he said.

Even if Congress approved the increase, it would take at least six months to
hire and train the new staffers. With an October 1996 registration deadline for
voting the following month, that would still exclude thousands from casting
ballots in the presidential election.

In the meantime, INS officials are considering starting the pilot project as
early as June to waive the interview and civics examination for select
citizenship applicants: U.S. high school or college graduates, the
developmentally disabled, children under 18 and U.S. residents 65 or older who
have been here 20 years or more.

The agency estimates that the waivers, if applied nationally, could reduce 30
percent of the naturalization caseload.

But conservative immigration groups have raised doubts about the waivers, which
the INS can put into effect without congressional authorization.

"By lowering the standards for naturalization, the value of citizenship itself
is also lowered," said former INS Commissioner Alan C. Nelson, who is president
of Americans Against Illegal Immigration. "You want people to have a basic
knowledge of English and understand their government before becoming citizens."

Richard Hobbs, director of the Catholic Charities Immigration Program in San
Jose, disagrees. He said the waivers and added funding are needed to keep the
momentum drummed up by citizenship drives.

"There are definite political reasons for this lack of funding," he said. "The
people in power -- both in Sacramento and in Washington -- fear the explosion of
a whole new class of low-income immigrants having voting power." Congressional
aide Kay said allegations that the Republicans controlling Congress are
concerned that newly naturalized citizens might vote them out are "ridiculous."

INS officials say the agency is expecting 725,000 citizenship applications this
year, a 30 percent increase from 1994.

In San Jose, INS director Bob Ackerman said his office was swamped with 2,300
new applicants in March. His staff of 20 naturalization agents can process only
1,300 applications a month and is still dealing with those filed early last
year.

It is now taking 13 months to process applications. But the wait threatens to be
prolonged -- up to 18 months -- if record numbers of applications continue
swamping the office.

"We just don't have the resources to keep up with the intake," Ackerman said.

Amelida Castillo, 45, of San Jose says she hopes Congress and the INS get their
act together in time for her to vote in November 1996.

"The government needs to make speeding up the process their top priority," said
Castillo, a Peruvian immigrant who has been a legal U.S. resident for 15 years.
"They should be doing everything in their power to encourage all of us to buy
into the American system."

LONGEST DELAYS

San Jose's INS office is believed to have the longest waiting period between
when a naturalization petition is filed and when an interview is held. If there
is a backup in the citizenship process, this phase is where it will occur.
Here's a list of some of the districts with the longest delays in that time
period.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information attached to the end of this article

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART
District Delay in days
San Jose 390
San Francisco 365
Los Angeles 270
San Diego 270
Miami 270
El Paso 240
Newark 240
Milwaukee 240
Tampa 180
Chicago 180
Source: American Immigration Lawyers Association

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 19, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IDEAL CITIZENS IMMIGRANTS APPLY, BUT CONGRESS PUTS THEM ON HOLD

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 446 words


THE hottest ticket around this year isn't for Placido Domingo or Tom Petty and
the Heartbreakers. It isn't for a courtroom seat an the O.J. Simpson trial,
either.

No, the longest wait these days is for a chance to become an American citizen.

Legal immigrants are applying for citizenship in record numbers. But instead of
promoting the ideal of citizenship, Congress is making them wait, and wait and
wait.

An immigrant in San Jose must wait 390 days -- the longest wait in the nation --
for a citizenship interview, and that's not the final step. Tens of thousands of
immigrants won't be able to vote in 1996 because the Immigration and
Naturalization Service doesn't have enough clerks and interviewers to process
their applications.

Why the rush? For starters, immigrants granted amnesty nine years ago are now
eligible for citizenship. An application for a new "green card" now costs $75,
so some figure $20 more for the application for citizenship is a good deal.
What's more, the anti-immigrant movement has motivated some to protect their
rights by voting or, on the flip side, to disassociate themselves from illegal
immigrants. The citizenship trend is accelerating among the nation's
approximately 10 million legal immigrants.

It isn't as if Congress was caught by surprise. Two years ago, INS chief Do-ris
Meissner requested additional employees and money to review applications, but
Congress granted only $7 million for citizenship. Congress instead focused on
border control. While that effort was mostly successful, it isn't finished, and
some scapegoating congressmen are using the border control issue as an excuse to
starve citizenship programs. What could be more rude and un-American? Nowhere
else has the ideal of citizenship played a more crucial role in nation building.
Many immigrants, past and present, were ambivalent about citizenship. But those
who stay eventually realize this is home, and that their children are thoroughly
American.

Painful as the realization may be, it's liberating, too. By becoming citizens,
they can vote and participate in the economic and political life of America
without cutting their emotional, religious and cultural ties to their homeland.
Congress can fix its citizenship myopia by approving $40 million for 300 new INS
employees, but the Republican leadership doesn't seem at all interested. By
snubbing new citizens, they're handing a whole new generation of Asian and
Latino voters to the Democrats.

In the last century, the Republican Party's anti-immigrant bent turned off
generations of Italian- and Irish-Americans. The GOP wouldn't make the same
mistake again, would it?

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 3, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON TO ADMIT CUBAN RAFTERS REVERSAL: POLICY WILL APPLY TO THOSE AT U.S.
BASE. NEW REFUGEES WILL BE REPATRIATED.

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 919 words

DATELINE: Washington


In a dramatic turnabout of U.S. immigration policy toward Cubans, the Clinton
administration announced Tuesday that the United States would grant entry to
most of 21,000 boat people at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay but would
forcibly return future refugees intercepted at sea.

The repatriation policy was harshly criticized by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C.,
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and by Cuban-American
lawmakers. They voiced outrage, asserting it would legitimize the government of
President Fidel Castro in the eyes of the world.

Two State Department officials involved in Cuban policy asked to be reassigned
in protest.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., reflected the thinking of those who found good in the
announcement.

"This is a workable solution to what has been an untenable situation at the U.S.
naval base in Guantanamo," said Graham, who was governor of Florida during the
huge 1980 influx of Cuban refugees known as the Mariel boatlift. "This agreement
makes it clear that the United States is in control of our borders, and that we
will not allow Fidel Castro to use immigration as a foreign-policy weapon."

Attorney General Janet Reno announced the move Tuesday, portraying it as a new
strategy to pre-empt violence at the U.S. base in Cuba -- where the refugees
have been housed in makeshift camps for months -- and to avert another exodus
from the island nation.

"The United States is now prepared to make another important step towards
regularizing Cuban migration between Cuba and the United States," Reno said in a
White House news conference.

Addressing the fear that new boat people returned to Cuba would be mistreated by
their government, Reno said the Cubans had "provided a commitment to the United
States government" that they would impose "no adverse consequences or reprisals"
on those picked up and returned.

The policy has three basic elements:

* With the exception of refugees with criminal records, special medical or legal
problems, all Cubans in the safe haven will admitted to the United States on a
case-by-case basis as special Guantanamo entrants. They will be eligible for
special humanitarian parole under guidelines announced by President Clinton last
October and December. The Cuban government will accept all those Cubans in U.S.
custody who want to return or are ineligible for U.S. entry.

* Future Cuban boat people who manage to reach U.S. soil will be candidates for
deportation, Reno said. They will be "placed in exclusion proceedings, and
treated as are all illegal migrants from other countries, including giving them
the opportunity to apply for asylum."

* The United States will intercept Cubans who flee the island by sea and
forcibly return them to Cuba, where they must apply for U.S. entry through legal
channels at the U.S. interests section in Havana.

35-year policy to end

The policy of repatriating Cubans completes a change, begun last summer, that
ends 35 years of official U.S. treatment of Cubans as heroic freedom- seekers.
Until last summer, when the United States began detaining the refugees at
Guantanamo, the U.S. policy had given Cubans special treatment by allowing them
to bypass standard asylum procedures.

The former policy had stirred considerable criticism when refugees from Haiti,
another Caribbean nation, were intercepted at sea and returned to their homeland
while Cuban refugees were allowed entry.

"Cubans must know that the only way to come to the United States is by applying
in Cuba," Reno said.

Tuesday's announcement on the refugees at Guantanamo represented a stark
reversal for the administration, which had long insisted that most of those at
the camp would not be processed for transfer to the United States. Nearly 30,000
Cubans landed in Guantanamo last summer after Castro's government, troubled by
unprecedented civil disturbances, invited them to leave.

'Warming of relations'

"It's another prime example of the softening and the warming up of relations
between the U.S. and Castro," said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R- Fla., who
branded the repatriation policy "very lamentable."

In Miami, hard-line Cuban-American leader Jorge Mas Canosa called the
arrangement "totally worthless," as WCMQ radio talk-show host Tomas Garcia Fuste
called it "another Bay of Pigs for Cubans." At the same time, Cuban- Americans
in Florida rejoiced over the impending release of the detainees, who include
many of their relatives.

The White House unveiled the approach in a joint statement that was
simultaneously issued by the Cuban government. It marked the second agreement on
immigration issues in eight months; on Sept. 9, the United States persuaded
Castro to stem the rafter exodus by agreeing to admit a minimum of 20,000 Cubans
a year.

'No net increase'

Reno said the number of Cubans leaving Guantanamo would be incorporated into
that annual total. "There will be no net increase in Cuban migration," she said.

Cuban sources said the U.S. stance unveiled Tuesday was the fruit of secret
negotiations carried out "at a high level" between the administration officials
and the Cuban government.

Protesting the announcement, two midlevel State Department officials responsible
for the day-to-day management of relations with Havana abruptly asked for
reassignment.

Dennis Hays, the coordinator of Cuban affairs, and his top deputy, Nancy Mason,
were immediately granted the transfer by Secretary of State Warren Christopher,
department officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: NEW YORK TIMES
Cuban refugees and U.S. specialists engage in "dance therapy" at the Guantanamo
base last week.
950503 FR 8A

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 17, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SYSTEM TO GO UNDER THE MICROSCOPE LANDMARK DEBATE BY HOUSE PANEL TO
RESONATE DEEPLY IN CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 996 words


At first glance, today's House immigration subcommittee hearing is just another
made-for-television event that will titillate C-SPAN viewers but few others.

On deeper examination, though, it represents the beginning of a landmark debate
about whether a key element of the American dream -- the country's tradition of
welcoming immigrants to its shores -- has gone haywire.

The hearing will be led by Texas Republican Lamar Smith, who has promised to
introduce a bill next month to overhaul the country's immigration system -- both
legal and illegal -- from top to bottom.

The debate will have extraordinary significance for California, where about
one-third of legal immigrants settle.

"I understand we all are immigrants or descendants of immigrants, but the United
States is like a boat or plane," said Yeh Ling-Ling, an Orinda resident who
works for the Washington-based Carrying Capacity Network. "At some point you
have to draw the line and say, 'We're all full.' "

She and other restrictionists argue that immigration from the Third World is
resulting in overcrowded schools and a cauldron of competition for low- skill
jobs in minority communities. Immigration advocates counter that the newcomers
are revitalizing neighborhoods and generating jobs through their entrepreneurial
spirit.

One of the first witnesses at today's hearing will be Peter Brimelow, author of
a sizzling new book called "Alien Nation." Its tenet: The United States is
committing cultural and economic suicide by accepting too many Third World
immigrants.

The debate about legal immigration is expected to pick up further momentum when
the bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by former Texas
Rep. Barbara Jordan, issues recommendations on the subject next month.

Some politicians predict that the national debate that will emerge during the
next few months is bound to be as divisive as California's debate over
Proposition 187, aimed at denying public services to illegal immigrants.

"The premise of 'Alien Nation' and anti-immigration groups is basically that
these new immigrants don't look like us and don't sound like us, so we ought to
fear and reject them," said Robert Rubin of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil
Rights in San Francisco.

And even Proposition 187's leading proponents now concede that the debate within
their ranks was never as simple as their own campaign rhetoric.

"Some people just weren't interested in whether the immigration was legal or
illegal," said Rick Oltman, who was chairman of the "Yes on 187 -- Save Our
State" committee. "Anytime anybody in our group started talking about legal
immigration, we'd cut them off and say it wasn't pertinent."

For his part, Oltman would like to see the United States slash legal-
immigration levels by at least a third. "And I'm a moderate in that group,"
Oltman said, laughing.

He agrees with Brimelow, an immigrant from England, on one major point. "Right
now our immigration policy is changing the racial makeup of the country," Oltman
said. "And that's never been done before in history."

The country's changing complexion is largely the result of the Immigration and
Nationality Act amendments of 1965, which replaced what was seen as a racist
system with one based on family reunification and job skills.

Most immigration restrictionists, though, say their reasons are environmental,
not racial.

"We only care about the numbers," said Monique Miller, executive director of the
Carrying Capacity Network.

Her 6-year-old organization and the older Federation for Immigration Reform
(FAIR) have called for a five-year "immigration moratorium" to give the country
a chance to catch its breath while it develops a new immigration policy.

Rep. Bob Stump, R-Ariz., and Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., have introduced
moratorium bills. Stump's has 64 co-sponsors.

Restrictionists point to new studies showing that legal immigrants use welfare
more than native-born Americans. And, they say, nearly two-thirds entering every
year are low-skilled -- reflecting the labor-intensive economy of the past
rather than the global economy of the future.

"I talk to so many people and they are concerned about the future, not about the
'browning of America,' " said restrictionist Yeh, an ethnic Chinese who was born
in Vietnam and raised in Cambodia before immigrating from France to the United
States 15 years ago. "They just feel the country's falling apart."

But pro-immigration groups -- which include a right-to-left array of business
interests, labor unions and civil rights organizations -- argue that the
restrictionists are using hysteria rather than reason.

"This xenophobic refrain is the same one used against immigrants 100 years ago,"
said Kathleen Sullivan, a San Francisco immigration attorney.

Pro-immigrant organizations argue that immigrants tend to be self-reliant, want
to assimilate and live in strong, stable families.

"I meet people on the street and their first reaction is, 'Immigration? That's
terrible! You have to do something about it,' " said Warren Leiden, executive
director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association and a member of
Jordan's commission.

But Leiden said that once he explains to the critics that "modern legal
immigration is mostly based on uniting families, and it's not some gift we're
giving to strangers," many Americans turn around on the issue.

Virtually nobody -- even those calling for a "moratorium" -- is talking about
denying U.S. citizens the right to bring in spouses and unmarried minor
children. But some restrictionists are questioning whether citizens' parents
should be automatically entitled to enter, as in current policy.

Another possible target is the annual lottery aimed at increasing immigration
from areas others than Asia and Latin America. Said Cecilia Munoz, of the
pro-immigration National Council of La Raza: "The lottery program is the one
that doesn't have a constituency."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart;
Photo: Statue of Liberty
950517 FR 15A 2
Chart: CARL NEIBURGER - MERCURY NEWS
Sources: Immigration and Naturalization service, National Immigration Forum
Immigrants
How many are coming?
950517 FR 1A 2; one pie chart

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 27, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 264 words


The Clinton administration issued new guidelines Friday to immigration officers
to help them identify women who should be granted asylum in this country because
sexual violence has been used for political persecution in their homeland. By
issuing the guidelines, the United States joined the United Nations and Canada
in recognizing that women may experience sex-based discrimination that in some
cases rises to the level necessary for refugee status, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said. * House and Senate leaders began compromise talks
on a budget plan amid growing signs that Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole,
R-Kan., is preparing to meet House Republicans more than halfway on their
proposal for a major tax cut. The budget approved by the House last week
contains $350 billion in tax cuts over seven years, the centerpiece of the
Republicans' "Contract With America." The Senate plan approved this week,
however, includes no specific tax cuts, only the promise of using $170 billion
of anticipated future interest savings for family tax relief and to spark
economic growth. However, Dole vowed to fight for major components of the House
tax plan. * The Senate rejected President Clinton's proposal to allow emergency
wiretaps in terrorism cases as both houses began work on counterterrorism
legislation in response to the April 19 bombing of a federal building in
Oklahoma City. The wiretap proposal was rejected, 52 to 28, with several
Democratic civil libertarians joining a unified Republican majority in rejecting
the Clinton wiretap initiative.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 5, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A COUNTER TO PROP. 187: DUAL CITIZENS

BYLINE: ESTHER SCHRADER, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1265 words

DATELINE: Mexico City


Hoping to create a powerful voting bloc in the United States, Mexico may soon
allow expatriates to hold dual citizenship, a historic change that could reshape
California and U.S. politics.

Responding to Proposition 187 and other measures they say punish Mexicans living
in the United States, the ruling party and its two major opponents have proposed
a constitutional amendment that for the first time would allow millions of
expatriates to become citizens of other countries while retaining most
privileges of Mexican citizenship.

The proposed amendment, which would allow expatriates to own property and work
but not vote in Mexico, has caused anticipation among Mexicans living in the
United States even though it has not been formally drafted. The amendment, a
perennial issue for several decades, is expected to be introduced in the Mexican
Congress in September and could be approved by year's end.

The proposal comes as U.S. groups are encouraging more legal Mexican immigrants
to become U.S. citizens so they can vote in the 1996 presidential election. The
passage of Prop. 187, which denies aid to undocumented immigrants, and
Republican proposals to end welfare benefits to legal immigrants have
accelerated that drive.

A 'new urgency'

"Of course opposition to Proposition 187 was the impulse behind (the proposed
Mexican amendment). It's been in the air for a long time, it's just that 187
gave it a new urgency," said a Mexican Foreign Ministry official who asked not
to be named. "We are trying to defend Mexicans living across the border now that
life has been made more difficult for them."

Laws long on the books in Mexico hold that permitting dual citizenship would cut
away at national identity by putting other nationalities on a par with Mexico.
Those laws forced Mexicans adopting other citizenships to give up their
passports, along with the right to own property in Mexico and do business
without a special visa.

The reluctance to sever ties to their homeland prevented millions of Mexicans
living legally in California and other states from adopting U.S. citizenship.
The result is a vast class of longtime legal residents who don't call themselves
Americans and don't have the right to vote.

Now, the desire to create a powerful electoral force sympathetic to Mexican
concerns appears to override worries about undercutting Mexican identity.

"I can see over the course of a generation it vastly enhancing Chicano power in
the United States," said Professor George Grayson of William and Mary University
in Delaware, an expert on Mexican migration.

"Where you could really see a difference is in states like California with a
large Mexican presence, and in presidential contests," he said, "to the extent
that you can mobilize those new citizens as block votes."

And that may be a challenge.

"In San Jose, largely Hispanic areas have a very, very low voter turnout," said
Bob Brownstein, a senior aide to San Jose Mayor Susan Hammer. "So why would one
assume that other people from the same ethnic background who become citizens
would necessarily vote in greater numbers?"

Politicians quiet

Gov. Pete Wilson and U.S. Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer declined to
comment on the proposed amendment; all said it was premature. Likewise in
Mexico, few politicians are discussing it publicly.

Neither the State Department nor the Immigration and Naturalization Service
keeps records of how many Mexicans living in the United States qualify for
citizenship. About 5.2 million Mexicans became legal residents between 1820 and
1993, but INS officials say it is impossible to know how many have died or left
U.S. soil.

In promoting the amendment, Mexico's ruling party has said 5.2 million Mexicans
living in the United States are eligible for citizenship.

But based on U.S. Census Bureau data, Jorge Bustamonte, director of the Research
Institute of the Northern Frontier in Tijuana, estimates that 1.5 million to 2
million Mexicans in the United States qualify for U.S. citizenship. Bustamonte,
who has been studying the impact of the proposed measure for a month, said that
more than half live in California.

"This is a very passionate issue for Mexicans with a continuous connection to
their families in Mexico and a reluctance to give up their heritage," said
Alberto Carrillo, a leader of the San Jose branch of the Mexican-American
Political Association, a statewide political interest group.

The amendment "would at least give them the opportunity to feel more complete as
individuals and as citizens. When you cannot vote where you live, what does that
do to your civic-mindedness? It really, let me tell you, takes a big chunk out
of that," he said.

INS expects explosion

If the amendment passes, the INS first expects an explosion of citizenship
applications from Mexicans living in the United States, followed by requests for
legal residency from their family members in Mexico. As relatives of U.S.
citizens, their immigration applications would no longer be subject to
immigration quotas and would circumvent a waiting list of 15 to 18 years.

The change could overwhelm INS offices already struggling with a backlog of
citizenship requests. The projected processing time at the San Jose INS office
is 18 months -- the longest in the country.

In March, the San Jose office received 2,300 applications, almost double its
monthly average. In late May, it added four immigration officers to handle the
backlog.

"I would not be surprised if in fact it didn't prompt even additional applicants
to come in and file," said Bob Ackerman, director of the San Jose INS office. "I
do know that particularly some of the more elderly people have not come forward
precisely because they don't want to lose their Mexican passports."

U.S. law does not specifically address dual nationality. New citizens must take
an oath renouncing allegiance to all foreign governments but are not required to
surrender their passports.

Citizenship doubled

Nationwide, 23,630 Mexicans became U.S. citizens in 1993, compared with 12,880
in 1992, according to the INS. Immigrant-rights advocates estimate that 80,000
to 120,000 Mexicans in Santa Clara County qualify for, but have not sought, U.S.
citizenship.

Mexicans living in Santa Clara county have a lower naturalization rate than any
other major immigrant group in the area, according to Richard Hobbs, director of
Catholic Charities immigration program for the county.

"They do not become citizens easily," Hobbs said. "There are geographic and
historical ties, and that means emotional ties to their country. Vietnamese have
crossed an ocean to get here and they don't imagine they'll go back. Mexicans go
back all the time."

With Spanish-language media throughout California reporting on the proposal,
Hobbs said Catholic Charities is flooded with inquiries from Mexican residents.
"Do you think it will be passed this year? I hope so. It would help all of us
living here so much," said Rita Alvarez Camacho, 67, a Mexican citizen living in
San Jose.

Camacho has been a legal U.S. resident since 1963 but has never sought
citizenship. She said she fears distancing herself from Mexico.

"We have our roots and, I don't know, we don't want to lose our nationality,"
Alvarez said. "You feel you are so far from your country already, if you lose
citizenship it would take you even farther away. Still, sometimes I feel stupid
having lived here so many years and not standing up for myself.

"It would be wonderful if I could be both Mexican and American. Wonderful."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See also related story on this page.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Mexican citizen Rita Alvarez Camacho, who lives in San Jose, is one of many who
would stand to gain dual citizenship.
950605 FR 14A 1

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 8, 1995 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. AID BILL WOULD HELP BRING BOAT PEOPLE HERE

BYLINE: JULIE A. GALVAN, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: Washington


Kim Viet Ngo moved to San Jose in September after almost six years in a
Philippine refugee camp, leaving her husband behind.

Kim, a former Catholic nun, said she escaped Vietnam because of religious
persecution. Her husband, an aspiring chemist, fled after being harassed by
officials because of his family's opposition to the communist government.

He could be one of 20,000 boat people resettled in the United States if a
foreign-aid bill scheduled for a House vote today becomes law. The bill, which
would commit $30 million to bring these refugees to this country and others, has
sparked criticism from the United Nations and a threatened veto from President
Clinton.

At issue is whether the refugees, the last of more than 800,000 who fled to
camps after the Vietnam War, should be repatriated to their homelands under an
international agreement signed by the United States in 1989, or allowed to
settle in this country by seeking political asylum. Since the war, about 2
million Vietnamese have resettled overseas, including 90,000 in the San Jose
area.

Opening the floodgates?

Opponents claim the House measure would undermine the U.N. program and open the
gates to a flood of new immigrants at a time of growing support for restrictions
on immigration. Supporters say the number of resettled Asians still would not
exceed the annual quota of 40,000.

News of the legislation has raised hopes and sparked unrest in camps in nine
Asian nations, including a riot in Hong Kong two weeks ago and a protest Monday
by 4,000 refugees who broke out of their camp in Malaysia. More violence was
reported Wednesday night at Hong Kong's High Island Detention Center where the
camp kitchen and an adjacent office were set on fire.

"This is a very special class of people," said Rep. Christopher Smith, R- N.J.,
sponsor of the resettlement legislation. "Americans should understand that
except for the grace of God any one of us could have ended up in one of those
oppressive countries."

Smith's proposal would cover about half the 46,000 refugees left in the camps.
The plan would prohibit using U.S. funds for repatriation and could reopen the
screening process for some already denied refugee status. Clinton wants to
commit $25 million to a U.N.-backed repatriation effort.

"This was a lifesaving undertaking," a State Department official said of the
U.N. program. "The plan has worked; 72,000 people have returned home since 1989,
voluntarily and safely. We're willing to help them go back. This amendment would
prevent us from providing funds for reintegration programs and the welfare of
people who have already returned."

The United Nations effort began in 1989 with an agreement signed by 78 countries
and agencies to repatriate Vietnamese, Laotians and Cambodians defined as
"economic migrants" and to resettle legitimate political refugees.

Refugees protest

In March, the United Nations decided to repatriate the remaining camp residents
by the end of the year.

That decision sparked a wave of protests from refugee groups in this country,
particularly advocates for Vietnamese, who make up the largest number of camp
residents. Smith's legislation emerged as a response.

"We support this bill because the system in the camps is so corrupt," said Loc
Vu, executive director of the Indochinese Resettlement and Cultural Center in
San Jose. "People who can't pay local government officials with money or sexual
favors are sometimes denied refugee status."

Rep. Norman Mineta, D-San Jose, has been flooded with letters from Vietnamese in
his district, where some of those refugees would end up. He is among Democrats
splitting with Clinton on the Smith amendment.

"I believe the United States has a responsibility to ensure that people who have
legitimate claims to political refugee status not be sent back to their country
of origin simply because of a faulty screening process," Mineta said in a
statement.

Barbara Francis, a representative for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees,
acknowledged that her agency "did find evidence of corruption in Indonesia where
local UNHCR staff were involved . . . but we are satisfied that overall, the
procedures have been fair.

"It's not easy on the Vietnamese, it's not easy on us, but if you're screened
out, you have to go home. We've had no reports of persecution; some harassment,
but that was to be expected."

Such explanations are of little comfort to Kim.

"I hope they pass this bill, because then the United States can look over my
husband's case again," Kim, a volunteer for a refugee resettlement group, said
through tears. "We're wasting our lives while we're apart. We can't go back to
Vietnam. Life was bad in the camps, but at least we were together."

A State Department official who doubted the Smith amendment would pass warned
there is no way to make countries abide by what Congress decides.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY, PAGE 18A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Tear gas wafts through the Hong Kong detention center for Vietnamese boat people
as police try to quell rioting.
950608 FR 22A PF 1; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 8, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AID BILL WOULD HELP BRING BOAT PEOPLE TO U.S IMMIGRATION: OPPONENTS SAY IT WOULD
REOPEN FLOODGATES FOR VIETNAMESE REFUGEES.

BYLINE: JULIE A. GALVAN, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: Washington


Kim Viet Ngo moved to San Jose in September after almost six years in a
Philippine refugee camp, leaving her husband behind.

Kim, a former Catholic nun, said she escaped Vietnam because of religious
persecution. Her husband, an aspiring chemist, fled after being harassed by
officials because of his family's opposition to the communist government.

He could be one of 20,000 boat people resettled in the United States if a
foreign-aid bill scheduled for a House vote today becomes law. The bill, which
would commit $30 million to bring these refugees to this country and others, has
sparked criticism from the United Nations and a threatened veto from President
Clinton.

At issue is whether the refugees, the last of more than 800,000 who fled to
camps after the Vietnam War, should be repatriated to their homelands under an
international agreement signed by the United States in 1989, or allowed to
settle in this country by seeking political asylum. Since the war, about 2
million Vietnamese have resettled overseas, including 90,000 in the San Jose
area.

Opening the floodgates?

Opponents claim the House measure would undermine the U.N. program and open the
gates to a flood of new immigrants at a time of growing support for restrictions
on immigration. Supporters say the number of resettled Asians still would not
exceed the annual quota of 40,000.

News of the legislation has raised hopes and sparked unrest in camps in nine
Asian nations, including a riot in Hong Kong two weeks ago and a protest Monday
by 4,000 refugees who broke out of their camp in Malaysia.

"This is a very special class of people," said Rep. Christopher Smith, R- N.J.,
sponsor of the resettlement legislation. "Americans should understand that
except for the grace of God any one of us could have ended up in one of those
oppressive countries."

Smith's proposal would cover about half the 46,000 refugees left in the camps.
The plan would prohibit using U.S. funds for repatriation and could reopen the
screening process for some already denied refugee status. Clinton wants to
commit $25 million to a U.N.-backed repatriation effort.

"This was a lifesaving undertaking," a State Department official said of the
U.N. program. "The plan has worked; 72,000 people have returned home since 1989,
voluntarily and safely. We're willing to help them go back. This amendment would
prevent us from providing funds for reintegration programs and the welfare of
people who have already returned."

The United Nations effort began in 1989 with an agreement signed by 78 countries
and agencies to repatriate Vietnamese, Laotians and Cambodians defined as
"economic migrants" and to resettle legitimate political refugees.

Refugees protest

In March, the United Nations decided to repatriate the remaining camp residents
by the end of the year.

That decision sparked a wave of protests from refugee groups in this country,
particularly advocates for Vietnamese, who make up the largest number of camp
residents. Smith's legislation emerged as a response.

"We support this bill because the system in the camps is so corrupt," said Loc
Vu, executive director of the Indochinese Resettlement and Cultural Center in
San Jose. "People who can't pay local government officials with money or sexual
favors are sometimes denied refugee status."

Rep. Norman Mineta, D-San Jose, has been flooded with letters from Vietnamese in
his district, where some of those refugees would end up. He is among Democrats
splitting with Clinton on the Smith amendment.

"I believe the United States has a responsibility to ensure that people who have
legitimate claims to political refugee status not be sent back to their country
of origin simply because of a faulty screening process," Mineta said in a
statement.

Barbara Francis, a spokeswoman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees,
acknowledged that her agency "did find evidence of corruption in Indonesia where
local UNHCR staff were involved . . . but we are satisfied that overall, the
procedures have been fair.

"It's not easy on the Vietnamese, it's not easy on us, but if you're screened
out, you have to go home. We've had no reports of persecution; some harassment,
but that was to be expected."

Such explanations are of little comfort to Kim.

"I hope they pass this bill, because then the United States can look over my
husband's case again," Kim, a volunteer for a refugee resettlement group, said
through tears. "We're wasting our lives while we're apart. We can't go back to
Vietnam. Life was bad in the camps, but at least we were together."

A State Department official who doubted the Smith amendment would pass warned
there is no way to make countries abide by what Congress decides.

"The first asylum countries (those maintaining camps) have indicated they are
not about to start the screening process all over again," he said.

The official, who refused to speak for attribution, also expressed concern about
creating false hope among refugees.

"To raise the hopes of people who just can't accept they have to go back is
cruel," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Mineta
950608 FR 18A 1

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 11, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON DEPLOYS SHIPS TO BLOCK POTENTIAL EXODUS FROM CUBA

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS AND TIM NICKENS,Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration has ordered 12 Coast Guard and Navy vessels to the
Florida Strait and is prepared to repatriate Cuban refugees if an exodus begins,
U.S. lawmakers said Wednesday.

The ships are being sent to the waters between the United States and Cuba as
part of an effort to demonstrate resolve to Havana and dissuade Cuban- Americans
from sailing to Cuba to pick up relatives, the lawmakers said.

If Cuban President Fidel Castro follows through on a threat to unleash a
U.S.-bound exodus of boat people, the U.S. vessels are prepared to intercept and
return the refugees to Cuba, said Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla.

Meanwhile, in Key West, Fla., 25 of the 26 Cubans who fled their homeland in a
government boat were released Wednesday after being interviewed by immigration
officials who sought to determine if they were defectors or criminals.

The Cubans were picked up Tuesday about 60 miles off Key West and were held
aboard a Coast Guard cutter overnight.

One man, Leonel Macias Gonzalez, was still being detained Wednesday, said Lamar
Wooley, spokesman in Miami for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He
had no information on why Macias Gonzalez was being held.

A woman who identified herself as Macias Gonzalez's girlfriend said he had
commandeered the boat. Irenia Mesa, 15, said she did not witness the shootout
but said Macias Gonzalez, a 19-year-old Cuban military mechanic, told her he
fired in self-defense after telling the three other military men aboard to get
off.

"The official fired two shots by his head" and missed, she said. "He had to fire
back."

One man fell overboard, and it wasn't known if he had been hit, and the two
others jumped ship, she said.

The Cuban government initially contended a navy lieutenant was killed when the
30-foot boat was taken Monday from the port of Mariel. But a Cuban diplomat in
Washington declined Wednesday to repeat the government's allegation.

Meanwhile, a crop-dusting plane landed in Marathon, in the middle Florida Keys,
with 14 Cuban defectors aboard. The Coast Guard also said it had rescued 90
other Cubans at sea Tuesday.

A State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity confirmed that
contingency plans for a Cuban exodus include the possibility of forcibly
repatriating refugees. Such action would occur only in dire circumstances, he
cautioned.

The principal aim of the classified emergency plan -- drafted over several years
by up to 40 federal agencies -- is to avoid a repeat of the 1980 Mariel
boatlift, the influx of 125,000 refugees that overwhelmed South Florida services
and sapped state coffers for years.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     August 22, 1994 Monday STREET EDITION

MIAMI COPS ON ALERT FOR TROUBLE

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 262 words

DATELINE: Miami


Police blocked off streets leading to the immigration center Sunday where Cuban
refugees are detained after angry crowds demonstrated there the day before.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service also began to allow relatives to
visit the hundreds of Cubans at Krome Detention Center, just outside Miami. A
spokeswoman for the INS said there were 408 Cubans housed there as of Sunday
morning.

Between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. EDT Sunday, bus loads of Cuban exiles with proof
that they were relatives of immigrants housed at Krome were being allowed into
the center.

Cubans who arrived in south Florida by sea were being detained for the first
time in 28 years under a dramatic policy shift the Clinton administration
announced late Thursday.

The new policy -- which includes detention of Cuban refugees who reach U.S. soil
and removal to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba of those picked up at sea, as
well as tightened economic sanctions -- has met with a mixed response in the
Miami area.

More than half of about 1.1 million people of Cuban descent in the United States
live in and around this city. Miami's Cuban exile community is a vibrant and
powerful political and economic force.

Leaders of the exile community have praised Washington's toughened attitude
toward Cuban President Fidel Castro. But individuals, many worried about
relatives who left Cuba by sea, have protested the refugee policy.

Crowds gathered on the streets of Miami's Little Havana neighborhood holding
anti-Clinton signs and chanting, "Miami, Si! Guantanamo, No!"

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 21, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON CLAMPS DOWN ON CASH FLOW TO CUBA FAMILY GIFTS, TRAVEL CURTAILED

BYLINE: PAUL ANDERSON, MARILYN GARATEIX AND MARTIN MERZER,Knight-Ridder News
Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: Miami


Attempting to punish Cuban President Fidel Castro and siphon more lifeblood from
the country's ailing economy, President Clinton ordered an end Saturday to all
cash transfers by U.S. residents to people in Cuba and sharp curtailments of
other private aid.

The administration also stopped all "family reunification" visits to Cuba,
another important source of revenue to the Cuban government and a source of
solace to those remaining under Castro's rule.

But after all was said and done, still the rafters came -- in record numbers and
despite new immigration barriers that include automatic federal detention. By
Saturday night, the Coast Guard had intercepted 861. That was nearly twice the
number who arrived in all of 1990, and this year's total -- 8,928 -- is the
largest since the Mariel boatlift of 1980.

"They're still coming in, and we're still picking them up," said Coast Guard
Petty Officer Amy Gaskill.

The unexpectedly harsh anti-Castro steps, announced in Washington after meetings
with south Florida civic leaders, represented the second phase of the
administration's still-evolving response to the wave of Cuban immigration. The
U.S. action could deprive Cuba of hundreds of millions of dollars every year.
Relatives rally at Krome

As Clinton issued his latest statement on this new Cuban crisis, hundreds of
Cuban-Americans demonstrated outside the Krome Detention Center south of Miami.
They waved Cuban flags. They chanted "Libertad! Libertad!" They demanded to see
-- or at least learn the identities of -- the first rafters seized under a new
immigration policy intended to discourage Cubans from taking to the sea.

Inside the center, most refugees said they were satisfied just to be out of
Cuba.

"It's enough that they've taken us in. We are happy with that," said Marisol
Vidal, 20, who came to the United States on a raft with her 2-month- old
daughter.

In announcing Saturday's steps to further cripple Castro's government, Clinton
said the Cuban leader's actions "have placed thousands of Cuban citizens at risk
in small boats and rafts, and have had a direct impact on our national
interest."

Friday, the president ordered all newly arrived Cuban refugees to be detained at
the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, on Cuba's southeastern tip, or at
immigration centers in the United States.

In Havana, a Foreign Ministry statement Saturday accused Washington of turning
the Guantanamo base into a "concentration camp." The statement said Cubans had
been spurred to leave the island by "sordid and hostile" U.S. actions.

Many critics in the United States had charged that the president's new
immigration policy, which reversed decades of special treatment for Cubans,
punished the wrong people -- freedom-seeking refugees rather than Castro.

Punitive measures

In response, Clinton announced these four measures Saturday, all intended to
further isolate Castro:

* An immediate cutoff of so-called "remittances," the cash transfers that
Cuban-Americans send to relatives on the island. The payments had been limited
to $300 per U.S. household every three months, but that still injected an
estimated $10 million into the Cuban economy each year.

Clinton also said family gift packages would be limited to food, medicine and
other "strictly humanitarian items." Additionally, any cash transfers for
humanitarian purposes must be authorized by the U.S. Treasury Department.

"We now know that an awful lot of the cash payments were actually going to prop
up Castro," said Gov. Lawton Chiles, who welcomed the measures.

* A sharp reduction in charter flights between Miami and Havana. This halts all
flights except those to conduct official business, transport legal immigrants
from Cuba to the United States or repatriate Cubans.

No longer will Cuban-Americans be permitted to visit relatives in Cuba, although
scholars, journalists and certain others will be allowed to travel.

Travel agents have estimated that at least 75,000 passengers travel between the
United States and Cuba every year, spending as much at $150 million on the
island.

Source of revenue

Estimates vary, but the State Department said earlier this month that total
transfers of cash and goods from the United States to Cuba exceed $400 million a
year. That would make such payments Cuba's third-most-important source of hard
currency, behind sugar exports and tourism.

* Increased U.S. radio broadcasts into Cuba "by all appropriate means" to advise
Cubans not to risk crossing the Florida Strait. Aides said initial broadcasts
will originate on C-130 cargo planes that will circle Cuba, just as they have
been for the last month around Haiti.

* Presenting to the United Nations and other organizations complaints of human
rights abuses within Cuba. Clinton referred specifically to last month's sinking
by Cuban gunboats of a tugboat loaded with refugees. More than 40 people
reportedly died.

"The solution to Cuba's many problems is not an uncontrolled exodus, it is
freedom and democracy for Cuba," said Clinton. "We will pursue this course with
vigor and determination."

Voices pro, con

The steps were endorsed by Florida leaders ranging from Chiles to Jorge Mas
Canosa, chairman of the Cuban-American National Foundation.

"I think the president has done the right thing," Mas said.

But Eddie Levy, chairman of the Cuban-American Defense League, which advocates
discussions with the Castro government, was surprised and upset by Clinton's
announcement.

"It's politics at its worst," Levy said. "The harder that we make it for the
people of Cuba the more people that will want to leave the country. That's just
common sense."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A crying Yesenia Gonzalez, 3, is detained in the INS Krome Detention Center near
Miami after fleeing Cuba with relatives.
940821 FR 27A 4

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 16, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. DETAINS 14 IN CUBA CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 131 words


In a demonstration that it is serious about discouraging illegal immigration,
the U.S. government has detained 14 men it suspects of smuggling immigrants or
hijacking boats from Cuba.

The detentions came as 371 Cubans landed in Florida over the weekend, the
largest three-day total since the Mariel boat-lift of 1980, when about 125,000
Cubans arrived over a five-month period, said a Coast Guard spokesman in Miami.

The men, nine of whom were being held in the Monroe County Jail, near Key West,
and five at the Krome Avenue federal immigration center in Dade County, have not
been charged with any crimes. But a Justice Department spokeswoman in Washington
said that officials were reviewing four separate incidents involving the men and
that charges could be forthcoming.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   August 26, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

'CAPTAIN JUMP OFF' CONVICTED IN DROWNING DEATHS OF REFUGEES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: West Palm Beach, Fla.


A boat captain who smuggled Haitians into the United States was convicted in the
drowning deaths of four refugees for ordering them to jump overboard.

A federal grand jury found Richard Bennett Barker guilty Thursday of four counts
of negligent homicide, three counts of immigrant smuggling and one count of
conspiracy to smuggle immigrants.

"This sends a powerful message to those involved in alien smuggling and also
serves as a tragic reminder of the terrible risk people face when they attempt
to be illegally smuggled into this country," said Kendall Coffey, U.S. attorney
for the Southern District of Florida.

Barker, 43, who was nicknamed "Captain Jump Off," is scheduled to be sentenced
Oct. 25. Barker, from Boynton Beach, could get up to 58 years in prison and be
fined up to $2 million.

Four Haitians, including two children, died Feb. 7 after they were ordered off
Barker's 31-foot boat near Hutchinson Island. The boat had picked up 27 Haitians
in the Bahamas.

Authorities found the bodies of Ermantine Joseph, 42, and Rene Chauvette, 28,
floating in the waters. The bodies of Kenol Louis, 6, and Justin Jean- Baptiste,
7, washed ashore.

Jury foreman Moises Morales said jurors relied heavily on the testimony of two
Haitian men who were among the other 23 other refugees on the boat. The group
had been caught by U.S. Border Patrol agents and police before being released to
church organizations to help resettle in Florida.

In 1993, 1,087 Haitians landed illegally along Florida's coastline, according to
Border Patrol records. So far this year, more than 1,800 Haitians have landed
illegally, said Mike Sheehy, an assistant chief patrol agent.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 27, 1995 Monday STOCK FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING SHIP HELD OFF BAJA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: San Diego


A fishing vessel holding 95 illegal immigrants remained off the coast of Mexico
today, detained by the U.S. Coast Guard pending marching orders from the State
Department, a Coast Guard spokesman said.

The 127-foot Fang Ming was being held about 250 miles north of Cabo San Lucas, a
Mexican resort town and the southernmost point in Baja California, said Coast
Guard Lt. Mark Frankford. The boat was anchored about 100 miles offshore.

No information was available on the origin of the boat or its occupants.

"We're still really early into this," said Frankford.

Another Coast Guard spokesman, Gus Oviedo, said he expected the State Department
today to make some decision on where to take the boat and its passengers.

On Friday, the Coast Guard ships Long Island and Tybee intercepted the vessel
and discovered 88 men and seven women aboard.

Though their nationality remained unclear, there have been a string of recent
interceptions of Chinese smuggling boats off the coasts of the United States and
Mexico.

They include:

* Last June, the captain of a freighter that carried about 300 undocumented
Chinese refugees to San Francisco the year before was sentenced to 2 1/2 years
in federal prison.

* Last April, the Coast Guard intercepted a vessel with 121 Chinese aboard. The
migrants were sent to Guatemala and then repatriated, said Coast Guard Chief
Petty Officer Brandy Ian.

* Last January, the owner of a ship that ran aground with more than 300 Chinese
crammed aboard pleaded guilty along with six henchmen to conspiracy to smuggle
migrants. The ship ran aground in June 1993 off New York City at the end of a
16,000-mile journey from China. At least 10 refugees drowned.

* In July, 1993, the Coast Guard intercepted three ships carrying 658 Chinese
boat people bound for the United States. Mexico received the migrants after they
were detained for 10 days off the Mexican coast.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     March 29, 1995 Wednesday HOME EDITION

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING SHIP IN LIMBO 95 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DETAINED OFF MEXICO

BYLINE: CATHIE CALVERT, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 258 words


The Fang Ming is a fishing vessel purportedly carrying 95 illegal Asian
immigrants and -- since Friday -- a Coast Guard boarding party.

It is stopped off the coast of Mexico some 600 miles south of San Diego,
according to U.S. officials.

The Fan Ming is a fishing vessel carrying 97 Chinese immigrants that the Mexican
Navy sent back to sea today. It allegedly tried to put its passengers ashore in
Mexico just over the U.S. border, the Associated Press reported, quoting
Mexico's El Universal newspaper.

If you think that the AP's Fan Ming is a typo that translates to Fang Ming,
forget it, a State Department spokeswoman said today.

"The Mexican Navy is not involved in Fang Ming case," said spokeswoman Susan
Snyder in a telephone interview from her Washington, D.C. office.

"The Coast Guard is still on board (the Fang Ming), continuing its investigation
on board the ship. It will present the results (of its investigation) to an
inter-agency group, which will determine any further U.S. action," she said.

Snyder said she had no estimate on when the investigation -- that presumably now
has been continuing for six days -- would be completed.

Coast Guard representatives today said they had been told to refer all calls on
the Fang Ming to Snyder.

Earlier this week, before that edict, Coast Guard Petty Officer Trent Jones said
that resolving the Fang Ming incident "would involve the Coast Guard, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Department of State -- and, I'm
sure, the White House."

Stay tuned.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 20, 1995 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. INTERCEPTS SMUGGLED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: San Diego


A boat carrying 150 suspected illegal immigrants has been intercepted and
boarded by the U.S. Coast Guard, officials say.

The 250-foot boat, identified as the Xin Ji Li Hou, was carrying mostly male
passengers -- there were five women -- and 15 crew members. Their nationalities
were still unclear, the Coast Guard said.

The boat remained about 90 miles southwest of San Diego on Wednesday, but its
fate remained unclear, the Coast Guard said.

Meanwhile, a Mexican Naval cutter led the Fang Ming, a fishing vessel
intercepted last month with more than 100 illegal immigrants aboard, into the
port city of San Carlos, near the tip of Baja California.

The Fang Ming's 106 illegal immigrants -- 99 men and seven women -- were taken
to a building in San Carlos, where they were being processed by Mexican
immigration officials, according to a release from the Mexican Interior
Ministry.

A representative from the Mexican Human Rights Commission was present, the
ministry said.

The Fang Ming had been sitting off the coast of Baja since May 24, when it was
intercepted by the Coast Guard.

In the last several years, a string of fishing boats ferrying undocumented
Chinese immigrants have been seized off the coasts of California and Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 16, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL SWEARS IN 49 AGENTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: San Diego


The U.S. Border Patrol swore in 49 new recruits Monday, the latest installment
in a federal initiative aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration.

The new agents were sworn in at the Brown Field Border Patrol station. San Diego
sector chief Johnny Williams also announced the start of a program aimed at
people who smuggle illegal immigrants into the United States.

The new agents are part of an infusion of money, equipment and staff directed at
the San Diego sector under Operation Gatekeeper, introduced in October by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to curb illegal immigration.

The agents will go through the training program at the Border Patrol Academy in
Georgia before returning to California in September. There are now 1,372 agents
assigned to San Diego, a 40 percent increase over last year.

Smugglers in demand

But because of Operation Gatekeeper, more illegal crossers are relying on
smugglers to navigate the treacherous no-man's land between the two countries
and to escort them to points north.

The fees charged by smugglers, known as coyotes, have escalated by more than 50
percent since Operation Gatekeeper began, Williams said.

Smugglers prey on their vulnerable customers, becoming involved in high- speed
chases, suffocating and gassing them in car trunks and raping women, said
Roberto Martinez, who has monitored human rights along the border for 13 years.
"They're in it for the money, and they'll take whatever risk they have to take
to do this," Martinez said. "I have no sympathy for them."

Dangerous passage

Last month in Jamul, a van crammed with 36 illegal immigrants and driven by an
alleged smuggler crashed into a pickup truck on a lonely stretch of highway in
eastern San Diego County. Three people, including the driver of the pickup
truck, were killed and another 16 were injured.

To stop the smuggling, the Border Patrol started Operation Disruption two weeks
ago. It has led to the arrest of 20 alleged smugglers and the dismantling of 15
holding sites for undocumented immigrants, known as drop houses, on the U.S.
side of the border, Williams said.

Williams credited the program with the apprehension of 600 undocumented
immigrants, including citizens of India, El Salvador and Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    June 10, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

5 JAILED FOR SMUGGLING THEY BROUGHT 300 ILLEGAL CHINESE INTO CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Five men who smuggled 300 illegal Chinese immigrants into California have
received unusually long sentences for the crime -- but prosecutors say the
penalties still aren't tough enough.

The five will serve 12 months to two years, well above the national average of
only six to 12 months, said federal prosecutor Steven Gruel.

"Given the profit to be made in alien smuggling and the lack of an effective
deterrent as far as punishment, it's a lot less risky than drug smuggling," he
said Thursday.

The case involved the same Taiwanese-registered mother ship -- the Jin Yinn No.
1 -- tracked and boarded by the U.S. Coast Guard in April, then escorted to
Guatemala with 113 Chinese aboard.

Gruel's case involved an earlier smuggling trip by the Jin Yinn in June 1993,
when the mother ship rendezvoused with two smaller U.S.-registered vessels
somewhere off Central California.

About 300 illegal immigrants were taken aboard the boats Angel and Pelican,
which then sailed to Moss Landing Harbor and Pillar Point, where they were
intercepted.

The immigrants told U.S. immigration officials they had left China a month-
and-a-half earlier, and had run out of food several days prior to reaching
California.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 5, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

LATINO LABOR MOVEMENT'S QUANDARY UNIONS DEBATE IF THEY SHOULD EXCLUDE OR TRY TO
ORGANIZE UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS IN BORDER STATES.

BYLINE: MICHELLE LEVANDER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 682 words


Labor leader Gilbert Adams, the grandson of Mexican-American immigrants,
struggles when asked about the day laborers who stand on street corners looking
for jobs that might otherwise go to the Latino members of his union.

"They are taking jobs from our people," he says. "But our members realized some
years back they were in that position. How can we block these people?"

Adams' quandary is shared by Latino labor leaders holding their national
convention in San Jose this week. At the heart of their debate is the question
of whether unions should exclude or try to organize the burgeoning population of
undocumented workers in the nation's border states.

"The labor movement cannot go up if they don't help the bottom," said Carlos
Avitia of the International Molders union in San Jose. "If we allow a worker to
be exploited because he's illegal, that's against our interests."

That question also divides many in the Latino community.

"The Latino population is in conflict," said pollster Mervin Field. "Latinos who
are here as citizens have an emotional tug to a more open- door policy for other
Latinos," he said. But, "Latino workers here legally view those here illegally
as competitors. They are fighting for the same jobs."

The issue came to a head for this group, the Labor Council for Latin American
Advancement, over the question of sanctions against employers who hire illegal
immigrants. The AFL-CIO, its parent organization, has always been a staunch
supporter.

At LCLAA's 1992 national meeting, the issue "practically consumed the
convention," recalled LCLAA spokesman Fernando Albornoz. "You have to look at
organized labor as most concerned with protecting jobs. You have two competing
interests. That's why it is such a hotly debated issue."

At that convention, however, a more progressive wing led by California delegates
succeeded in reversing the group's endorsement of employer sanctions, recalls
longtime executive director Alfredo Montoya.

"Labor needs to replicate its history and organize immigrant workers," said Mike
Garcia, the president of San Jose Service Employees Local 1877 and a leader in
the California delegation.

Garcia and some of his colleagues are also seeking to change what they describe
as a lackluster organization. Even the fact that the convention is being held
for the first time in California -- where a third of the 700 delegates in
attendance are based -- is seen by some as a political coup.

The controversies now consuming LCLAA are a departure for what had historically
been a conservative group dominated by East Coast members.

LCLAA was founded in 1972, at a time when the Chicano movement was at its most
militant. Yet, the group, led by a conservative Cuban president, instead focused
on networking and the intricacies of union politics.

Frank Martin del Campo, the president of the San Francisco LCLAA chapter, wants
the group to take the lead in shaping policy for the labor movement on issues
such as immigration and job discrimination.

San Jose trade unionist Rachel Licon wants the group to adopt more progressive
positions. Both a pro-choice resolution and one stating that workers had a right
to be free from discrimination based on sexual orientation failed at the 1992
convention, Licon said.

And most members say they want the largely white male leadership of the AFL-CIO
to be more open to minorities. Garcia jokes that those at the top are too
"stale, pale and male."

A number of the LCLAA's newer members are the first in their families to hold
down well-paying union jobs, traditionally off-limits to minorities. Rosie
Morales of the Communication Workers of America in San Jose got her job at
Pacific Bell via a court order that mandated that the company hire minorities,
she said.

Louie Rocha, a lineman and CWA official, grew up in East San Jose and saw many
of his friends go to prison or die on the streets.

"My essential reason to become active as a Latino is to help open the door to
other Latinos," he said. "A lot of social problems are prevented with
good-paying jobs."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 1994

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. ,8/6/94 pg. 11D)
Because of a photographer's error, Louie Rocha, a Communication Workers of
America official, was misidentified in a caption in some editions of the
Business section Friday. He was pictured on the left.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MISO SUCHY -- MERCURY NEWS
Enrique L. Fernandez, Local 1877 President Mike Garcia and Gilbert Adams, from
left, wait for other union members to join them as they prepare for today's
annual meeting of the Labor Council for Latin American Advancement.
940805 BU 1F 1; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 26, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON'S FLIP-FLOP HE ONCE UNDERSTOOD THE ECONOMIC ROLE IMMIGRANTS PLAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 313 words


A DECADE ago, Pete Wilson didn't have the bloodhounds out for illegal
immigrants.

Back when he was mayor of San Diego, Wilson said illegal immigrant workers were
essential to the California economy, that "they pay taxes like everyone else."

Later, as a U.S. senator, Wilson voted to require states to provide emergency
medical treatment to undocumented immigrants.

As mayor or senator, he consistently lobbied to bring in Mexican farmworkers,
and pushed hard in 1986 to legalize undocumented farmhands.

But that was then and this is now.

As Mercury News reporter Scott Thurm documented this week, Wilson has flip-
flopped. Now he's run a campaign ad showing Mexicans crossing the border while
the narrator intones: "They keep coming."

These days, Wilson tours the Texas-Mexico border, telling everyone that illegal
immigrants are tax leeches, that they steal jobs and that their kids crowd our
schools. He'd deny them hos-pital care, education and the prospect of
citizenship. He'd seal the border if he could.

What explains the turnaround?

His aides say Wilson's views changed as the social and financial burdens of
illegal immigration increased, along with public unease. They're right about the
public's nervousness, but their explanation is too facile.

Wilson can claim only a few achievements in his first term: streamlined
regulations to encourage business growth, some tough new laws and five new
prisons.

So Wilson's re-election team has shrewdly molded two hot-button issues,
immigration and welfare, into a campaign sledgehammer.

This isn't the governor who took office talking highly about prenatal care, drug
treatment, welfare-to-work and other problem-solving strategies.

This isn't the Pete Wilson who earlier showed he understood why immigrants might
"keep coming," legally or illegally, and why we should not try to drive them
away.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  November 1, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

WILSON ACCUSED IN ILLEGAL WORKER FLAP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 103 words


Challenger Kathleen Brown charged Monday that Gov. Pete Wilson intervened in
1989 with the Immigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of a campaign
contributor who hired undocumented immigrant workers. Wilson aides acknowledged
that the governor, then a U.S. senator, did write a letter to the INS the day
after federal agents raided two San Diego hotels -- the Bahia and the Catamaran
-- looking for illegal immigrants. But they argued that Wilson's letter did not
defend the hotels' hiring practices and had no bearing on the outcome of the
case, in which owner Anne Evans ultimately was fined $70,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CAMPAIGN NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  November 1, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

WILSON ACCUSED IN ILLEGAL WORKER FLAP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 103 words


Challenger Kathleen Brown charged Monday that Gov. Pete Wilson intervened in
1989 with the Immigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of a campaign
contributor who hired undocumented immigrant workers. Wilson aides acknowledged
that the governor, then a U.S. senator, did write a letter to the INS the day
after federal agents raided two San Diego hotels -- the Bahia and the Catamaran
-- looking for illegal immigrants. But they argued that Wilson's letter did not
defend the hotels' hiring practices and had no bearing on the outcome of the
case, in which owner Anne Evans ultimately was fined $70,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CAMPAIGN NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 3, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

INCUMBENT HIRED ILLEGAL WORKER, STRIKE PAPER SAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Report

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 128 words


U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein employed an illegal immigrant as a housekeeper for
two years during the 1980s, according to a newspaper published by striking
employees of the San Francisco Chronicle and Examiner.

Feinstein said the woman "showed me documentation in the form of a card" that
indicated she was a legal U.S. resident.

But the bylined Free Press article by Susan Yoachum, Chronical political editor,
said that Immigration and Naturalization Service records show that the woman did
not obtain papers to work legally in the United States until 1986, several years
after her employment by Feinstein.

The strike newspaper did not release the name of the woman, who was from
Guatamala.

The story is to appear in Friday's edition of the Free Press.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 28, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GUEST WORKERS CAN PROVIDE LOW-COST LABOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 173 words


In his Nov. 22 commentary, Joe Rodriguez makes a strong case that California
needs low-cost labor. Then he concludes that what we really need are illegal
immigrants because "a porous border works to our advantage."

If we need low-cost labor, why can't we get it legally?

California used to have a successful "guest worker" program, bringing in
low-cost laborers legally. After their work, mostly in agriculture, they were
sent home to their families.

Guest workers could be on a limited stay -- three to six months. They would have
appropriate documents showing that they were here because of our need for
low-cost labor. They could be sent home periodically to their families, and
brought back again the following year. Our schools and medical facilities would
not be burdened by their children, who do not work and do not pay significant
taxes.

Justifying a porous border to supply our "need" for illegal immigrants is a poor
rationale for our problems that gave rise to Proposition 187.

-- Charlie Larson

Sunnyvale

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 24, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

8 FACE CHARGES IN CHINESE SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 134 words


Authorities charged eight people with smuggling illegal immigrants Thursday in
Cape May, N.J., after the weekend capture of a fishing boat carrying more than
100 illegal immigrants from China. Kenneth Wong, a naturalized U.S. citizen born
in China, was described by U.S. Attorney Faith Hochberg as the mastermind of the
smuggling effort.

Eighteen people described as "enforcers" and six other crew members were brought
ashore in handcuffs after the Coast Guard brought the 75-foot fishing vessel
Captain Denny into Cape May.

The 100 illegal entrants, who were moved to a Coast Guard ship, remained at sea
Thursday while the State Department considered what to do with them, officials
said. It was not clear how many people were being smuggled. The Coast Guard said
108. Hochberg said 120.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Two women accused of trying to smuggle Chinese into the United States are taken
into custody in Cape May, N.J.
940624 FR 8A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 10, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HALF WOULD DENY ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS SCHOOLS, CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 902 words


Two out of three Californians think illegal immigrants are hurting the state,
says a new statewide Field Poll, and about half would bar them from public
schools and deny citizenship to children born in this country to illegal
parents.

The findings, which closely mirror several other recent immigration-related
surveys, reflect an intense and widespread frustration over illegal immigrants,
said Field Poll Director Mark DiCamillo.

"There is a collective perception among Californians," he said, "that there has
to be greater amounts of restriction on the flow of illegal immigrants into the
country."

Nevertheless, 60 percent of the respondents said illegal immigrants should
continue to get emergency health care, and 49 percent disagreed that everyone in
the country should carry a special identification card to prove their legal
status. But 42 percent liked the often-proposed I.D. card idea.

On legal immigration, 55 percent favored reducing the numbers of those admitted
into the country each year -- even though three of every four respondents said
that as citizens, legal immigrants were as good as or better than people born in
this country.

And remarkably -- given the controversy over bilingual education and voting
materials -- 64 percent considered it good that immigrant groups preserve their
own languages.

Judging from previous Field Polls, tolerance for other languages seems to be
generally increasing, DiCamillo said. The percentage of respondents who favor
immigrants preserving their native tongues was 48 percent in 1982, 56 percent in
1987 and 65 percent last year.

The poll also found 70 percent in support of immigrants keeping their cultures
alive, a figure that has remained fairly constant in recent years.

Not so surprisingly, whites and registered voters tended to be far more critical
of illegal immigrants and favored tougher measures to keep them out of the
country than did Hispanics or those not registered to vote. DiCamillo saw
evidence the soured economy has a lot to do with negative attitudes about
illegal immigrants.

More favorable than in '93

In both 1982 and 1993, when the state was in particularly bad financial shape,
he noted, about three of every four respondents to the poll said illegal
immigrants had an unfavorable impact on the state. But the poll found slightly
more than two out of three held that view when the state's economy showed signs
of improvement in 1987 and this year.

Similarly, 52 percent of Field Poll respondents in 1982 and 39 percent in 1993
believed illegal immigrants took jobs away from legal Californians, compared
with just 30 percent in 1987 and 34 percent this year.

"When we move away from that kind of economic recession mentality," DiCamillo
said, "it seems the impressions of illegal immigration become a little more
favorable."

Widespread concern about illegal immigrants may add fuel to a proposed statewide
initiative that would make it harder for illegal immigrants to attend public
schools and obtain health benefits.

But because the poll didn't specifically ask respondents about the initiative,
it is difficult to draw conclusions about that. DiCamillo said a future Field
Poll will probably try to measure support for the initiative if it qualifies for
November's ballot.

Predictably, immigrants' advocates and those favoring tougher immigration laws
saw the results differently.

"It's certainly encouraging to see that 60 percent of the people believe that
denial of emergency health care is not in the interest of the people of
California," said Robert Rubin, assistant director of the Lawyers Committee for
Civil Rights in San Francisco. Denying illegal immigrants care, he said, "not
only hurts the individual, but undermines public health."

Denial of education

"On the same note," Rubin added, "I would say it's a little disturbing that a
sizable percentage of people are not concerned about the denial of education to
any child who is living in our community."

Rubin also voiced concern about the idea of denying citizenship to U.S.-born
children of illegal parents. Such a proposal would require amending the U.S.
Constitution, which he said could open the door to more frivolous amendments in
the future.

But Ira Mehlman, California spokesman for the Federation of American Immigration
Reform, which favors laws to bolster the borders and to cut the numbers of legal
immigrants, said he wasn't surprised by the poll.

"It's very consistent with what polls have shown for a long time," he said. "The
American public is very dissatisfied, and they want the overall numbers brought
down."

Despite the constitutional barrier, Mehlman also saw nothing wrong with the idea
of denying citizenship, arguing, "not everybody should be allowed to wander in
here, have a kid and have them claim citizenship."

Among the poll's other findings, 60 percent of respondents favored using the
National Guard to help the Border Patrol, and 70 percent liked the idea of
charging everyone who enters the country a $1 border fee.

Moreover, 80 percent favored sending illegal immigrants who are convicted of
crimes back to their native countries to serve their sentences rather than to
U.S. prisons, an idea backed Thursday by U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein.

The California Democrat has proposed withholding foreign aid or imposing trade
sanctions on countries that refuse to go along.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Field Poll

GRAPHIC: Chart;
Chart: carl neiburger - mercury news
Source: Field Poll
Californians' view of illegal immigrants
(Chart shows how californians see illegal immigrants effect on the state.)
940610 FR 24A h. bar chart

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 10, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSED LAW WOULD DEPORT JAILED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JAMES R. CARROLL, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: Washington


California Sen. Dianne Feinstein and two other senators from states strained by
the costs of illegal immigration introduced legislation Thursday designed to
return jailed undocumented immigrants to their native countries.

Feinstein, along with fellow Democratic Sens. Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey and
Bob Graham of Florida, proposed legislation that would withhold foreign aid and
impose trade sanctions on nations that refuse to take back undocumented
immigrants who are behind bars in state and federal prisons.

Under the proposed legislation, the Clinton administration would be directed to
implement prisoner transfers with other countries or negotiate treaties to do
so. Countries that do not agree to take back their citizens who have committed
crimes in the United States could lose up to 10 percent of their U.S. aid or be
subjected to trade sanctions.

In California, officials estimate that there are 18,000 undocumented immigrants
in state prisons -- roughly 15 percent of the prison population -- at an annual
cost of $375 million. The largest number of criminals from other countries comes
from Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 13, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STRAINING AT OUR BORDERS 'FRONTLINE' SERIES EXAMINES ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: RON MILLER, Mercury News Television Editor

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 673 words

* FRONTLINE: GO BACK TO MEXICO!

10-11 tonight, CH54;

9-10 Tuesday night, CH9
Tonight's edition of PBS's "Frontline" series begins with this scene: hundreds
of Mexicans waiting for nightfall along their side of the border near San Diego.

As soon as darkness falls, they'll become illegal immigrants.

Californians already know how big an issue this has become in statewide
politics. "Frontline" suggests it's now on its way to becoming an even more
volatile issue as the United States struggles to recover from recession midway
through the 14th consecutive year of an unprecedented immigration explosion.

Though tonight's show -- "Go Back to Mexico!" primarily wrestles with the
problems of illegal immigration from south of the border, immigrants also are
flooding in from Asia, the Caribbean and other parts of the world at a rate of a
million per year -- and roughly a fourth of them are undocumented.

At the heart of the immigration issue is a strong difference of opinion.
Opponents believe illegal immigrants are costing taxpayers in some states such
as California, Florida and Texas billions in services while taking jobs.
Defenders argue undocumented workers stimulate the economy by spending their
money here, performing jobs most Americans don't want and demanding nowhere near
the services they'd want if they were here legally.

"Frontline" correspondent William Langewiesche wants to appear objective, but
his report suggests he's not likely to have a "Go Back to Mexico!" sticker on
his bumper.

In one sequence, Langewiesche humanizes the issue by following a Mexican mother,
Maria Salas, and her infant, who live in Agua Verde, a rural community about
1,000 miles south of the border, as they attempt to join her husband, already
living in Los Angeles.

His point: Maria and her husband are just desperate people trying to find a way
out of a miserable life by trying to find honest jobs in another country. His
report makes it clear they're not sneaky criminals, but just regular people
doing what most of us would do in the same situation.

Still, it's also easy to understand the concerns of DeAnne Erickson, who lives
in a rural area near San Diego and fears the illegal immigrants who have built
shacks in the gullies and ravines around her property, or Gary Gahn, an
unemployed San Diegan who says he lost his $7-an-hour job at a scaffolding
company when his boss discovered he could hire two Mexican immigrants at $5 an
hour each.

The "Frontline" report dismisses the much-publicized El Paso, Texas, experiment
in border barricading as an impractical failure -- even though the program has
virtually stopped immigrants from slipping across the Rio Grande into Texas. The
reason: immigrants still flow across at legal crossings, using fake documents.
Another reason: The El Paso solution won't work in places such as San Diego
where the terrain is rougher and the Pacific Ocean is nearby.

"Frontline" predicts the failure of the United States to interdict illegal
immigrants eventually may result in some kind of national I.D. card, if the
immigration opponents continue to build political strength, crossing party lines
to include such otherwise contrary figures as Gov. Pete Wilson and Sen. Dianne
Feinstein.

That might make it possible to enforce the immigration legislation passed during
the Reagan years, but rendered useless by widespread faking of documents,
"Frontline" suggests. Still, any move toward a national I.D. will be a divisive
issue by itself, the report predicts.

For most California viewers, tonight's "Frontline" may seem a too- familiar
rehash of old arguments. Surprisingly, it fails to deal with the long-range
potential of the NAFTA agreement to reduce immigration by building up employment
in Mexico. That's a serious omission.

It also seems unlikely to defuse much of the tension about the issue that has
built up in California, where a flagging economy has had to absorb an estimated
1.3 million illegal immigrants who now call this state their home.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Border Patrol agents in El Paso.
940613 LI 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 20, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR PLAYING A DIVISIVE TUNE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 311 words


Gov. Pete Wilson has unleashed his entire political machinery to bash the
immigrant population to win votes. Wilson has literally waged a war against the
immigrants under the disguise of "illegal immigrants." By the time average
people get the message, they do not distinguish between the illegal or the legal
immigrants. We're all suffering from the prejudices being generated by our
governor.

Wilson is undoubtedly betting that minorities will not rise up and vote him out
of the office. He is basing his decision on historical voting patterns. He will
continue to bash the immigrant population so long as the immigrant community
continues to remain silent on the issue.

Sadly, elected officials throughout the state, including minority community
representatives, have also remained silent on the issue of immigration. They are
afraid of the immigration backlash. Their lack of participation is helping to
keep the fire burning on this issue.

Thus, it is not surprising that the Field Poll shows the majority of voters
blame our state's problems on the "illegal" immigrants ("Half would deny illegal
immigrants schools, citizenship," Front page, June 10). When only one side of
the issue is presented with half-truths, the public will generally buy into it.
Fear tactics work in politics and Wilson is taking full advantage of them.

Immigration is a bogus issue created by Wilson for his own selfish interest. The
immigrants who have helped build our country must stand up and denounce Wilson's
divisive tactics.

While we need to better control our borders, and enforce the immigration laws,
we also need to celebrate the successes and contributions of immigrants to our
country. Our elected officials cannot afford to remain silent on this issue. If
we do not stand up, we will pay for it dearly in the future.

-- Mohinder S. Mann

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: PAUL DUGINSKI
940620 ED 6B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 20, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRUTH OF THE BORDER IMMIGRANTS ARE NOT THE DRAIN THAT WILSON PORTRAYS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 328 words

"I love immigrants. Legal, illegal -- they're not to be despised."

-- New York Gov. Mario Cuomo

"If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be in an undocumented
status, you're one of the people who we want in this city."

-- New York City

Mayor Rudolph Giuliani

"California has had enough, and it's time to stop illegal immigration."

-- California Gov. Pete Wilson
MAYBE it's the Lady with the Torch who reminds them, but New York's political
heavyweights appreciate the contributions of immigrants, legal or illegal.
Republican Gov. Pete Wilson and some Democrats up and down the state choose to
exaggerate the costs of immigration and ignore its economic benefits.

They would throw illegal immigrant children out of schools, militarize the
border and deny citizenship to U.S.-born children of immigrants. What the
immigration-cost debate needs is less bluster and more objectivity.

A good deal of good information arrived last week from the Urban Institute, a
respected and non-partisan Washington think tank. Demographers Jeffrey Passel
and Michael Fix combed census data and scrutinized existing studies. Their
study, "Immigration and Immigrants: Setting the Record Straight," lives up to
its title but is careful not to overreach.

As Mercury News editorial writer Joe Rodriguez explains on the Commentary page,
Passel and Fix dispel some of the myths of immigration. Overall, immigrants are
not a drain on local economies and generally increase the labor-market
opportunities of Americans. Most illegal immigrants aren't Mexican. They come in
legally and stay after their visas expire. Immigration to stagnant economies
lowers wages slightly and stretches local public support, but the bad effects
aren't serious enough to justify the immigrant- bashing.

We trust New Yorkers Cuomo and Giuliani will welcome this report. We don't think
the governor of the state with the largest number of legal and illegal
immigrants will bother.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS
See also related story on P. 7B of this section

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 23, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'INVITATION' TO ILLEGAL ENTRANTS CRITICIZED

BYLINE: JAMES R. CARROLL, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: Washington


California Gov. Pete Wilson's plea for more federal aid to offset the costs of
illegal immigration came under sharp criticism Wednesday from a key senator in
congressional budget decisions.

Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., said a 1993 state-produced pamphlet on maternity
benefits was "an open invitation" to undocumented immigrants to apply for state
assistance.

Among other things, the brochure stated that "if you are pregnant, you may get
Medi-Cal even if: you are not lawfully in the U.S.; you are not a U.S. citizen;
you have applied for amnesty; you were denied Medi-Cal in the past." The
pamphlet was distributed in English and Spanish by the California Department of
Health Services.

"This is not an authorized directive," Wilson told Byrd in a hearing on
immigration costs held by the Senate Appropriations Committee. "I have not seen
this."

"How does a state agency get away with that if it's not authorized?" pressed
Byrd, the committee chairman.

Brochure written in 1992

The governor's aides later said Wilson may have been confused during the
hearing, and in fact did know about the brochure.

Jennifer Nelson, spokeswoman for the health services agency in Sacramento, said
the brochure was put together in late 1992.

Earlier this year, she said, "we looked at that brochure, which stated the
facts, and removed some of the statements meant as outreach for some of the
people eligible for this program."

Under a 1986 federal law, illegal immigrants are eligible for emergency health
care, which includes maternity care.

Wilson had come before the Senate panel to argue, as he had in other Washington
appearances this year, that illegal immigration is solely a federal
responsibility and that the states should be reimbursed for the costs of
prisons, health care and education related to undocumented immigrants. He
appeared with governors of two other states hit hard by illegal immigration,
Lawton Chiles, D-Fla., and Fife Symington, R.-Ariz.

Widespread increases

The governor said the cost of health care for illegal immigrants in California
had grown 18-fold since 1988, from $21.1 million to $394.9 million.

Education costs for illegal immigrants have grown in the same period from $1.1
billion to $1.6 billion, and the cost of imprisoning illegal immigrants who have
committed crimes has gone from $104.3 million to $372.8 million.

Despite his criticisms of the health care brochure, Byrd said he was sympathetic
to the states' arguments for reimbursement. But, he said, "Mother Hubbard's
cupboard is almost bare."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sen. Harry Reid, left, talks with governors from three states: Fife Symington of
Arizona, Pete Wilson of California and Lawton Chiles of Florida.
940623 FR 18A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 24, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INITIATIVE ON ILLEGAL ENTRANTS QUALIFIES

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1214 words


The "Save Our State" initiative that would force schools, hospitals, police
departments and welfare agencies to identify illegal immigrants and turn them
over to authorities qualified Thursday for California's November ballot.

The proposition has Gov. Pete Wilson's backing and wide public support -- the
secretary of state's office validated 436,706 signatures, more than 50,000 above
the total needed. But public officials from school principals to immigration
officers voice grave reservations.

Many fear it would create a legal and logistical nightmare. And some warn that
if it becomes law, it could be so harmful to children, the sick and others that
they would refuse to comply.

"I have been here in this clinic for 22 years and we have never, never refused
services to anyone," said Mary Garcia, executive director of the Mountain View
Community Health Center, which receives public financing. "We never ask if they
are citizens or legal residents. For us to start asking and reporting -- no, I
wouldn't do it. I can't do it."

Ronald Prince, co-chairman of the initiative, pooh-poohed such concerns, along
with predictions that it would be too burdensome for public agencies. "You can
conjure up all sorts of hypothetical situations that really have no meaning," he
said. What's important, he said, is that illegal immigrants are "devastating the
state of California," and that must change.

Nevertheless, even some U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
question the measure's practicality.

"I can see just gut-wrenching problems," said INS official Duke Austin. He said
the agency lacks not only the personnel to handle a surge of new queries or
reports about illegal immigrants, but also the jail space to house more illegal
entrants. "Philosophically, we don't want to see states do this," he said.

Who is legal?

One big problem, critics say, would be verifying who is legal.

Under federal law, immigrants looking for work can present 29 different
documents to prove their legal status. That has left many employers confused,
leading them often to reject legitimate identification.

If that same confusion results in legal individuals being turned away from
public agencies, experts say, the agencies could be deluged with lawsuits.

The proliferation of fake birth certificates and immigration documents poses
another problem. The initiative would make it a felony to use, sell, make or
distribute the phony papers. But using fake documents already is a felony under
federal law. And the initiative's passage not only is unlikely to end the
practice, critics say, but also could make it worse.

Among the measure's provisions:

* Public schools. Schools with grades K-12 would have to verify the legal status
of all new students by Jan. 1. And they would have to determine the legality of
all others -- as well as the students' parents and guardians -- by Jan. 1, 1996.

If a student is "determined or reasonably suspected" to be in the country
illegally, schools would have to tell state officials and the INS within 45
days, and expel illegal students after 90 days.

Similar rules would apply to post-secondary schools, except that illegal
students would have to be removed by early next year.

The measure is expected to provoke a major court battle if it passes.

Critics say it violates a federal privacy law barring release of student data.
More important, it conflicts with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court decision that
illegal immigrants have a right to public education.

Initiative backers say they hope to provoke a court fight and a new high- court
ruling.

* Law enforcement. The initiative would require all state police agencies to
"fully cooperate" with the INS, by reporting any person they arrest who they
suspect is an illegal immigrant. It also would prohibit local officials from
discouraging such cooperation through so-called sanctuary laws that have been
enacted in recent years.

Federal law already encourages police to report illegal immigrants to the INS.
And some -- including Larry Todd, Los Gatos' police chief and president of the
California Police Chiefs Association -- see no problem in requiring that
cooperation. But others do.

Many law enforcement agencies -- including the San Jose Police Department --
allow officers to tell the INS about illegal immigrants but do not advocate it.
And San Jose Chief Louis Cobarruviaz said there is a reason for that.

Forcing police to report illegal immigrants "would really cost us a lot of
cooperation from the minority communities," he said. "If you start checking
their immigration status, that's very offensive to a lot of people."

Ruben Diaz, president of the National Latino Peace Officers Association and an
assistant sheriff in Santa Clara County, also fears some police officers would
use the law to blackmail illegal immigrants by threatening to report them to the
INS unless they provided tips or favors.

"All you're doing is impacting the security of the people (because) other crimes
will then be ignored," he said.

* Health care. Under the initiative, anyone -- regardless of status -- could get
emergency care at public-health centers, which is now the case under federal
law. But it would provide non-emergency care only to those who are legal.

Aside from the potential problems of determining who is legal and what
constitutes an emergency, critics mostly worry that the initiative could spark a
public-health crisis.

They doubt claims by initiative backers that it would prompt many illegal
residents to flee the country. And they say denying non-emergency care to those
who do not leave could cause many people to become so sick that they eventually
would require emergency care.

As a result, said George Cate, legislative advocate for the California
Association of Hospitals and Health Systems, "it's probably going to cost more
in the long run and it's going to do more harm to the patient."

* Welfare programs. Critics say a provision barring illegal immigrants from
welfare benefits and requiring officials to report them is not needed.

Federal law already denies illegal immigrants most welfare benefits, except for
some school lunch programs, some prenatal services and Medi-Cal emergency health
care for the poor.

Moreover, federal law already requires welfare officials to check the status of
clients through an INS data base.

Even though the system is in place, it is not a foolproof way to stop illegal
immigrants from getting some benefits. INS official Austin said the system often
contains inaccurate data because the INS lacks money to improve it. And the
initiative would not change that.

Would it save money?

Apart from these major concerns, there also is disagreement over how much money
"Save Our State" would save.

Proponents have estimated the yearly savings at up to $5 billion. But the
state's legislative analyst and finance director have put the figure "in excess
of" $300 million, and they say the initiative could cost school districts "tens
of millions of dollars" in the first two years and more than $10 million a year
after that.

Whatever its impact on government, the initiative's fate may ultimately hinge on
how upset Californians are over illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 27, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SAVE US FROM HYSTERIA SOS INITIATIVE EXAGGERATES PROBLEM, OFFERS QUACK CURE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 340 words


THE "Save Our State" initiative will be no salvation even if it passes in
November and drives every illegal immigrant out of California the next day.

California is not being "devastated" by illegal immigrants, as the hysterical
claims of the initiative's proponents would have it. And turning school
administrators, hospital officials and police officers into immigration agents
will merely distract them from their more important tasks of educating, healing
and protecting.

The initiative that has qualified for the November ballot raises the specter of
a state under siege by illegal immigrants, sponging off the taxpayers by having
babies at public hospitals, sending the kids to school and filling prison cells.

It's a paranoid vision, a gross exaggeration of the effects of illegal
immigrants in California.

Illegal immigrants do add to the costs of providing some government services.
They also add to the economy by working long hours at low wages, paying taxes
and infusing the workforce with new energy.

The initiative proposes a number of impractical and unlawful solutions:

School officials would be required to verify the legal status of students, a
difficult and expensive assignment. More important, the Supreme Court in 1982
ruled that illegal immigrants have a right to public education.

Hospital personnel would be similarly burdened. And the rule could cause
patients to show up only when they are critically, and more expensively, ill. In
some immigrant communities, the stipulation that police officers report suspects
they believe are illegal could drive away sources that detectives rely on to
solve serious crimes.

We will be examining all these issues in more detail in the months before the
election. We don't suggest that illegal immigrants cause no problems. But the
initiative is wrong because its fundamental presumption is wrong.

Underlying it is a foolish and narcissistic notion that except for them, the
illegal immigrants, we would be in fine shape. This is insidious nonsense.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 30, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WORSEN CALIFORNIA'S WOES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 257 words


The "Save us from hysteria" editorial on the "Save Our State" initiative (June
27) has misstated and misrepresented the supporters of the ballot measure.

Supporters of SOS do not think that without illegal aliens we would be in fine
shape, because we do not blame all of our social problems on illegal
immigration. And you can't quote one person, public or private, who has made
that assertion. But we do say quite clearly that all of our social problems are
made worse by the millions of illegal aliens in our state.

We are constantly accused of blaming all our problems on illegal aliens by the
illegal alien profiteers and poverty pimps who make a business out of servicing
this large and growing population. They do not have logical or lawful arguments
for supporting illegals so they attack us.

The real insidious nonsense is the belief that illegal aliens pay more in taxes
than they take in services. My response is "Who cares? They are here illegally."
And studies are released from counties in California and universities around the
country that prove that the costs of illegals is much higher than any tax
revenue they generate.

Save Our State is just the right medicine to alert the voters to this real
problem in California and send a wake-up call to elected officials. And those
running for office had better pay attention. The illegal alien profiteers and
poverty pimps who benefit from illegal immigration can cry all they want, the
citizens want action.

-- Rick Oltman

Marin ImmiGration Reform Association

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the Editor

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    July 1, 1994 Friday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

COMMUNITY LEADERS ASSAIL 'S.O.S.' INITIATIVE MEASURE AIMS TO DENY ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS EDUCATION, HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 473 words


A group of South Bay educators, politicians, church leaders and labor officials
Thursday denounced the "Save Our State" initiative, which is designed to rid
California of illegal immigrants and which qualified last week for the November
ballot.

"This isn't good public health, this is stupid," said Santa Clara County
supervisor and congressional candidate Zoe Lofgren of the initiative.

"It is wrong," added the Rev. John Freesemann, who is board president of the
Council of Churches. "It is full of bigotry and prejudice and fear- mongering at
its worst. And it must be stopped."

If passed, the initiative would require schools, hospitals, police and other
public agencies to determine the legal status of those they serve or arrest, and
report suspected illegal immigrants to state and federal authorities. It also
would deny undocumented immigrants access to public education and to
non-emergency health care, among other things.

Supporters of the initiative say the state wastes several billion dollars a year
on public services for illegal immigrants. But critics say the proposed law
could create even worse problems for California.

Lofgren argued the initiative could cause serious public health problems, by
forbidding routine or follow-up care to undocumented persons with infectious
diseases. "This initiative," she warned "would prevent public agencies from
providing treatment to tuberculosis patients if their papers were not in order."

Some speakers at the session, organized by immigrant-rights advocates,
criticized the idea of expelling illegal immigrant children from schools.

"We're going to have to mobilize our communities to defeat this crazy
initiative," said Joe Coto, superintendent of Eastside Union High School
District. He said as long as he is superintendent, "we will never do anything to
deny any youngster" an education.

Others opposing the initiative included Bishop Pierre DuMaine of the San Jose
Catholic Diocese, and San Jose Vice Mayor Blanca Alvarado.

"This type of initiative can never be allowed to pass (because) this state and
this entire country (would) lose too much," Alvarado said.

Already, a statewide coalition of groups that include the California Teachers
Association and California Medical Association has announced plans to spend up
to $4 million to defeat the proposal.

But the initiative's backers voice confidence that voters will approve it in
November. They say most Californians are fed up with the failure of public
officials to deter illegal immigrants.

During a news conference in Sacramento Wednesday, Assemblyman Richard Mountjoy,
R-Arcadia, who is one of the initiative's key supporters, said opponents of the
measure "can spend all the money they want . . . This is an issue that is in the
hearts and minds of the people of California."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version ran on page 1B of the Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Supervisor Zoe Lofgren
940701 LO 4B P 1
DRAWING: and Eastside Union High School District Superintendent Joe Coto
denounced the initiative.
940701 LO 4B P 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 20, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOCUMENTING THE SOS REALITY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 419 words


I am appalled at how California's illegal immigrants have been blamed for many
of the state's mounting fiscal difficulties.

Gov. Pete Wilson has complained of the almost $2.3 billion spent annually on
services for the state's undocumented residents. In response, the "Save Our
State" (SOS) initiative is on November's ballot. Supporters hope that ending the
eligibility of undocumented residents for such benefits as public education and
non-emergency health care will eliminate the incentives enticing more immigrants
to enter the United States illegally.

Two unfounded assumptions underlie SOS. The first is the belief that spending
$2.3 billion every year on California's illegal residents is a waste of the
state's limited resources. According to a 1992 study, the illegal residents of
Los Angeles County alone contributed almost $1 billion in assorted taxes during
the 1991-'92 fiscal year.

The study assumes the illegal-immigrant population of Los Angeles is 700,000,
less than half of the 1.6 million undocumented aliens conservatively estimated
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to live in California. Thus, the
total tax contributions made by the state's illegal residents are probably in
excess of $2 billion.

The second belief is that illegal immigration can be explained by considering
only those factors that may entice someone to enter the country. People cross
the border not only because they are pulled by the prospect of employment,
education and health care, but also because they are pushed by hardships in
their native countries.

SOS would deter only those who know the kind of future they face as illegal
immigrants. How much does the average person traversing the Rio Grande in the
dead of night know about the benefits he or she will receive?

Finally, California's difficulties in financing services for illegal residents
may not originate in the number of undocumented immigrants involved but in how
their tax contributions are redistributed back into the community.

Of the almost $1 billion contributed in taxes by Los Angeles County's
undocumented residents in 1991-'92, only about $36 million returned to the
county. That amount was insufficient to cover the estimated $308 million it
spent on services for its illegal immigrant population. Because SOS does not
change the process of redistributing tax revenues, it will not address the
primary cause of the state's fiscal difficulties.

-- Luis Albert Tampe

Santa Clara

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: PAUL KOLSTI
940720 ED 10B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 23, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BROWN: WILSON SWITCHED ON IMMIGRATION AS A SENATOR, HE APPROVED LAWS TO LEGALIZE
ILLEGAL ENTRANTS, SHE SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Kathleen Brown went to Gov. Pete Wilson's hometown Friday to attack him on one
of his strongest campaign issues, accusing him of flip-flopping on illegal
immigration.

Brown accused Wilson of once supporting programs to allow undocumented workers
to stay in the country and receive taxpayer-financed health care. She said he
also opposed national identification cards he now supports.

"I'm saying Pete Wilson is a phony on the issue of illegal immigration," Brown
said.

Wilson spokesman Dan Schnur discounted the criticism, saying Brown was
distorting Wilson's record. "It's not going to change the fact that she's on the
wrong side of this issue, and people in California know it," Schnur said.

A poll published Friday showed Wilson's immigration platform, which he has made
central to his campaign, was one of five issues of greatest importance to his
supporters.

Brown holds a narrow lead over Wilson in the polls, and she got higher marks
from her supporters on 22 other issues than the governor got from his backers.
However, immigration has proved to be a key issue in the race. Wilson is backing
a November voter initiative that would deny public education and social and
health programs to illegal immigrants.

As a U.S. senator, Wilson sponsored legislation in 1985 that allowed
undocumented farmworkers to remain in the country legally to work in the fields.
The specifics of Wilson's provision were altered in the bill Congress approved
in 1986.

Brown said the Special Agricultural Workers Program allowed the "legalization"
of more than 1 million illegal immigrants and is "one of the largest loopholes
ever written into U.S. immigration law."

She accused Wilson of acting on behalf of agricultural interests, who gave him
$357,734 in campaign contributions while he was a senator.

Brown said the program accounts for $462 million of the $3.5 billion the
governor is demanding the federal government pay California for the cost of
immigration.

Wilson's version would not have allowed any foreign farmworkers to become legal
residents, and it would have required them to return home each year to claim a
portion of their wages.

Brown also criticized Wilson for twice voting for a federal budget in 1986 that
included health care benefits for illegal immigrants.

"Before Pete Wilson woke up for this election, he called national ID cards a
'lousy idea.' Does Pete Wilson support national ID cards only in election years,
and if so, what will he be saying next year?"

Schnur said Brown was confusing Wilson's "legal immigration" guest worker
program with illegal immigration. "It's tough to take any criticism on this
issue seriously from somebody who doesn't think illegal immigration is the cause
of any problems in California."

Schnur said Wilson voted for the 1986 budget because it was the first to cut
federal spending. "To pull one line out of that and hold a voting representative
accountable for that is at best misleading and at worst reprehensible."

Schnur said Wilson formally changed his position last year to support
tamper-proof cards as a way to crack down on employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants.

"The world's a different place than it was 12 years ago. The problem of illegal
immigration as we know it today barely existed at that point."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 3, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT CALIFORNIANS WORRY ABOUT MOST CRIME, THE ECONOMY HEAD LIST, POLL FINDS

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 740 words


Crime remains the top concern of Californians, and the economy trails just
behind. But illegal immigration -- a hot-button issue in the races for governor
and U.S. Senate -- is far less compelling, according to a new Field Poll.

AIDS, job creation, public schools and illegal drug use are the other issues
that Californians cite most often as their leading concerns.

Crime also topped the Field Poll's list in 1993. In 1992, the economy ranked
first and crime placed fourth, behind AIDS and schools.

The 1994 survey of 847 Californians, conducted July 12-17, found sharp
differences in the way people responded to a list of issues, depending on
gender, ideology, party and age.

For example, 72 percent of Republicans say they are concerned about illegal
immigration, making it their No. 3 issue. But just 51 percent of Democrats cite
illegal immigration. For them, the issue ranks 21st.

Similarly, 83 percent of women say they are concerned about illegal drug use,
making it their No. 2 issue. But just 57 percent of men cite illegal drug use as
a concern, making it their 12th-ranked issue.

The Field Poll survey, with a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage
points, offered a bit more good news for Republican Gov. Pete Wilson than for
Democratic Treasurer Kathleen Brown -- rivals in the governor's race.

That's because Wilson's position in favor of the death penalty and his
reputation as tough on criminals -- items that reflect the top concern in the
poll -- are powerful reasons voters give for supporting him. Brown's views on
criminal justice issues, on the other hand, are not important reasons for
voters' support of her.

The Field Institute read a list of issues to respondents and asked them to say
whether they were extremely concerned, somewhat concerned, not too concerned or
not at all concerned about each issue.

As a result, some issues that have great public resonance but little political
impact, concerns of deep public distress but of little effect on voting behavior
-- such as controlling the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome --
registered as top issues.

If voters feel that an issue will be handled the same regardless of who's
elected, "then it's not a cutting issue in an election," said Mark DiCamillo,
director of the California Poll.

As Bill Carrick, consultant to Sen. Dianne Feinstein, put it: "People don't see
one candidate as for the spread of AIDS or as out to slash education funding.
They're not voting issues."

At the same time, the survey indicated illegal immigration -- an issue that
Feinstein, Rep. Michael Huffington and Wilson all have tried to exploit -- is
far less powerful than their campaigns have made it appear.

Overall, 60 percent of Californians say they are concerned about illegal
immigration -- placing the issue below health care, taxes, air and water
pollution, higher education, welfare, unemployment and the state budget deficit.

Among registered voters, illegal immigration is slightly more significant as an
issue, being named as a top concern by 64 percent, for a ninth-place ranking.
The issue also deeply concerns 70 percent of the conservatives (seventh) and 60
percent of men (sixth). But it is far less important to middle-of-the-roaders,
liberals and women.

"It's an emotional issue," said DiCamillo, "an issue where a particular segment
of the public is extremely concerned, giving it a higher level of saliency. . .
. It's a very Republican partisan issue."

There were few differences between those registered to vote and those not
registered. The state budget deficit and welfare were somewhat more important to
voters, while unemployment and protecting the environment were significantly
more important to non-voters.

Among women, taxes and illegal immigration rank only 16th and 17th; among men,
these tie for sixth.

Brown campaign manager Clint Reilly said the Field Poll's finding on immigration
reflected his own polling. "I don't want to say it's insignificant," he said.
"To a lot of people, it's an important issue. But our polling is corroborating
what you're finding in the Field Poll."

But Larry Thomas, spokesman for Wilson's campaign, disagreed with the suggestion
that illegal immigration is not as powerful an issue as previously advertised.

"There are more people in the state who feel personally impacted by illegal
immigration than they do by the state budget deficit," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chart (not in database)

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
California's top concern: crime
Crime tops the list of Californians' concerns for the second year in a row,
according to a Field Poll released today. The economy was the leading concern in
1992.
The Field Institute surveyed 847 California adults July 12 to 17. As part of the
survey, respondents were asked how concerned they are about a list of 27
problems confronting the state. The statistical margin of error for the sample
is plus or minus 5 percentage points.
Source: Field Institute
940803 CA 3B 2; h. bar chart

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 16, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEDI-CAL APPLICANTS MUST REVEAL STATUS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 83 words


Illegal immigrants, who are eligible for emergency medical services and
pregnancy care under Medi-Cal, can be required to declare their undocumented
status when applying for care, says a state appeals court in San Francisco. In a
ruling made public Monday, the 1st District Court of Appeal said a 1992 state
law required all Medi-Cal applicants to disclose their Social Security number --
which undocumented immigrants lack -- or to state that they have no
"satisfactory immigration status."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 16, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BIGGER BROTHER NATIONAL I.D. CARD TO GRAB A FEW JANITORS IS OVERKILL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 383 words


IS this nation so threatened by illegal immigrant janitors that Americans would
give big government more power to watch and control all citizens?

A federal commission is urging the Clinton administration to set up a data bank
for detecting illegal immigrants with phony Social Security numbers. Five
states, including California, will be test sites.

Under the plan, employers would telephone a central computer with a job
applicant's Social Security number. The computer would flag numbers that are
made up or names not authorized to work under that number.

The politicians pushing this verification say it's only for employment purposes.
It's not like having a national identity card, they say. But what else can you
call a card that is required before anyone can be hired?

For civil liberties reasons, the Social Security card has never been allowed to
become an I.D. The fear is real. With one flip of the switch, any Congress in
the future can turn the social security registry into a national citizens
catalog. All it would need is a "national security" excuse. The essence of civil
liberties is to contain the government's pow-er to observe and control citizens.
This proposal would expand the government's power of surveillance.

Do we really need a national I.D. card?

The most reliable research shows there were 2.5 million illegal immigrants in
the country in 1990 -- only 1 percent of the population. They do work Americans
won't. They pay taxes. And if their taxes, paid mostly to state and federal
governments, were properly channeled to local agencies, there would be no
argument that illegal immigrants burden local services.

The perception that the foreigners are overwhelming us is actually due to legal
immigration. Ten million immigrants are expected to enter legally in the 1990s.
But the number is not as great as it seems. In 1907, immigrants added about 3
percent to the nation's labor force. To have an equal effect in 1994,
immigration would have to reach 10 times the current level, according to the
Urban Institute. Immigrant workers aren't displacing citizens.

In short, the proposal for a computerized Social Security registry fails in
principle and practicality. It threatens civil liberties and won't create or
save jobs for Americans. Spike it.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 17, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AID FOR STATES WITH JAILED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: Washington


California and a handful of other states incarcerating large numbers of illegal
immigrants would get a share of $130 million in funds under a proposal approved
by House and Senate negotiators.

The money was set aside by conferees who worked to reconcile differences in
versions of an appropriations package for the Commerce, Justice and State
departments.

The Senate earlier had approved an amendment setting aside $350 million for
states with large illegal-immigrant populations in prison.

California Gov. Pete Wilson said Tuesday that it was "encouraging to see signs
Washington is waking up to its financial responsibility for illegal
immigration."

But he said the $130 million was "woefully inadequate."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 25, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON'S RHETORIC REFLECTS TURNABOUT ON IMMIGRATION ANALYSTS SAY GOVERNOR WAS ON
OTHER SIDE IN '80S

BYLINE: SCOTT THURM, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2198 words


With his trips to the border, lawsuits against the federal government and
attempts to deny health care and schooling, Gov. Pete Wilson has made a fierce
assault against illegal immigrants a cornerstone of his re-election campaign.
Now listen to another Pete Wilson, the San Diego mayor who in 1981 said
undocumented workers need government help because they "pay taxes like everyone
else." Or the U.S. senator who worked tirelessly through the 1980s to legalize
hundreds of thousands of Mexicans who would sneak across the border to pick
crops on California farms; his efforts contributed to a 1986 law that allowed
more than 1 million foreigners to win legal U.S. residency, many fraudulently.

As a senator, Wilson also voted for one of the federal mandates about which he
now complains: a requirement that states provide, and pick up half the cost for,
emergency medical care for illegal immigrants.

Democratic challenger Kathleen Brown -- whom Wilson has attacked for not wanting
to deny medical care to illegal immigrants and kick their children out of school
-- accuses Wilson of an election-year conversion to blame immigrants for
California's problems.

In a speech last month, Brown called Wilson a "phony" on immigration issues. "He
has done nothing but play politics with the issue of illegal immigration," she
said in San Diego.

Wilson insists there's nothing phony about his concern, which dates to his 11
years as a border-city mayor. But aides acknowledged that Wilson's views have
evolved as he's watched the financial and social burdens climb along with public
unease.

With illegal immigrants costing state government twice as much as six years ago,
Wilson's views are "a reflection of California taxpayers," said Leslie Goodman,
the governor's communications director. "The temperature is rising, and that's
evident everywhere you go."

Wilson says he's been careful to distinguish between legal immigrants, whom he
continues to welcome, and illegal immigrants, whom he accuses of draining state
resources. But in the murky, ever-shifting world of immigration law, where
immigrants can be illegal one minute and legal the next, these are not always
worthwhile distinctions. When independent analysts examine Wilson's record, many
see a shift.

Rhetoric 'disingenuous'

"I do find his anti-immigrant rhetoric somewhat disingenuous," said Harris
Miller, a former congressional staffer who worked on the immigration bill and
now lobbies Congress on behalf of farmers. "For him to claim he had nothing to
do with the current state of affairs, I find that somewhat perplexing."

The centerpiece of the dispute about Wilson's record on immigration is his work
on the massive 1986 reform law. The crux of that measure was a grand trade-off:
Amnesty, ultimately including citizenship, for illegal immigrants who had been
in the U.S. for a long time, coupled with tough penalties against employers for
hiring illegal entrants and stricter border enforcement.

From the moment the idea was first floated in Congress in the early 1980s, fruit
and vegetable growers who relied on temporary workers -- including many illegal
immigrants -- viewed it as a recipe for disaster. They feared crops rotting in
the field while they filled out forms seeking permission to import additional
workers.

Wilson expressed sympathy for the growers even before he was elected to the U.S.
Senate in 1982. During that campaign, he endorsed a "guest worker" program that
would allow Mexicans to work legally, albeit temporarily, on American farms.

In stunning contrast with his current rhetoric, Wilson was quoted in Mexican
newspapers in 1981 as saying that undocumented workers were essential to the
California economy and that "they pay taxes like everyone else." While
campaigning in 1982, he said legalizing foreign farmworkers would be "an
economic benefit," even though they would become eligible for public services
like health care.

Once elected, Wilson became a leading advocate for California farmers' efforts
to amend the immigration-reform bill. And he was amply rewarded for his labors:
Wilson received more than $600,000 in contributions from farm- related companies
and political-action committees in the 1980s, according to the National Library
on Money and Politics, a private non-partisan group that analyzes political
contributions.

'Wilson workers'

When the Senate considered the immigration bill in 1985, Wilson won inclusion of
a guest worker program, allowing up to 350,000 foreigners to work on U.S. farms.
These "Wilson workers" -- as they were known on Capitol Hill -- would not have
been eligible for citizenship and would have had to return home each year; in
fact, 20 percent of their wages would have been withheld, to be claimed in the
worker's home country.

When the House of Representatives took up the immigration bill a year later, the
guest-worker provision threatened to derail the entire measure. Democrats in the
House worried that Wilson's proposal would lead to exploitation of foreign
farmworkers, similar to the despised bracero program of the 1940s and 1950s. At
the last minute, they replaced Wilson's provision with a more liberal plan to
legalize undocumented laborers who had worked as few as 90 days on a farm in
1986.

Wilson voted for the bill, calling it "probably the best bill that this
frustrating process of compromise can achieve."

In practice, however, almost nothing in the 1986 law has worked according to
plan: The tougher border enforcement never materialized, the penalties against
employers were few and far between, and the agricultural-worker provision became
an easy route to U.S. citizenship. Almost 1.3 million foreigners applied for
U.S. residency under that provision -- 80 percent of them from Mexico, and half
in California. That's about four times the most widely accepted estimates of
illegal farmworkers in the country, and a 1992 presidential commission concluded
that the program was marked by "significant amounts of fraud." The commission
concluded that the notion of a special legalization plan for farmworkers was
"fundamentally flawed."

These days, Wilson disclaims authorship of the farmworker provision, arguing
that his plan was "hijacked" by House Democrats. But immigration experts who
watched the debate say Wilson should be held partly responsible because there
might not have been any special farmworker provision if he hadn't tinkered with
the bill in the Senate.

"Clearly, he contributed to the problem he now faces," said Philip Martin, a
professor of agricultural economics at the University of California, Davis. "But
the linkage is not quite as direct."

Moreover, Wilson did not walk away from the farmworker provision once it became
law. He wrote letters to the attorney general and Immigration and Naturalization
Service urging them to interpret the provision as broadly as possible. In 1987,
he sponsored an amendment that gave foreign farmworkers more time to apply for
the special amnesty.

Cited in 1990 campaign

And, as recently as his 1990 campaign, Wilson was still boasting of the "Wilson
amendment" that "assures California growers a continuing supply of legal workers
to harvest crops."

In the past 18 months, however, illegal immigration has vaulted to the top of
Wilson's agenda. He's made dramatic border visits as far away as Texas, blamed
cuts in state services on the costs of caring for illegal immigrants, and aired
television commercials showing Mexicans running across the border while a
narrator says, "They keep coming."

The campaign taps a deep vein of public discontent. Polls show two-thirds of
Californians think illegal immigrants are hurting the state and there's strong
support for denying such services as schools and health care. Among registered
voters who say they'll vote for Wilson, more cite immigration as an important
issue than any other subject.

With much fanfare, Wilson has sued the federal government to recover $2.4
billion he says California is spending each year to jail, educate and care for
illegal immigrants. The governor reasons that guarding the border is a federal
responsibility, so Washington should pick up the tab for its failures.

But Wilson, as a senator, voted to impose one of the requirements that he now
wants Congress to repeal: forcing states to provide emergency medical treatment
to illegal entrants. The provision -- which also required the federal government
to pick up half the tab -- was part of a large 1986 deficit-cutting package.

Through the aides, Wilson said he voted for the bill because it reduced the
deficit, expanded health-care coverage for pregnant women and children, and
avoided cuts in Social Security benefits. Forcing Washington to pay for some of
the medical costs for illegal immigrants was a bonus, Goodman said, because "50
percent is better than nothing at all." And Wilson aides point to three other
occasions on which Wilson voted to free states from serving illegal immigrants
or to require full federal reimbursement.

But the 1986 vote on the deficit measure aptly demonstrates Wilson's shifting
priorities over the years. Eight years ago, with the immigration bill promising
control over the borders and other goodies in the deficit package, Wilson
accepted the health-care requirement for states. Now, with unemployment at 9
percent and the border still porous, those same medical services have become a
magnetic lure drawing illegal immigrants across the border.

To some, Wilson's shifts are emblematic of his state. U.S. Sen. Alan Simpson,
R-Wyo., was a primary author of the 1986 immigration bill and opposed efforts by
Wilson and others to add special farmworker provisions.

Specifying that he was not criticizing Wilson, Simpson reflected in a recent
interview on the changed public mood: "The history of California is a history of
holding out your hands (to immigrants) in one decade and closing them in the
next."

WHAT PETE WILSON SAID . . .

THEN

(box)Undocumented workers comprise 15 percent of San Diego County's population
and "they pay taxes like everyone else."

-- San Diego Union, June 3, 1981, quoting Mexican newspaper reports

* "We should have a legalized guest worker program. There's just no question our
economy depends very heavily on Mexican nationals." If workers were legalized,
"I think, on balance, we would find they work out to be an economic benefit."

-- Interview with Santa Monica Evening Outlook, May 20, 1982

* "The illegal status of these workers places them in a vulnerable position that
subjects them to the possibility at least of cruel exploitation. . . . The
illegal worker has little in the way of recourse against unscrupulous employers.
That has to change. A civilized society cannot tolerate the kind of thinking
that has been going on because of this illegal status."

-- On the Senate floor, Sept. 12, 1985

* "(The Wilson guest-worker provision would) give the kind of assurance that men
and women who are willing to work, and work hard, in the sun and in the weather,
will at least have the peace of mind to know that their hard work will not be
interrupted by a raid, that there will be no swooping down upon them in the
fields, that they will not be compelled to live in holes, like animals, fleeing
from other animals hunting. This is not a situation we should tolerate in the
United States."

-- On the Senate floor, Sept. 16, 1985

* "The 'Wilson amendment' to the 1986 immigration reform bill -- a 'political
coup' according to the Golden State Report -- assures California growers a
continuing supply of legal workers to harvest crops."

-- 1990 campaign document

................................

NOW

* "(Illegal immigration) is causing us to spend money not for legal residents,
who need services, but instead we are required by federal law to provide almost
$3 billion worth of services to illegal immigrants. We simply cannot continue
that."

-- News conference, Aug. 18, 1993

* "California has had enough, and it's time to stop illegal immigration."

-- Announcing lawsuit against the federal government, April 29, 1994

* "They keep coming. Two million illegal immigrants in California. The federal
government won't stop them at the border, yet requires us to pay billions to
take care of them."

-- Narrator in Pete Wilson TV commercial

* "I'm working to deny state services to illegal immigrants. Enough is enough."

-- Wilson in the same commercial

* "These are cuts that I don't think anybody wants to make. But they are cuts
that we will have to make because of the cost of illegal immigration imposed on
California by the federal government."

-- Announcing additional cuts in his proposed state budget, June 13, 1994

* "The average family of four in California must pay more than $400 a year in
state taxes just to finance services for illegal immigrants."

-- Radio address, June 18, 1994

* "While they intend no harm, their numbers threaten jobs for legal residents,
and -- because of their impact on state budgets -- they threaten the quality and
availability of state services to needy legal residents."

-- Testimony to Congress, June 21, 1994

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Additional information attached to end of this story.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 26, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSAL TO 'TAG' ILLEGAL ENTRANTS BORDER WOULD BE DUSTED WITH FLUORESCENT
MATTER UNDER SCIENTIST'S PLAN

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 989 words


As Californians gear up for a red-hot initiative battle over illegal
immigration, a Northern California scientist thinks he has the answer to slowing
the flow of immigrants from Mexico to the United States:

"Tag" illegal immigrants with fluorescent dust by sprinkling it along the
border.

The idea is the brainchild of Bill Wattenburg, a maverick engineer and inventor
who argues in today's issue of the prestigious scientific journal Science that
dusting the immigrants will make them easy to spot and apprehend after they
cross the border and fan out into the countryside.

Under Wattenburg's plan, a narrow swath of non-toxic, biodegradable fluorescent
material would be dropped along the border by crop-dusting airplanes. Entrants
and smugglers wouldn't be able to avoid getting the dust over their clothes,
hair and skin, making them easy targets for surveillance aircraft using
ultraviolet or laser technology.

Laser-scanning systems now used by commercial aircraft could monitor about 60
miles of border per hour, making the system cost-effective, said Wattenburg, a
consultant at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and senior research
scientist at the University Foundation at California State University, Chico. He
is known in the scientific world for seemingly bizarre but often effective
inventions such as building temporary bridges out of railroad flatcars.

Officials at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and Californians on
both sides of the fiery immigration issue indicated they found Wattenburg's
latest idea intriguing, but most reacted with skepticism.

Harold Ezell, former western regional commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the answer lies in beefing up the number of people
in the Border Patrol -- not in arming border agents with fancy new technology.
"You don't need a rocket scientist to know where to put your resources," said
Ezell, a sponsor of the "Save Our State" initiative, aimed at denying illegal
immigrants public services. "Making people glow in the dark is not a solution."
Immigrant rights groups scoffed at the proposal, vowing to fight it if the
Border Patrol ever takes it seriously.

Idea called 'absurd'

"We would never allow something like that to happen," said Roberto Martinez,
director of the U.S.-Mexico Border Project of the American Friends Service
Committee. He compared it to other "absurd and outrageous ideas" advanced over
the years, such as "constructing razor-edged fences and building 14-foot ditches
the entire length" of the border.

"It sounds like something you would use on animals," Martinez said of
Wattenburg's proposal. "These are not terrorists. They're human beings."

But Wattenburg, a colorful weekend radio talk-show host on San Francisco's
KGO-AM, defended the idea as a lot more humane than current methods such as
using dogs and helicopters to find and nab people hiding in bushes.

"Now that's an inhumane invasion of privacy," Wattenburg said in an interview
from his home in Chico.

Steve McDonald, a former Border Patrol agent and a spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, said he had never heard of such an idea. Before it
would be used, he said, "we would look at the environmental and psychological
impact of using chemicals that would end up" on people.

Already high-tech

McDonald noted the Border Patrol already uses an array of high-tech gadgets --
everything from infrared cameras to night-vision devices, low-light TV cameras,
motion sensors and heat-detection systems.

"There's no one catch-all method," McDonald said. "There's limitations to every
system."

Although the idea is novel in the immigration arena, "the idea of using
fluorescent tags is certainly not new," Wattenburg said. Fluorescent ink was
applied to the hands of South African voters in the recent election, he said,
and police have long used fluorescent dyes to identify thieves who have handled
stolen money.

The idea first came to him 27 years ago when he was fighting a forest fire,
Wattenburg said. Walking through a forested area that had been dusted by planes
dropping fluorescent-laden fire retardant, he later found that his clothes
sparkled under the ultraviolet lights in a bar where he stopped for a drink.

Wattenburg said the dust can be made cheaply and easily from common materials
such as zinc sulfide, halo-phosphates or crop fertilizers with small additions
of the commercial fluorescent dyes used in cloth to make the colors look
brighter in sunlight. Field testing could begin within weeks, he said.

Velcro 'dust'

The best fluorescent dust wouldn't really be dust at all, he said. It would
consist of microscopic, "Velcro-sticky fluorescent strings that stick to
anything that passes by."

Wattenburg has a doctorate in electrical engineering and nuclear physics from
the University of California, Berkeley, where he taught for nine years. Earlier
this year, he persuaded the California Department of Transportation to build
temporary freeway bridges out of railroad flatcars after the Northridge
earthquake.

After the Gulf War, Wattenburg made headlines when he and Lawrence Livermore
scientists figured out a way to modify plows so they could be turned into a huge
blanket of chains and blades to clear mines left in the Kuwaiti desert.

IMMIGRANT PLAN

Here's how scientist Bill Wattenburg's proposal for slowing the flow of illegal
immigrants would work:

(box)A narrow swath of non-toxic, biodegradable fluorescent material would be
dropped along the border with crop-dusting airplanes.

(box)Illegal immigrants would get the invisible substance on their clothes, hair
and skin.

(box)Ultraviolet or laser-scanning systems in surveillance planes would
illuminate the immigrants.

(box)Border Patrol agents in the air would work with agents on the ground to
take the glowing immigrants into custody.

Source: Bill Wattenburg, Science magazine

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information attached to the end of this article

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 26, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITING CUBA, WILSON ASKS, 'HOW ABOUT US?'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: San Diego


President Clinton is ignoring California's "greater illegal immigration crisis"
while focusing on Cuban boat people trying to reach Florida, an angry Gov. Pete
Wilson charged Thursday.

In an open letter published in the New York Times, Wilson called on Clinton to
immediately start a Border Patrol blockade here similar to one that's had some
success stopping illegal Mexican crossers in El Paso, Texas.

"Operation Hold-the-Line should be tried here," Wilson said. "It's a question of
resources, of whether or not the federal government will make the commitment."

But Border Patrol officials here don't agree.

They point to a recent independent study that found the El Paso blockade stopped
crossings mostly by day laborers - people living in Mexican towns who work in El
Paso - and not by Mexicans planning to cross illegally and then live in the
United States.

Those long-term crossers merely switched to other spots along the border, the
study found.

"We have a different type of crosser here than in El Paso, and a lot more of
them," said Border Patrol spokesman Brian Brazley in San Diego.

"We'll do it, of course, if we're directed to, but we just don't think it will
work," Brazley said. "And violence is a big concern."

Wilson said he believes problems with a border blockade, such as San Diego's
rough terrain and the shortage of agents, can be worked out.

"It might be more difficult, but it's not impossible," he said.

He spoke at a news conference after talking with doctors and hospital
administrators concerned that care for illegal immigrants is hurting their
ability to care for legal California residents.

"The president has continued to turn his back, to turn a blind eye to a problem
at least three times the magnitude of what captured his attention in south
Florida," Wilson said.

The Coast Guard was picking up about 500 people a day in the sea between Cuba
and Florida when Clinton changed the U.S. policy of allowing Cubans in, while an
average of 1,500 illegal immigrants are apprehended each day along the
California-Mexico border, Wilson said.

But the number of Cubans apprehended each day has skyrocketed - on Wednesday
alone, for example, 3,096 were picked up.

The Republican governor did not say whether he believes California gets less
attention because Clinton is a Democrat. Florida's governor is a Democrat.

But pollsters say Wilson has been using the "hot-button" issue of illegal
immigration skillfully throughout his re-election fight against Democratic
nominee Kathleen Brown.

Wilson on Thursday again called on Clinton to reimburse California for the costs
of emergency health care and education for illegal immigrants and their children
and costs of imprisoning illegal immigrants who commit crimes.

He claimed illegal immigrants cost California $3 billion a year. But at least
part of that figure is just an estimate, said Sandy Smoley, the state's
secretary of health and welfare.

Hospitals cannot, by law, ask people who come to emergency rooms whether they
are legally in the country.

So instead, the hospitals estimate.

They look at bills that haven't been paid - a figure that also includes legal
U.S. residents without health insurance - and estimate what percentage came from
illegal immigrants, Smoley said.

The governor at his news conference criticized studies, such as one from the
Urban Institute, that indicate immigrants pay more in taxes than they use in
public services.

Such studies merely estimate the amount of taxes paid by illegal immigrants, the
governor said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Wilson displays a copy of his open letter to the president.
940826 CA 3B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 31, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLICE CHIEF, D.A. HIT PROP. 187 WRONG APPROACH TO ILLEGALS, THEY SAY.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 418 words


Santa Clara County District Attorney George Kennedy and San Jose Police Chief
Lou Cobarruviaz came out swinging Tuesday against Proposition 187, the "Save Our
State" initiative designed to drive illegal immigrants out of California.

Kennedy and Cobarruviaz painted a nightmarish vision of a future with SOS,
saying it would lead to more crime, mountains of paperwork and a police-state
mentality.

"I know we're in need of (immigration) reform, but Proposition 187 is not it,"
Kennedy said at a news conference at the county government center in San Jose.
"We need tools that help us, not hurt us."

The initiative, favored by a 2-1 ratio in early polls, would make illegal
immigrants ineligible for social services, public schools and most health care
except for emergencies. Law enforcement agencies, school districts and publicly
funded hospitals and clinics would be required to report suspected illegal
immigrants to the attorney general and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Cobarruviaz lambasted the initiative's authors for their "serious disregard for
public safety." He predicted their measure would unleash 400,000 juveniles from
schools onto California's streets -- a gang recruiter's dream.

Kennedy and Cobarruviaz join other California law enforcement officials and
groups that have come out against the proposition. They include Los Angeles
County Sheriff Sherman Block and the Peace Officers Research Association of
California, the state's largest rank-and-file police group.

SOS proponents pooh-poohed their concerns.

"This is just a cheap trick," said Rick Oltman, chairman of the "Yes on 187"
committee. "They're manipulating children for their own purposes. These law
enforcement officials should be ashamed of themselves for thinking that anyone
not in school is a criminal."

Under the initiative, he said, children who are in the country illegally "won't
just be kicked out on the streets. They'll be given 90 days to get squared
away."

However, opponents argue that there are no provisions for deportation in
Proposition 187, so it's not certain what would happen to children taken out of
schools.

Joining Kennedy and Cobarruviaz in pouncing on the initiative, which they say
was sloppily drafted, was a coterie of Proposition 187 opponents, including
representatives of medical, business, education and labor groups. Many
complained that SOS would turn them into immigration cops.

"It will sink our state," said Dr. Larry Bedard of Marin County.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: 'We need tools that help us, not hurt us. '
--D.A. George Kennedy
940831 LO 1B 4
PHOTO: Chief Lou Cobarruviaz cited a "disregard for public safety."
940831 LO 1B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 31, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WESTERN REGION OF INS TO GET A NEW DIRECTOR

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Gustavo De La Vina, a 24-year veteran of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service who now oversees the border near San Diego, has been promoted to direct
the agency's western region.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner announced the appointment Tuesday, putting De La
Vina, 55, in charge of one of the largest and busiest INS sectors.

As chief Border Patrol agent in the San Diego region the past four years, De La
Vina led the campaign against illegal border crossings.

Under his tenure, the INS installed high-powered stadium lights along the border
and erected a thick steel fence to keep out illegal immigrants.

His replacement will not be named for several weeks, said Joe Flanders, a
spokesman for the western regional INS office in Laguna Niguel.

The post De La Vina assumes had been vacant for about a year, with various
people acting as interim director.

In his new job, De La Vina will be in charge of California, Nevada, Arizona,
Oregon, Washington, Hawaii, Guam, Alaska and two Border Patrol sectors that span
Idaho and Montana.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 9, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHANGE IMPROPER LAWS - DON'T IGNORE THEM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 260 words


The editorials and letters on the subject of illegal immigrants indicate the
complexity of this multifaceted issue. To formulate a rational policy on this
issue, we must clearly understand the different factors involved, and balance
the pros and cons of actions proposed by various interest groups.

We are a nation that believes in the rule of law, so accepting illegal
immigrants would go counter to our basic beliefs. Moreover, it would be unfair
to the thousands who lawfully wait their turn, sometimes for up to 10 years, to
enter the United States.

If we can justify that certain groups of immigrants are more beneficial for our
economy, then we can change the laws to give them preference. If we determine
that certain groups of immigrants are harmful to our economy or to our quality
of life, then we can amend the laws to curtail their entry. But we cannot have
laws and then allow them to be disregarded.

Illegal immigrants are a reality, mainly because there is a huge demand for
their cheap services - on our farms, in our restaurants and in our small
factories. Because of their illegal status, many of them are grossly exploited,
but they accept it in order to give their children a chance to have a better
future.

Unless we crack down on the employers with stiff effective penalties, employ
sufficient personnel to apprehend illegals and smugglers, and stop releasing
illegals before their court trial, we will not stop the flow, but merely
increase their suffering by withholding social services.

- Maneck Bhujwala

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: DAVID S. ROSE
U.S. flag-covered door showing doorknob
940909 ED 6B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 13, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'SOS' INITIATIVE IS NOT A SURE BET

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1403 words


If you believe the polls, Proposition 187 -- the "Save Our State" initiative --
is one of the most popular ballot measures in California history.

But if you believe California history is a guide to the future, the measure that
targets illegal immigrants most likely will be shot down at the polls Nov. 8.

In a move that has set up a messy, rancorous battle over an emotional issue, a
powerful anti-187 coalition of labor, health and education groups has hired the
state's premier initiative-trashing firm. Since it was formed in 1971, Woodward
& McDowell of Burlingame has never lost a "vote no" campaign. In the past six
years, it has squashed seven statewide measures, including the "Big Green"
environmental initiative in 1990.

SOS, which would deny illegal immigrants education, non-emergency health
services and other public benefits, is favored by a ratio of more than 2-to-1 in
early public opinion polls.

"But the general course for citizen-sponsored initiatives is to start out ahead
and then lose support, especially if there is an organized 'no' campaign," said
Mark DiCamillo, director of the Field Poll. "There have been many cases where
propositions start out well ahead and then go down big."

SOS proponents, though, are confident that California voters will "send a
message" on illegal immigration as they did on high property taxes in 1978 and
legislative term limits in 1990 -- despite the millions of dollars spent to
defeat the measures. Opponents are hoping that voters will scrutinize
Proposition 187 and decide it will make a bad situation worse.

Some proponents are depicting themselves as populist Davids battling evil
Goliaths.

Relating to Jarvis

"I can sort of relate to what Howard Jarvis must have been going through with
Proposition 13," said Harold Ezell, one of the authors of SOS. "His enemies were
out to slay him, and all he had was a slingshot and three rocks."

The California arm of Ross Perot's United We Stand America is endorsing
Proposition 187, claiming that 95 percent of its members back it. But most
establishment organizations and the editorial boards of the state's major
newspapers -- the kinds of groups the crotchety Jarvis used to sneer at -- have
lambasted the measure.

"But Jarvis won -- and I believe we will, too," said Ezell, former Western
regional commissioner for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. "I
don't think you can con the taxpayer."

Opponents, however, have launched an apparently well-funded campaign that will
attack the initiative as sloppily drafted, misguided, mean-spirited,
irresponsible and destined to be bogged down in the courts for years if it
passes.

Jack McDowell, the 80-year-old co-founder of Woodward & McDowell, said Taxpayers
Against 187 will try to stop the "passion impulse," the attitude that "this
illegal alien thing is getting out of hand and that something should be done" --
even if that something is stupid.

McDowell said the campaign will try to get voters to focus on the initiative,
not the issue, and simply ask themselves: "Is this thing a good law for
California or is this a bad law for California?"

When polled by the Field organization in July, 64 percent said they liked the
initiative after it was explained to them, and only 27 percent were opposed.
Nine percent were undecided.

'People like the concept'

"What that says is people like the concept -- that we need to do something about
illegal immigration," DiCamillo said.

Since the poll was taken, the opposition has raised the specter of a post- SOS
California with roving gangs of juveniles, no longer allowed in schools,
spraying graffiti and bullets. Proposition 187 critics say billions of dollars
of additional taxes would be needed to replace federal funds yanked because the
initiative conflicts with U.S. laws and court decisions.

A hint of the campaign ahead came last week when Taxpayers Against 187 mailed
out Internal Revenue Service and financial disclosure documents to reporters
around the state that tried to link Alan Nelson, one of Proposition 187's
authors, with a "secretive, white supremacist" foundation.

The documents noted that the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR),
for which Nelson until recently worked as Sacramento lobbyist, has received
about 5 percent of its annual budget from the controversial Pioneer Fund in
recent years.

The New York-based fund was founded in 1937 by a supporter of a eugenics
movement that advocated improving the human race through selective breeding. It
has also backed research efforts seeking to prove the genetic inferiority of
non-white races, SOS opponents said, suggesting that the fund's "connection" to
Nelson was part of a dark, hidden agenda.

At a Los Angeles news conference organized by Taxpayers Against 187, speakers
urged Californians to "send a message" to the Pioneer Fund by voting no on the
proposition.

"This initiative requires Americans to report to the authorities people they
suspect of being illegal aliens," said Max Turchen, chairman of the Los Angeles
chapter of the Congress of California Seniors. "But what are the criteria? The
color of your skin? The way you talk? Your last name?"

Nelson and Ezell described the allegations regarding the Pioneer Fund as an
indication of their opponents' desperation. Both said they knew nothing about
the fund, although they were aware of previous controversy over the foundation's
grants to FAIR.

"If you can't kill the message, then you kill the messenger," Ezell said.

"They better be concerned about libel laws," said Nelson, a former INS
commissioner who predicted that the allegations would "boomerang."

Ezell said he didn't expect SOS backers to spend much on television or newspaper
advertising. "Whatever money comes is going to come in the same way it came in
to put it on the ballot," he said. "It'll come from Mr. and Mrs. California,
ordinary people who are fed up with illegal immigration."

Deep-pocket groups

Opponents say they don't know how much they will spend -- and the first campaign
financing reports aren't due until early October. But the deep-pocket groups
that have joined forces with immigrant-rights organizations include the
California Medical Association and a slew of powerful labor groups such as the
California Teachers Association and the California State Employees Association.
As a rule, big money sounds a death knell for initiatives, even ones initially
deemed to be popular.

The California classic was the "bottle bill" initiative in 1982, when the
beverage and container industries spent millions to trounce an initiative that
began well ahead in the polls.

"What the opposition does is to identify plausible issues, whether or not they
are truthful," said Bill Shireman, a Sacramento consultant who at the time was
executive director of Californians Against Waste, the environmental group that
championed the nickel-deposit measure.

In the case of the proposed bottle law, Shireman said, the "no" campaign was
able to convince many Californians that their supermarkets would be invaded by
cockroaches when they returned their containers -- even though health officials
in states with identical laws said there were no such sanitation problems.

"The deceptive argument worked simply because it was believable," said Shireman,
who in 1990 was a consultant to the proponents of "Big Green" and "Forests
Forever." Both were defeated by Woodward & McDowell, which was able to tarnish
"Big Green" by linking it to liberal politician Tom Hayden.

Strategy explained

Dick Woodward, the managing partner of Woodward & McDowell, explained the
strategy of beating initiatives this way:

"You don't have to defeat something 100 percent. What you do is try to find the
salt in the underbelly. You look for things like unintended consequences of the
initiative's drafting. You have to find something that's meaningful to voters
and pound away."

Political consultants, pollsters and analysts say that voters tend to vote no on
propositions when bombarded with a series of conflicting and confusing messages.

"The burden of proof is on the 'yes' side," DiCamillo said. "All other things
being equal, people will vote for the status quo."

Still, DiCamillo said he holds out the possibility that "Proposition 187 will
take on some symbolic significance and voters will decide to approve it even if
they see flaws."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 14, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN THE SPOTLIGHT

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE AND SCOTT THURM,Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 995 words


With caustic new TV ads and some of the toughest rhetoric to date, Gov. Pete
Wilson and Democratic Treasurer Kathleen Brown sharpened their differences
Tuesday on one of the most emotionally powerful issues in the campaign for
governor -- illegal immigration.

His message in a nutshell: Immigrants come to California for benefits. Crack
down on illegal entrants, throw their children out of school, deny them health
care and sue the federal government for more money.

Her message: Immigrants come here for jobs. Beef up the border patrol, penalize
employers and sue the federal government. Don't resort to "cheap political
tricks" that blame kids.

Wilson has begun running two TV ads: one blaming "300,000 illegal immigrant
children" for swamping public schools; the other urging people to call the White
House to demand that President Clinton do more to stem the tide of illegal
aliens as he has done for Florida and Texas.

Brown, in her most forceful speech on the issue to date, on Tuesday outlined new
ways to increase the number of border guards. She called for increasing employer
sanctions that Wilson has resisted. And she accused Wilson of fanning people's
fears and encouraging a "wrong-headed" anti-immigration ballot measure.

In essence, the candidates staked out opposing sides on Proposition 187, the
so-called Save Our State initiative, that requires teachers, health workers and
other authorities to report suspected illegal immigrants rather than provide
them services. Brown flatly opposes the measure; Wilson said Monday he would
vote for it but has yet to formally endorse it.

Wilson Tuesday unveiled an unconventional 10-second spot urging Californians to
call the White House this week to appeal for additional federal help to control
the border. Clinton is due in Los Angeles on Sunday at a fund-raiser for Brown.

As newspaper headlines appear on the screen, an announcer says Clinton has
helped other states "but he ignores California." It concludes with an on- screen
appeal to "Call President Clinton, (202)-456-1414, before the September 18th
California visit."

Exploiting Clinton's decline

For Wilson, the ad has several tactical purposes. It keeps the campaign focused
on illegal immigration, one of his strongest issues. It portrays him as a
political opponent of the increasingly unpopular Clinton. And the ad will allow
Wilson to claim credit for any changes in border policy announced by Clinton on
Sunday or by Attorney General Janet Reno, who will be in Los Angeles and San
Diego on Saturday.

Last weekend, Wilson began airing an ad claiming that illegal immigrant children
are essentially stealing $1.5 billion in state school spending that should be
spent on "California's kids."

The 30-second ad repeats one of the most incendiary lines of Wilson's campaign
-- "They keep coming," which first appeared in a Wilson TV spot in May. Now,
it's 300,000 illegal-alien school-children who keep coming -- "and it's unfair
to the people who are working hard, paying taxes, educating their children."

The ad also misrepresents Brown's position on illegal immigration by taking out
of context a statement she made last September. The ad quotes Brown as saying
illegal immigration "is wrongly seen as a cause" of problems in California.

The words were Brown's but she was saying that illegal entrants should not be
blamed for unemployment, declining public schools and fears about health care.
In the rest of that speech, and in her speech Tuesday, she said clearly that
illegal immigration does cause social and fiscal problems.

Brown defines position

Speaking to the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco on Tuesday, Brown responded
to Wilson's misappropriation of her September 1993 speech.

"Let me be clear," she said. "Illegal immigration is a problem -- a serious
problem -- and it must be addressed. Our policies must be tough. Our borders
must be controlled. And our laws must be enforced.

"But let me make one other thing clear: Our policies and our programs must not
be simply politically expedient and inflammatory."

Brown called for a pilot program to close two inland checkpoints in Southern
California and redeploy their 200 agents to the Mexican border.

About 56,000 illegal immigrants have been apprehended in the last 12 months at
the two checkpoints Brown proposed closing -- on Interstate 5 near San Clemente
and I-15 near Temecula. That's about 10 percent of the number of illegal
entrants caught in California each year.

But officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service already were
considering closing those two stations to beef up patrols at the border, in
hopes of capturing even more illegal immigrants, according to INS spokesman Ron
Rogers.

Sending felons back

Brown said Californians who believe in playing by the rules justifiably see
illegal immigration as a threat. "That is a fair and legitimate concern," she
said. But solutions should include stiffening sanctions against employers who
hire illegal workers, sending alien felons back to their home countries to serve
time in prison and recovering federal funds to pay for services mandated by
federal laws.

"I do not support visiting the problem of illegal immigration on children," she
said. The measure "represents a deliberate attempt to tap into our fears and our
anxieties and our justifiable demand for reducing the problem of illegal
immigration."

Moreover, she said, it "is a cheap political trick that Pete Wilson is promoting
and encouraging."

She argued that Proposition 187 would cost California $15 billion in lost
federal funds. Worse, she said, if the state throws children out of schools, "I
see more gangs, I see more guns, I see more graffiti."

She also questioned how teachers and doctors would identify illegal entrants.
"Is it by the color of one's skin? Is it by the accent or last name? Maybe the
way you dress. Maybe the cut of the cloth that you are wearing," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Brown spoke Tuesday at San Francisco's Commonwealth Club.
940914 FR 9A 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 15, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S.: ILLEGAL-ENTRANT BURDEN IS LARGE, BUT WILSON INFLATES IT

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: Washington


The Clinton administration charged Wednesday that Gov. Pete Wilson has greatly
exaggerated illegal immigrants' drain on state taxpayers, further stoking an
incendiary immigration debate that now dominates the state governor's race.

While an independent report Wednesday acknowledged that states have borne
billions of dollars in costs of illegal immigration, the White House issued this
retort to Wilson's campaign appeal for compensation:

Don't hold your breath.

"We do not have a stack of blank checks in Washington to mail to governors for
purposes of fiscal relief," Chris Edley Jr., associate director of the Office of
Management and Budget, told reporters. "Times are tight here as they are in many
statehouses, and we're forced to make difficult choices."

The latest rhetoric came as the Republican governor and the Democratic
gubernatorial candidate, Kathleen Brown, were amplifying their differences over
how best to stem the flow of illegal immigration -- and just days before
President Clinton was to visit California for a Brown fund-raiser Sunday.

At issue Wednesday was an Urban Institute analysis of how seven states,
including California, are affected by America's porous borders. The report
stated California is home to up to 1.6 million illegal immigrants, 43 percent of
all illegal immigrants in the United States.

The costs

The study estimated that the seven states most affected by illegal immigration
had 21,395 such immigrants in their prisons in March 1994, at an annual cost of
$471 million. Those states also spent at least $209 million on emergency medical
care in 1993, including labor and delivery in hospital maternity wards,
according to the report.

The federal government commissioned the study from the Urban Institute, a
Washington think tank that has supported immigration, after Wilson and governors
of Arizona, Florida, New Jersey, New York, Illinois and Texas asked for an
independent analysis of the costs of illegal immigration.

But as reaction Wednesday indicated, this study is not likely to end the debate.

Clinton budget advisers and Wilson aides -- as if reviewing the report from
opposing ends of a telescope -- reached starkly different conclusions.

The president's staff, while acknowledging that immigration costs are large and
serious, used the report to portray Wilson as a statistical manipulator more
concerned about his re-election than reimbursements for costs he never mentioned
when Republicans ran the White House.

The governor's economic advisers, citing arcane and complex changes in the way
the statistics were compiled, contended the report validates Wilson's position.
Wilson has waged a two-year campaign for money he said the federal government
owes state taxpayers for educating, imprisoning and medically treating illegal
immigrants.

"The bottom line to this whole question is that there is a substantial cost that
everyone now agrees to," said Russell Gould, director of Wilson's budget office.
"The point now is for Washington to step forward and provide reimbursement."

U.S. was sued in April

As he prepared the first in a series of federal lawsuits this year, Wilson said
it costs $400 million to incarcerate, $400 million to medically treat and $1.7
billion to educate illegal immigrants in California. California sued the federal
government in April, days after Florida filed a similar suit.

While roughly agreeing with the state's estimate for imprisonment costs, the
Urban Institute study found the state's estimate for educating illegal
immigrants to be overstated by 40 percent. And the state's estimate for medical
treatment of those in the state illegally was more than double the study's
figure.

"They substantially exaggerated their costs despite several conversations,
including with the Census Bureau at which they were provided with evidence that
should have been the basis for correction," said Edley of the OMB.

Tom Epstein, special assistant to the president for political affairs, said that
if the Urban Institute study is on the mark, Wilson's $3 billion claim against
the federal government had dropped to $1.7 billion.

"We have been very clear that that money wasn't going to magically appear,"
Epstein told reporters.

At a separate briefing later, Wilson's budget advisers said they accepted much
of what the new study reported. But, employing different arithmetic that
includes the state's estimate of taxes paid by the illegal immigrants, they came
up with a new bottom line: $2.7 billion.

Wilson wants Congress to approve that money before it begins its autumn break in
mid-October, a virtual impossibility.

"We've had enough studies going on around here," said Wilson's chief
spokeswoman, Leslie Goodman. "California can't wait any longer. We need action
and we need reimbursement and we need it now."

TV appeal

Wednesday, Wilson began broadcasting 10-second television ads that implore
Californians to call Clinton -- before his trip west this weekend -- to demand
action against illegal immigration.

"Clinton helped Florida and Texas stop immigration, but he ignores California,"
the announcer states, referring to Texas border patrols and efforts to curb the
Cuban exodus. "Governor Wilson urges you to call the president before he's here
and ask him to control our borders."

The resonance of the immigration issue is unmistakable. A Los Angeles Times Poll
on Wednesday indicated that a November ballot measure to deny most government
services to illegal immigrants is favored by Californians, 62 percent to 28
percent.

Wilson, stopping short of formally endorsing Proposition 187, has said he would
vote for it. Brown has sharply denounced the initiative, calling it "politically
expedient."

Brown's campaign called Wilson's entreaties to Washington for immigration-
related reimbursements acts of political hypocrisy, noting that when he was a
U.S. senator Wilson worked to open U.S. borders to agricultural workers.

"This study documents the taxpayers' bill for Wilson's support for the
agricultural worker program that allowed millions of illegal aliens to come in
to California," said Steven Glazer, a Brown press aide. "Wilson's political
hypocrisy has cost taxpayers billions of dollars, and voters can see through his
election-year finger pointing."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 16, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

80 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS REPATRIATED TO CHINA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 54 words


Eighty illegal Chinese immigrants were flown from Bakersfield on Thursday for
repatriation in China, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said. The
Chinese had been smuggled into the United States. INS spokeswoman Virginia Kice
said some of the Chinese on board Thursday's chartered flight returned
voluntarily.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

EMERGENCY DECLARATION ATTACKED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: San Diego


The county Board of Supervisors has voted to declare a state of emergency in an
effort to force the federal government to bear more of the costs associated with
illegal immigration from Mexico.

The supervisors Tuesday ripped the Clinton administration for devoting more
attention to the Cuban refugee influx in Florida than to illegal Mexican
immigration in California.

A U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman who was visiting San Diego Tuesday
defended the Clinton administration, saying it has accomplished more than its
predecessors in the way of controlling illegal immigration from Mexico.

"We have been addressing illegal immigration and the border as an emergency for
the last 18 months," said spokeswoman, Julie Anbender.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related story page 3B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL KEEPS INLAND CHECKPOINTS

BYLINE: SALLY STREFF BUZBEE, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Despite weekend pledges from top Justice Department officials to transfer agents
away from two controversial Southern California freeway checkpoints, the Border
Patrol has no immediate plans to do so, officials said.

Instead, the Border Patrol will study the effectiveness of the checkpoints over
the next months. Only then will area federal officials meet with bosses in
Washington to discuss what should be done.

Motorists halted daily at the checkpoints probably will notice no difference for
now, officials said Tuesday.

The confused set of signals sent out on the issue since Saturday apparently
resulted from the growing gap between political wrangling over illegal
immigration, and the Border Patrol's own opinions and day-to-day operations in
the tricky political climate.

Attorney General Janet Reno came to Southern California this weekend, apparently
in response to a stepped-up campaign by Republican California Gov. Pete Wilson
to criticize the Clinton administration for its position on illegal immigration.

Wilson last week broadcast TV ads urging people to call the president to
complain that he was ignoring California's illegal immigration problem.

After Reno's appearances in Los Angeles and San Diego, Wilson criticized her
outlined plans as merely a rehash of earlier announcements.

Border Patrol officials and some other politicians, on the other hand, have been
generally supportive of Reno's plans, calling them measured responses.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related story page 3B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 22, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR REQUESTS IMMIGRANT 'CRISIS' AID ATTORNEY GENERAL SAYS ADMINISTRATION
ALREADY HAS ACTED

BYLINE: SALLY STREFF BUZBEE, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: San Diego


For weeks now, the fight over illegal immigration has been taking center stage
in California's governor's race.

On Wednesday that issue heated up further when Republican incumbent Gov. Pete
Wilson asked President Clinton to declare an immigration emergency in the state.

"You have acknowledged the illegal immigration crisis in other states," the
governor wrote in a clear reference to Clinton's recent aid, including troops,
designed to stop Cuban boat people from flooding into Florida. "I implore you to
take immediate action to assist the people of California."

U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno immediately answered, writing: "Upon taking
office over a year and a half ago, this administration immediately responded to
California's immigration crisis.

Fences, lighting, agents

"We launched a serious multiyear plan to strengthen border enforcement. We have
installed fencing and lighting . . . and by the end of next year, will have
increased by 60 percent the number of Border Patrol agents on the line at the
California border."

Wilson's request was mostly symbolic, aides acknowledged privately. A fund for
such emergencies, for example, contains just a fraction of the money Wilson
contends California is owed by the federal government.

But the move highlighted the extreme political importance illegal immigration
has taken on -- in the past year and especially the past few weeks.

Political visits

Many officials have made the trek to the border at San Diego. Last weekend,
Republican Senate candidate Michael Huffington and Reno came.

Wilson is running television ads showing migrants fleeing from Border Patrol
agents.

And polls indicate he is having an effect. A recent Los Angeles Times poll
indicated voters think Wilson is more qualified to handle immigration problems
than is his challenger, Democratic state Treasurer Kathleen Brown.

Brown accuses Wilson of playing on Californians' racial and economic fears. She
contends her policies to combat illegal immigration are also tough -- "but
smart," said John Whitehurst, a spokesman for her campaign.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 23, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY UPS ESTIMATE OF IMMIGRATION COSTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 136 words


Legal and illegal immigration is more costly for large states than recently
estimated by the Clinton administration, according to a new study. A report by
the respected Center for Immigration Studies said Thursday that immigrants in
1992 produced a net national deficit of $29.1 billion, borne mainly by
California and six other states. The center compared the cost of social services
and education against taxes and fees paid by immigrants to come up with the
deficit.

This estimate contrasts with a finding by the Urban Institute, in an
administration-commissioned study, that immigrants had brought the United States
a net benefit of $28.7 billion. However, the institute acknowledged that it
costs California $1.28 billion annually to pay for the education of illegal
immigrant children.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 23, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 WILL CAUSE, NOT SOLVE, PROBLEMS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 16B

LENGTH: 282 words


I am writing about Proposition 187, a state initiative that would refuse illegal
immigrants public schooling, non-emergency health care, and social services. It
would require schools and hospitals to turn in any illegal immigrants using
these services.

I don't think that this will help the illegal immigration problem. Illegal
immigrants will still come to California because living in California with Prop.
187 is still better than living in their country. They come to California to get
jobs to support their families. If they come here and Prop. 187 is in effect, it
could cause greater problems than it would remedy. Immigrants still could get
jobs, but they wouldn't have any education and their health would be poor. When
their health becomes poor they will be more susceptible to disease. If they come
into California with a contagious disease or contract one while living in the
state and don't get treatment, the disease might spread.

If immigrants kept their children out of school for fear of being deported, the
children would grow up aimless and might look to less socially acceptable ways
of passing time. If illegal children continue to live in California but never
have the chance to learn to read and write, they will eventually cause social
problems that could affect other Californians.

The only way to slow illegal immigration is to have a forgery-proof national
identity card that employers would have to see before hiring someone. If a
person did not have a card and an employer hired him anyway and that fact was
discovered, the employer would go to jail or have to pay such a large fine he'd
never hire an illegal alien.

-- Brian D. Peterson

Saratoga

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MARGARET SCOTT
940923 ED 16B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 25, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

IMMIGRATION VIEWS MISREPRESENTED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6P

LENGTH: 851 words


Shame on The Mercury News for flagrantly and dishonestly distorting beyond
recognition my views on illegal immigration. It is flatly untrue, as your
article charged, that I have shifted positions on illegal immigration. Since
serving as mayor of San Diego where, even in the 1970s, our city had begun to
experience the serious problems caused by illegal immigration, I've spoken out
repeatedly and consistently on the need for reform. In fact, I have raised the
issue with every president since Jimmy Carter. And since I first raised the
issue in the 1970s, the failed federal policy of illegal immigration has only
grown worse -- so much so, that it is now costing California taxpayers more than
$1 billion a year.

The Mercury reveals a fundamental bias and misunderstanding of the critical
issue of illegal immigration in its cavalier and intellectually dishonest claim
that the differences between legal and illegal immigration are "not always
worthwhile distinctions." The difference is real, obvious -- and it is
important. Indeed, I have always been careful to draw a distinction between the
two because it is critical to any rational and honest discussion of the issue.

The Mercury News' story and editorial on the subject both began by falsely
characterizing my position in the 1980s as supporting the employment of illegal
immigrants. You did so based on the shakiest of possible sources -- a single,
alleged quote, attributed to me second-hand from a Spanish language newspaper
published in Mexico. Let there be no doubt: I have never endorsed the employment
of illegal aliens in violation of the law, nor sought to justify the practice
based on taxes paid by aliens.

The law has changed several times, but my views have not. In the early '80s, it
was actually legal for employers to hire workers who were in the country
illegally. At the time, I expressed concern that the illegal status of these
workers led to their being exploited by some unscrupulous employers, a view I
still hold.

My measure would not have allowed these guest workers to earn permanent legal
residency or be eligible for taxpayer-financed benefits. To the contrary, it
required the guest worker to return home before collecting a significant portion
of his wages -- to ensure that these temporary guest workers returned to their
country of origin when the harvest was complete and their work here was done.
But my proposal never became law. Instead, a group of liberal Democrats in the
House of Representatives, including now-White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta,
replaced my measure with one that did allow permanent legal residency and
citizenship for aliens working in farm jobs.

Finally, the Mercury's news story claims that in 1986 I voted for one of the
federal mandates for providing services to illegals that I now oppose. Again the
Mercury News seems eager to miss the point: That measure improved the situation
that then existed by forcing the federal government to pick up half the cost of
providing health care to illegal immigrants, when at the time the full cost was
borne entirely by local hospitals and local taxpayers.

In short, the Mercury News story is full of distortions and inaccuracies patched
together to foist upon the public the fiction that I "was on other side in the
'80s" during the debate on illegal immigration. It is a piece unworthy of the
Mercury's responsibility to its readers, and one that cannot stand up to any
honest examination of the record.

Has my concern about the magnitude of the problem grown in recent years? Of
course -- because the problem has grown so alarmingly. The cost of providing
services to illegal immigrants is exploding. Since 1988, the cost of keeping
alien felons in our prisons has more than tripled; the cost of health care for
illegal immigrants has increased 18-fold; and the cost of providing education
has increased by $500 million to over $1.5 billion per year!

The growing influx of illegals and these sky-rocketing costs have dramatically
increased the burdens on state and local government that I described back in
1986, so much so that we are now being forced to reduce services for needy legal
residents of California as a result. That is terribly wrong, terribly unfair to
California's taxpayers, California's school children, California's working poor
mothers, and to California's needy elderly, blind, and disabled. It's got to
change.

That's why I'll continue to work for reform of our failed federal immigration
policies and why I urge the Mercury News to join the debate as a factual source
and as a responsible voice for reform. Its efforts to date have sadly and
seriously missed on both counts. By continuing to misrepresent my views and
efforts to bring urgently needed reform to the real and dangerously growing
problems of illegal immigration, the Mercury News is guilty of the most serious
kind of disservice not only to its readers but to all Californians whose job
opportunities, income, education and health care continue to be undermined by
illegal immigration.

-- Pete Wilson

Governor

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the editor

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 1994

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 9/27/94, pg. 6B)
Because of an editing error, an incorrect figure for the cost of illegal
immigration was printed in Gov. Pete Wilson's letter on Sunday. The sentence
should have read: "And since I first raised the issue in the 1970s, the failed
federal policy of illegal immigration has only grown worse -- so much so, that
it is now costing California taxpayers more than $3 billion a year."

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: KEVIN KRENECK
940925 ED 6P

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 25, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE GOVERNOR'S SCAPEGOATS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6P

LENGTH: 142 words


AS MAYOR of San Diego, Pete Wilson welcomed Mexican workers. Today, running for
for re-election, he blames the federal government for an "invasion" of
undocumented immigrants.

In a letter on this page, the governor argues that there's no inconsistency.
Granting his point that some of the earlier immigrants were guest workers, we
say Wilson has changed his tune.

Is it just coincidence that he did not makescapegoats of immigrants when
Republicans owned the White House?

The governor filed his third lawsuit against the feds last week, seeking
reimbursement for state services to undocumented people since 1988. We agree
that Washington should bear some of the costs. But in our opinion that is no
excuse for Wilson's exploitation of undocumented maids, janitors and fruit
pickers as he runs for re-election on the politics of resentment.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FURTHERMORE

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 27, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 SUPPORT SLIPS FIELD POLL: A MAJORITY STILL BACK THE MEASURE, AIMED AT
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, BUT THE PERCENTAGE HAS DROPPED SINCE JULY.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 613 words


The "Save Our State" initiative targeting illegal immigrants still is favored by
a ratio of roughly 2-to-1, but support has slipped slightly from two months ago,
a new Field Poll says.

When read a summary of Proposition 187 and its expected fiscal impact, 57
percent of those polled favored it, 31 percent opposed it, and 12 percent were
undecided.

In July, when the last Field Poll on the measure was taken, 64 percent backed it
and 27 percent were against it with 9 percent undecided.

The measure would bar illegal immigrants from public schools, public social
services and health care, except emergencies. The non-partisan state legislative
analyst says it would save local and state governments roughly $200 million but
that would be offset by tens of millions of dollars in administrative costs and
the possible loss of billions because provisions conflict with federal law.

"The public is still stacking pretty impressively on the yes side," said Mark
DiCamillo, the Field Poll's director. But considering that neither side has
spent much on advertising thus far, the results could be considered "pre-
campaign" and could change significantly in the weeks before the Nov. 8
election, DiCamillo said.

Seventy-one percent of voters have now heard of the initiative, up from 37
percent in July, according to a random poll of 574 registered voters taken over
six days beginning Sept. 13.

Support was strongest among Southern Californians (62 percent), Republicans (67
percent) and people who intend to vote to re-elect Gov. Pete Wilson (73
percent). Support was weakest among liberals (37 percent) and people who intend
to vote for Democrat Kathleen Brown for governor (39 percent).

The survey found that non-Hispanic white voters favored the measure by 60
percent to 27 percent. Forty-four percent of Hispanics favored it; 48 percent
were against it. Other minorities favored the initiative by a cumulative 53
percent to 37 percent.

SOS opponents saw hope in the numbers because the "yes" voters had dipped 7
percentage points from July to September.

"It's turning around -- and the drop occurred with absolutely no electronic
advertising," said Scott Macdonald, spokesman for Taxpayers Against 187, a
Burlingame-based coalition of labor, education and health groups that contends
SOS will foster a police state mentality because it requires various agencies to
report suspected illegal immigrants.

"Our own polls show that when you tell the voters arguments from both sides, it
drops below 50 percent," Macdonald said. "That's a fair indication that you can
win."

But proponents, who argue that most Californians are fed up with illegal
immigration, said they weren't worried.

"I think we're in good shape for November," said Ron Prince, chairman of the SOS
Committee, based in Orange County. "All you need is 50 percent plus one, and
other polls are showing higher numbers -- well over 60 percent and holding."

Macdonald indicated a television and radio campaign against the measure will
begin in early October, although the extent of the campaign depends on how much
money is raised to fight the measure. Opponents include such powerful
organizations as the California Medical Association and the California Teachers
Association as well as a growing number of business groups, including the San
Jose Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce.

Prince said SOS backers -- which include the California Republican Party -- were
getting more and more support from volunteers from Ross Perot's United We Stand
America. The "yes" campaign will have enough money for radio advertising but
probably not enough for television advertising, Prince said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chart not taken in database

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: Mercury News
Taking the pulse on Prop. 187
Source: Field Poll940927 CA 3B 2; h. bar chart

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 2, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 CAUSES HISPANIC DIVISION INITIATIVE WOULD CURB ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT AID

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1449 words


Michael Almaguer, a retired postal manager who lives in a modest home in a
Latino neighborhood in East Los Angeles, says that he sometimes feels "like a
traitor."

Not to his country -- but to his Mexican heritage. He intends to vote for
Proposition 187, the initiative on November's ballot that would deny illegal
immigrants a free education and most other public benefits.

If he were the United States' immigration czar, the third-generation
Mexican-American said, "We'd build a big door on the Mexican border and ship out
everyone who doesn't belong here. Then I'd put the Army and the National Guard
down there to make sure that no one else came in."

Almaguer, 71, concedes this his views on illegal immigration are extreme. But
his support of the "Save Our State" initiative illustrates a not-often-
talked-about split within California's Hispanic communities.

To the dismay of Latino activists who look at Proposition 187 as a dangerous,
racially motivated assault on human rights, polls say Hispanics are evenly
divided on the measure.

A Los Angeles Times survey of registered Hispanic voters showed the measure was
favored by 52 percent to 42 percent. And a Field Poll of registered voters last
week showed 44 percent of Hispanics backing the initiative, 48 percent against
it.

"It's human nature," said SOS opponent Mike Garcia, president of Service
Employees International Union Local 1877 in San Jose. "Everyone wants to feel a
little bit better than the person beneath them. In general, working-class people
are more prone to be duped into thinking that if you find a scapegoat then all
of our problems will go away."

To political scientists and pollsters who have been gauging Mexican- American
attitudes toward immigration, the polls are no surprise.

"You have a pattern going here," said Rodolfo de la Garza, the principal
investigator of the Latino National Political Survey, the most extensive polling
of Hispanic political attitudes to date.

The survey, released in late 1992, showed that 75.2 percent of Mexican-
Americans agreed with the statement that "there are too many immigrants,"
compared to 73.8 percent of non-Hispanic whites. Most surprisingly, when the
same question was asked of Mexican immigrants who were not U.S. citizens, 83.6
percent agreed.

Many of the Hispanics who favor Proposition 187 are farmworkers, janitors and
casual laborers who see the new immigrants as competitors in a dog-eat-dog race
for jobs and housing. But many Hispanics who vehemently oppose SOS see the new
Latino immigrants, both legal and illegal, as compatriots in search of a better
life.

"For some Latinos, it's not that they don't like Mexicans coming into the state,
it's that they don't like them coming in illegally," said de la Garza. "It's a
subtle issue. As a whole, Mexican-Americans are extraordinarily law-abiding.
Many feel that they get the blame for the people who come here illegally."

Soul-searching looms

For other Mexican-Americans, particularly those whose families have lived in
California for generations, the decision on whether to vote for SOS will require
an introspective look into their Latino souls, perhaps answering the question of
whether they are more American than Mexican or more Mexican than American.

For Almaguer, a U.S. Army veteran of World War II, the choice will be easy. "I
don't believe it's right to consider the Latino community as one," he said. "I'm
American. By considering Mexican-Americans and all Latinos as one you're giving
legitimacy to the illegal alien."

Dan Alvarez, a 41-year-old librarian who lives in Redwood City, said that he
approaches SOS with an ambivalence common to many Hispanics.

"It does seem unfortunate that one ethnic group is sort of the target of this,"
he said. "But I'm going to vote for it because it'll send a strong message to
Washington that something needs to be done about immigration. Our elected
representatives are not paying attention. I want them to stand up and take
notice."

A third-generation Mexican-American, Alvarez said he began to feel strongly
about the issue after getting involved in the Sierra Club. "I came to believe
that overpopulation, most of it in California caused by immigration, was our No.
1 problem," he said. "It worsens the environment and pollution and makes the
schools overcrowded."

Concerns shared

Almaguer shares many of the same concerns. "To be frank, what I resent is that
(illegal immigrants) are dirty," he said. "They bring the neighborhood down when
they start moving in and taking it over. They live in illegal housing, in
garages. That means there's too many people and too little parking."

Unlike Alvarez and Almaguer, most Hispanic SOS supporters interviewed for this
article did not want to be identified, out of fear they would be ostracized by
other Hispanics.

"I think it's immoral to pay taxes for a bunch of people who have chosen to
break the law," said one Silicon Valley computer consultant. "But I belong to
the Society of Hispanic Engineers and my support of the proposition would hurt
me among my peers."

Sally Vaughn of San Jose, spokeswoman for South Bay Citizens for Immigration
Reform, said most of the pro-SOS Hispanics in her group are afraid to speak out.
"There's a reign of terror out there and people are very, very frightened as
being branded vendido -- sellout," she said. "It's scary."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 80 percent of
California's 1.5 million undocumented immigrants are from Latin America, with
the overwhelming majority from Mexico.

Hispanic support of SOS has come mostly from individuals. Latino political,
business and community groups such as the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the League of United
Latin American Citizens have excoriated it.

S.J. battle is fierce

One of the fiercest grass-roots battles against the initiative is being waged in
San Jose by Californians United Against Proposition 187, whose volunteers are
fanning out across the East Side registering voters and trying to persuade
Hispanics to turn against it. A major problem for the anti-SOS campaign: Latinos
make up 28 percent of California's population, but they represent only 11
percent of the voters.

The volunteers tell voters that because the initiative requires that law
enforcement, social service agencies and schools report "suspected" illegal
immigrants, almost all Hispanics -- because of their appearance or the way they
speak -- will become suspects.

"You're giving the police the power of the Gestapo," said Hugo Hernandez of San
Jose. "The Founding Fathers must be turning over in their graves."

Hernandez, a 23-year-old Desert Storm veteran who lost hearing in one ear when a
Scud missile exploded over his head, said he found it unfathomable how otherwise
decent Californians are supporting the initiative.

"They don't realize that it'll turn me into a second-class citizen, that I'll
have to carry an INS card all the time to prove that I'm legal," he said.

"All of us will be guilty until we're proven innocent," said Alfonso De Alba, a
25-year-old San Jose State student and cannery worker who was born in the United
States but raised in Mexico City. "I'm brown and speak with an accent. I'm
suspect. This law will become a witch hunt. It's completely racial, like Nazi
Germany in the '40s. Why don't they just put yellow stars on us like they did
with the Jews!"

Scare tactics claimed

Hispanics who back SOS claim that their opponents are using scare tactics to
twist the facts. The real issue, supporters say, is whether Hispanics should
advocate "open borders" and condone flagrant violations of immigration laws.

"The United States takes in more immigrants than all the nations of the world
combined," said Jesse Laguna, a staunch Republican from San Diego. "This isn't
racial. If I were to champion the cause of illegal aliens, I would be penalizing
the members of other races who wait in line."

Since most illegal Mexican immigrants move into Mexican-American neighborhoods,
he said, they push up rental prices, crowd their schools and increase the need
for expensive bilingual education. "That's unfair to Anglo teachers, who get
shoved out of their jobs," Laguna said.

Sandra Torres, a San Jose State student, said it didn't surprise her that some
fellow Latinos favored SOS.

"But they should think harder about how this law is going to be used. They
should think about the consequences against people," Torres said. "We'll be
going back to the South of the '60s. But instead of two different sets of
drinking fountains, we'll have two different states."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: ANNA MARIE REMEDIOS -- MERCURY NEWS
David Pacheco, in white shirt at left, trains precinct walkers in San Jose's
East Side who are working to defeat Proposition 187.
941002 FR 22A 3
CHART: Clevland Lee--Mercury News
The ethnic divide on "Save our state"
941002 FR 22A 2; color; 2 pie charts

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 4, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL TRIPLES ARRESTS IN 'GATEKEEPER'

BYLINE: SALLY STREFF BUZBEE, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: San Diego


For the second straight day the Border Patrol nearly tripled its normal number
of illegal immigrant arrests, prompting U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno to
compliment the new crackdown.

"We're just getting such magnificent reports," Reno said in a Monday telephone
call to San Diego agents from her office in Washington. "Everyone has done a
marvelous job."

On Sunday night, border agents stationed throughout the most heavily traveled
5-mile section of the border, just inland from the Pacific Ocean, caught 725
illegal immigrants.

That was about triple the number captured on the same day last year, although
exact figures were not immediately available, said Gustavo De La Vina, the local
Border Patrol chief.

On Saturday night, the first night of Operation Gatekeeper, agents had
apprehended 825 people, more than triple the 259 people caught a year earlier.
All those caught were fingerprinted, photographed and returned to Mexico.

"We're happy as can be," De La Vina said. "For the first time in a long time,
we're doing the job."

The slight decrease from Saturday to Sunday might indicate some migrants have
heard of the new operation and have been hesitant to cross.

"We don't really know for sure," De La Vina said. "The next few days and weeks
will be crucial."

If migrants take up new tactics -- such as trying to cross at spots farther east
-- "we will notice that and move agents there," he said.

Immigration officials in Mexicali, a Mexican border city about 120 miles east of
San Diego, say they are seeing greater numbers of potential illegal crossers
likely headed for the U.S. city of Calexico, The San Diego Union- Tribune
reported.

Also on the Mexican side, Grupo Beta, which patrols the border to limit violence
and banditry against would-be illegal crossers, says a migration shift eastward
toward the mountains would make its job more difficult. Grupo Beta has only 45
agents and a pair of 4-wheel-drive vehicles.

Tijuana human rights lawyer Victor Clark Alfaro says a tighter border will
probably cause a swelling in Tijuana's "floating population" -- those who come
to the city for the purpose of crossing over into the United States. Clark says
joblessness, homelessness and crime may soar there.

Operation Gatekeeper -- which comes after increasing political concern over
immigration -- is designed to duplicate the results of an El Paso border
blockade, but with different tactics.

Both operations attempt to stop migrants before they enter the country, rather
than try to catch them once they are inside.

At the heart of Operation Gatekeeper are 300 new agents scheduled to be placed
directly at the San Diego border, and mostly at night, by this February.

Other parts of "Operation Gatekeeper" -- many already begun the last few months
-- include more fencing, lighting, new trucks and boats and the fingerprinting
of all apprehended migrants.

At San Diego, the agents are placed into three "tiers," one behind the other in
the rugged canyons along the border.

In recent weeks, as the political fight over illegal immigration has heated up,
the Democratic Reno and California's Republican governor, Pete Wilson, have
traded barbs over whether the federal government is doing enough to halt illegal
immigration.

Wilson aides have called Operation Gatekeeper just an "incremental" improvement.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 6, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

STATE GETS U.S. AID TO PAY FOR JAILED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. SNIFFEN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: Washington


Seven states with more than 85 percent of the imprisoned illegal immigrants in
this country will share the first $42.9 million in federal aid to pay for them,
Attorney General Janet Reno announced today.

California will get the largest share of the first distribution, $33.47 million.

"The federal government will, for the first time ever, begin to help states pay
the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens who are in the United States
illegally," Reno told her weekly news conference. "Over the last year and a
half, the United States has heard the calls of states encumbered by the costs
associated with illegal immigration."

California, Texas, Arizona, Florida and New Jersey have sued the federal
government for reimbursement of their expenditures on jailing, educating or
providing services for illegal immigrants.

The cost of illegal immigrants has become a major issue in California Gov. Pete
Wilson's hotly contested re-election battle. Reno has traded several pointed
letters with Wilson, a Republican.

An Urban Institute study commissioned by the Justice Department found that
California has more than 70 percent of the incarcerated illegal immigrants and
the seven states together have more than 20,000 of them. That study was used to
allocate the first round of aid.

The crime bill recently signed by President Clinton provides $1.8 billion over
six years to help states with the prison costs. Of that, $130 million has been
appropriated for this fiscal year. The $42.9 million represents the first third;
the rest will be distributed next fall.

Here is the rest of the distribution: Arizona, $991,900; Florida, $1,073,800;
Illinois, $564,200; New Jersey, $600,600; New York, $4,085,900, and Texas,
$2,120,300.

Reno was joined at the news conference by House members and senators from the
seven states. Several pledged to try to pass larger reimbursement funding in the
future to cover a greater share of state costs, but they called this round a
significant start on the problem.

"Since 1986, there was a law on the books that enabled administrations to
reimburse states for this type of expense," said Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif.
"No other administration ever moved to do that."

Reno said the checks could be sent within three weeks if the governors designate
an agency to receive the money and fill out a standard application form by then.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: WHERE IT GOES
Seven states will share $42.9 million in federal aid to help them cope with
imprisoned illegal immigrants. They are:
State Dollars
Arizona $991,900
California $33,047,000
Florida $1,073,800
Illinois $564,200
New Jersey $600,600
New York $4,085,900
Texas $2,120,300
Source: U.S. Justice Department
MERCURY NEWS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   October 7, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

4 DEAD, 26 MISSING AS BOAT SINKS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 131 words

DATELINE: San Juan, Puerto Rico


An overcrowded wooden boat believed to be carrying illegal immigrants to Puerto
Rico caught fire and sank today off the Dominican Republic. Four people died and
26 were missing.

The boat appeared to be a "yola," a sailing vessel commonly used to ferry people
illegally to Puerto Rico, said Christopher Haley, a Coast Guard spokesman in San
Juan.

The Guard said all 117 aboard the 38-foot wooden boat that sank off Point
Nisibon this morning were Dominicans.

"That's extremely overloaded," Haley said.

The U.S. Border Patrol in Puerto Rico has detained 30,000 undocumented
immigrants the last seven years, most of them Dominicans arriving by sea.

The U.S. Coast Guard and a Dominican naval vessel searched for possible
survivors today.

Cause of the fire was not known.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 7, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SINK OUR STATE: 187 TAKES US TO A MORAL AND FISCAL PRECIPICE

BYLINE: RON UNZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 902 words


THE POLITICAL hysteria about illegal immigration, inflamed by cynical
politicians who believe in nothing except election victory, has brought us to a
moral precipice. Polls show strong public support for Proposition 187, the
so-called Save Our State initiative.

At first glance, the measure, which prevents illegal immigrants from receiving
public services, might appear quite attractive to opponents of California's
overgrown social welfare state. If rolling back the tide of wealth
redistribution has to start somewhere, why not with recipients who aren't even
legal residents? Add to this California's horrendous budget deficits, and any
measure that purports to save tax money sounds extremely attractive.

Proposition 187 is extremely attractive, until one actually reads the measure,
which very few people have done. In practice, S.O.S. would be a disaster for
both personal liberty and state finance.

Illegal immigrants are already ineligible for state welfare assistance or food
stamps, and their estimated use of medical services prohibited by S.O.S. is
quite low, just a tiny fraction of 1 percent of California's huge budget. The
only substantial government cost associated with illegal immigration is
therefore through the public school system, which immigrant children attend.

Illegal immigrants compose perhaps 5 percent of California's total population
and most are in their prime working years of 25 to 40; those with children
obviously make use of the public schools, and the sums involved are quite
sizable. So one of the central thrusts of S.O.S. is to root out these immigrant
children from the public schools.

How to do this? By turning public school teachers and administrators into de
facto INS agents, forcing them to investigate those they suspect may have a
father or mother who entered the country illegally. Having schools encourage
small children to inform on the status of their parents has heavy totalitarian
overtones.

The initiative gets worse. Since the authors view immigrant workers with as much
alarm as immigrant lay-abouts, the measure mandates a five-year prison sentence
or $25,000 fine for any illegal immigrant who uses false identity papers in
pursuit of employment. Although estimates vary, perhaps 1 million of the illegal
immigrants currently employed as California's gardeners, housemaids, hotel
workers, or construction laborers have some form of false identity documents.

California's bloated, inefficient prison system has average annual costs of
$23,000 per inmate; turning hundreds of thousands of our hard-working, tax-
paying, minimum-wage gardeners and busboys into prison inmates -- at a cost of
tens of billions of dollars -- hardly seems a sensible means of solving our
state's budget problems.

A state that pays generous welfare benefits to those unwilling to work and
imprisons those who do work defies rationality.

How do the principal advocates of the initiative respond to these charges, which
I raised with them privately during my recent Republican primary challenge to
Gov. Pete Wilson?

One prominent S.O.S. supporter claimed that much of the initiative was
"obviously unconstitutional" and would be thrown out by the courts. Another felt
that judges would refuse to enforce a law so obviously unjust. But one fervent
grass-roots activist had the simplest defense, arguing that S.O.S. was intended
to be unworkable and bankrupt the state, thereby forcing Washington to finally
"do something" to stop illegal immigration, such as planting land mines along
our southern border. And these are the views of the initiative's supporters!

Despite its anti-welfare state trappings, then, Proposition 187 is extremely bad
law. It also masks the real issue in California and elsewhere, which is not
illegal immigration, but immigration period.

Nearly all those groups in the forefront of the crusade against illegal
immigration are just as hostile to the legal kind, and are simply using the
former issue as a stalking horse for the latter.

But consider places in America where the deepest concerns have already been
realized, and white Americans of European origin have already become a minority
of the population.

San Jose, the third largest city in California and the 11th largest in the
nation, is one example. It has a white population of less than 50 percent, and
contains mostly Asian and Hispanic immigrants -- 20 percent and 30 percent,
respectively -- including large numbers of impoverished illegal immigrants. San
Jose has a flourishing economy, the lowest murder and robbery rates of any major
city in America (less than one-fifth the rates in Dallas, for example), and
virtually no significant ethnic conflict.

Furthermore, Silicon Valley depends on immigrant professionals to maintain its
technological edge. A third of all the engineers and chip designers here are
foreign born, and if they left (or if their future inflow were cut off)
America's computer industry would probably go with them.

Illegal immigrants are viewed as California's unwanted house guests. One way to
drive away such guests is to burn your house to the ground. That's the
Proposition 187 solution to illegal immigration. It would be a financial and
social disaster for California, and the worst moral disaster for our state since
the internment of Japanese-Americans in 1942. No sincere Californian should
support it.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
Ron Unz, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur, received 34 percent of the vote in the
Republican gubernatorial primary election in June.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 9, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

YES OR NO ON PROPOSITION 187? YES: IT UPHOLDS THE LAW, PROTECTS JOBS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6F

LENGTH: 497 words


Your editorial "The Prop. 187 myth" may or may not have interpreted figures
correctly, but the real point at issue is the fact that "illegal immigrants" are
here illegally, and should, in most cases, be deported.

One of your other comments to the effect that "together with Mexico and other
nations we can find real solutions to illegal immigration" is also wanting. You
know as well as I that the state of California cannot legally make agreements
regarding immigration. This is solely in the province of the U.S. government.

This being the case, both political parties have consistently, over many years,
done nothing but give lip service to solutions. The rest of the country, with
few exceptions such as Texas and Florida, and possibly a few northern states
such as Washington, shows absolutely no interest in the problem.

While Prop. 187 may be a lousy law, no other solutions have been forthcoming
from you or anyone else.

- Leo J. Battel

San Jose
* Your editorial against Proposition 187 asserted that illegal immigrants help
our economy by taking low wage jobs as restaurant workers, janitors, and farm
workers. In fact, illegals take those jobs from our poorest citizens and legal
immigrants. After all, why pay a legal resident eight bucks an hour when you can
hire an illegal for five. Such displacement of workers increases our welfare
costs and, more importantly, increases the despair and social malaise in our
poor neighborhoods.

You journalists would change your opinion about Prop. 187 if your wage structure
were threatened by illegal immigrants. Or perhaps you will decide to help the
economy by working for $5 an hour.

- John Mitchem

San Jose
* I wonder sometimes if you really stop and think how your editorial against
Proposition 187 can polarize instead of unify and educate.

So you know where I'm coming from, I am 60, daughter of immigrants who came
during a time when quotas were in effect and sponsors were required to guarantee
a job, shelter and health care. I married a legal immigrant who had no
government help. You see, when you try to validate the term "illegal immigrant,"
I view it as an enormous insult to those millions of people, from many lands,
not just Mexico, who have followed the legal path, sometimes waiting years to
gain entry.

The way I view it, you encourage these people to lead a lifetime of second-
class existences with no real hope for a future. It is all well and good to care
for your fellow man and if each of us did our share in this regard, what a
better world it would be. But I believe we have a duty first to those at home,
and I think you can agree this alone is a monumental job.

While I am not a great fan of Gov. Pete Wilson, I do agree with him on this very
controversial issue and for his taking a stand for what is best for California.
We have been lifelong contributing members of the slowly sinking middle class,
and we are tired. Give us a rest.

- M. M. DelPrete

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 12, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ORDER AT THE BORDER A HUMAN 'FENCE' WORKS WELL, THOUGH IT IS JUST A STOPGAP

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 319 words


LAST year, Operation Blockade in El Paso set a new trend in the war against
illegal immigration, even though it was essentially just a lot of bored U.S.
Border Patrol agents standing guard and sitting in trucks in plain view of
would-be crossers on the other side of the Rio Grande.

California hankered for its own operation, even as the success of the El Paso
crackdown lessened as illegal immigrants found other places to cross. Operation
Gatekeeper opened last week in the San Diego-Tijuana area to similar initial
success. Apprehensions went way up the first weekend. The sight of more than 200
uniformed agents per shift along a 14-mile stretch of border from the Pacific
Ocean to the mountains east of San Ysidro is impressive.

As deterrents to illegal immigration, beefed up border patrols work better than
steel fences and armed pursuits across the desert. But they are stopgaps, not
solutions.

Well, some would say, why don't we go all out and expand Operation Gate- keeper
across the whole border, all 2,000 miles of it?

The border is too long, and the number of illegal immigrants who actually cross
the border is too small to justify the enormous cost. One fact underscores the
folly of a sealed border: Six of 10 illegal immigrants don't run or swim across.
They arrive legally and simply overstay their visas.

The smart thing to do is discourage illegal border crossers by squeezing the
busiest points of entry, as in San Diego and El Paso, and then invest in more
promising solutions.

For example, government could promote further trade agreements to increase
employment in Mexico, as well as vigorously enforce workplace laws to remove the
incentives for unscrupulous employers who recruit undocumented workers. A
binational border management and policing program would help reduce border
tension, streamline the paperwork for legal work permits, and break up smuggling
rings.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 13, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

OFFICIAL SAYS U.S. CAN SECURE BORDER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 144 words


The Clinton administration says it has a plan to secure the entire Mexican
border against illegal immigration and accused California Gov. Pete Wilson of
demagoguery on the issue.

Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick told reporters today the administration
is 18 months into a three-year program to increase Border Patrol manpower and
equipment.

Justice officials have consulted the Pentagon's Center for Low-Intensity
Conflict for advice on the most effective places to locate new sensors, night-
vision scopes and additional Border Patrol agents, she said.

"Wilson in large part has been responsible for the very schizophrenic
immigration policy that you have seen in California," she said. "He was a very
strong voice for permitting employers in California to hire illegal aliens. He
was adamant that we not enforce employer sanctions . . . "

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 15, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION INITIATIVE STILL HAS BIG LEAD

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 69 words


With California voters increasingly convinced that illegal immigration is one of
the major problems facing the state, Proposition 187, the emotionally divisive
anti-illegal immigration initiative, continues to hold a strong lead in the Los
Angeles Times Poll. Less than a month before the state election, the get-tough
measure is favored by 59 percent to 33 percent among likely voters -- a 26-point
margin.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 15, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROSECUTORS TO HELP BEEF UP MEXICO BORDER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 127 words


Attorney General Janet Reno is sending 65 more federal prosecutors to
California, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico to crack down on illegal immigration.
"I am trying to make sure they get the resources they need to do the job, to
pursue all available remedies and to do it the right way," Reno said Friday in
San Diego. The move is part of the administration's three-year strategy to try
to seal the 2,000-mile border with Mexico. The plan also includes adding agents
and equipment, all funded in the crime bill Congress recently passed. The moves
are also intended to demonstrate the administration's resolve in the face of
criticism -- and lawsuits -- from governors claiming their taxpayers are bearing
the brunt of social spending on illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Attorney General Janet Reno said Friday she plans to assign 15 special assistant
U.S. attorneys to California, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico to handle crimes
involving illegal immigration. Under the nation's new crime bill,
illegal-immigrant felons who are deported to Mexico but return to the United
States will face up to 20 years in prison. Smugglers will face up to 10 years
for each immigrant they sneak into the country and phony-document traffickers
could get up to 15 years in prison.
941015 FR 21A 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 18, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187: IMMIGRANTS FACE 'UGLY TIME'

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1344 words


To many Californians, Proposition 187 is a sizzling ballot measure aimed at
sending a message on illegal immigration.

To Rosita, a 42-year-old San Jose janitor, it's a dagger aimed at her heart. She
is one of California's estimated 1.6 million illegal immigrants.

"It is a very ugly, very difficult time for us," said Rosita, who, like others,
asked that her name be changed to shield her identity. "Wherever I go, it's all
that people I know are talking about."

Among her friends, the ballot measure is simply known as La Proposicion. It's
intended to deny a public education and most other public benefits to adults and
children who are in the country illegally. Hospital employees, educators and
social workers would be required to report people they "suspect" are illegal
immigrants.

The suspects wouldn't be hard to find. In affluent Silicon Valley, undocumented
immigrants work as janitors in high-tech firms, pickers in strawberry and flower
fields, busboys in the best restaurants and servants in tony homes in the hills.
Four out of five are from Latin America.

"To me, the proposition simply means that American people don't like Mexican
immigrants," Eladio, an 18-year-old janitor, said the other day at a picnic in
San Jose's Alum Rock Park.

"I don't understand why they hate the Mexican people," said Eladio, who wore a
white cowboy hat, gold crucifix, snakeskin buckle and a Nadie es ilegal! (Nobody
is illegal!) button. "The Americans benefit from the Mexicans. They do all their
dirty work."

Because many undocumented immigrants have little schooling and can't read,
getting information about Proposition 187 can be difficult -- and perplexing. "I
had only one year of elementary school in Michoacan," Rosita, who ran across the
border at Tijuana one night four years ago, said in Spanish.

Rosita has two children in schools on the East Side. She worries that La
Proposicion will force them out.

If her kids can't go to school, Rosita said, she will search for some kind of
alternative education, perhaps a parochial school. "If I can't find new schools
for them, then my last resort will be to go back to Mexico," Rosita said. "A
good education is too important. It's one thing I love about living in
California. I want my kids to have a future."

Some Proposition 187 supporters say they sympathize with the individuals --
particularly the children -- who would be hurt by the initiative.

'Here without permission'

"No one has any hateful attitudes toward these people," said Sally Vaughn of
South Bay Citizens for Immigration Reform. But "each and every person who
violated our immigration laws knew what they were doing -- they took their
chances. Where is the morality in providing services to people who came here
without permission, without invitation?"

Standing outside the Day Worker Job Center in a shopping center at King and
Story roads, Miguel said he couldn't understand why Gov. Pete Wilson and other
Californians had turned against undocumented workers.

"To me, everybody -- white, black, brown -- lives under the same sun," said
Miguel, 19, a native of Sinaloa, Mexico, who entered the country seven months
ago. "Why do I have to leave?

"Some day I will want to go back to my country," said Miguel, who does house
painting and other odd jobs. "But first I need to make some money. My people in
Mexico have nothing."

Inside the center, Domitilo was painstakingly painting a bird house that Most
Holy Trinity Church, which helps fund the center, hoped to sell at a
fund-raiser.

"It doesn't matter what I think of the proposition," said Domitilo, who came
here illegally from Jalisco, Mexico, five years ago. "We have no power in this
land."

Lydia Ausin, director of the center, said Domitilo's reaction was typical. Few
illegal immigrants feel they have any right to challenge the proposition, said
Ausin, who finds 187 revolting.

"The whole idea makes me feel that we're not in the United States," said Ausin,
who emigrated from Spain in 1971. "I've always admired the American mind, so
open to new ideas and other people. Something like this makes me feel I'm in the
old Soviet Union."

Most day laborers at the center said businesses and homeowners paid them in cash
to help them avoid detection -- and taxes. Illegal immigrants who worked "on the
books" said they simply gave false Social Security numbers.

Men prowl the shopping center parking lot at Story and King to sell numbers and
bogus "green cards" allowing immigrants to work in this country. Under
Proposition 187, the sellers would face a $75,000 fine or five years in state
prison.

Few would leave

Of the dozen illegal Mexican immigrants interviewed for this story, only
Domitilo said he would definitely return to Mexico if Proposition 187 wins at
the polls Nov. 8. Most said they would wait and see.

Several illegals smiled at suggestions that they had come to California for free
medical care.

"Mexicans only go to the doctor when it's a matter of life or death," said
Javier, a 19-year-old busboy in an Italian restaurant. "If I got sick, I would
just go to a private doctor."

Illegal immigrants who belong to labor unions could be protected from some of
the more draconian provisions of 187, since their health and welfare benefits
are through the private sector.

Rosita recently broke her elbow while mopping a factory floor at Hewlett-
Packard Co. Luckily, she had medical insurance through Local 1877 of the Service
Employees International Union in San Jose.

But even with the insurance, Rosita said, the life of an illegal immigrant is
fraught with worry. "There's no peace," she said. "All the time, we are living
afraid of the INS."

Two years ago, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service did a
comprehensive study of the illegal population by examining records of people
apprehended by the INS, foreigners who had overstayed visas and U.S. residents
who applied for amnesty under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.

The INS estimated that there were 1.44 million illegal immigrants living in
California at the time -- 43 percent of the U.S. total. Of those, the INS said,
more than half were from Mexico. Eighty percent were from Latin American
countries.

The INS says that roughly half of the illegals enter by sneaking across the
2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border. Most of the rest simply overstay tourist,
education and work visas.

Deportation odds

Although Rosita and most illegal immigrants worry about being deported, the
reality is that few now get caught. California's population is too large and INS
resources too limited to catch many once they get past the border area.

In the 11-month period ending Aug. 31, Border Patrol agents south of San Diego
nabbed 422,502 illegal immigrants, according to INS statistics. That compares
with 7,156 people apprehended by agents during the same period in the area
covered by the San Francisco district office of the INS. The area includes San
Jose and much of Northern California.

Proposition 187 proponents acknowledge that the INS would be severely strained
if all provisions took effect at once. But most say that they expect years of
lawsuits because so many of 187's provisions conflict with federal laws and
court rulings.

In a 1982 Texas case, the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that all children in the
United States, whether they are legal residents or not, have a right to a public
education. But because six new justices have been appointed since the decision,
proponents of 187 are hopeful that the high court will reconsider its decision.
In any case, the chances that the law will affect Rosita's two children, age 13
and 16, are small.

"The kids in school now will be collecting Social Security before the lawyers
are done with this thing," said Alan Nelson, one of the initiative's co-authors.

Still, Rosita said she didn't want to take any chances -- and has joined her
union's crusade against the measure.

"I'm also going to talk to God," she said. "I will ask Him to help us defeat 187
and Pete Wilson."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: Carl Neiburger--Mercury News
California's illegal immigrants
941018 FR 8A 3; pie chart

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 18, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AFTER THE 'INVADERS' LET'S GET THE JUDGES

BYLINE: PATRICK J. BUCHANAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


Those who make peaceful reform impossible make violent revolution inevitable,
John F. Kennedy said of Latin America in the day of the dictators.

Our own calcified national establishment should take heed.

Here in California, angry and frustrated citizens, denied relief from a flood
tide of 1 million illegal aliens pouring over the Mexican border every year,
have taken the law into their own hands. Voters are preparing to impose on
California a statute ending all public assistance -- save emergency medical aid
-- to illegal aliens.

A perfect horror to both the neo-conservative and neo-liberal elites,
Proposition 187, nevertheless, is sweeping toward victory.

Save Our State (SOS), the proposition is called by those who forced it onto the
Nov. 8 ballot. Polls show SOS winning among almost every group, save liberal
Democrats, and running even among the states Hispanic-American voters.

Called everything from Draconian to an abomination, SOS is yet another sign of
the populist revolution rolling across America.

For years Californians begged the federal government to do its constitutional
duty and protect the state from foreign invasion by the tens of thousands who
break U.S. immigration laws every week.

But Washington was paralyzed by fear of media demagoguery about "racism,"
"xenophobia," "nativism." So, presidents of both parties ignored California's
cry and refused to defend the national interest. Even though it might have saved
California for President Bush, he dismissed out of hand his own platform calling
for building a fence on the Mexican border to protect America's frontiers.

President Clinton has done the same, responding to the pleas of Californians by
appointing a commission to study the problem.

But there is no need to "study" the problem. It is quite simple: California is
being invaded, and the federal government is obligated to defend California's
border, and expel the invaders. What is so difficult about that? Any nation
incapable of defending its borders in this age of mass migrations is on its way
to extinction.

The press claims SOS will result in hundreds of thousands of children being
thrown out of public schools onto the streets, where they will join gangs. The
fear-mongering is under way.

But why are taxpayers of California, who are picking up and moving out as
rapidly as illegal aliens pour in, required to educate children from Mexico, and
every country that seems to export its population to the United States? If a man
and his family, uninvited, walk into your home, are you obligated to feed,
clothe and house him and his family, and educate his children, indefinitely?

Mexico and other countries have simply found another way to export their social
problems and suck foreign aid out of a United States, which, despite its wealth
and power, is a morally weaker and flabbier nation than it was in the days of
the young republic.

But, while America's establishment has been made soft as pudding by years of
over-imbibing the politics of guilt and pity, the nation's people are regaining
their natural verve.

In 16 states, voters have imposed term limits on all elected politicians. Eight
more states may do so in November. In California, not only is SOS on this
ballot, but 1996 may see a ballot initiative to purge all state institutions of
reverse discrimination, by outlawing all quotas, set-asides and racial
preferences.

If SOS wins, the issue of illegal aliens will vault to the top of the national
action agenda. And the politically correct who refuse to deal with it in 1995
will become the politically unemployed of 1996.

California's Gov. Pete Wilson has seen this issue carry him out of intensive
care to a potential landslide three weeks from now. If that happens, others will
get the message, go forth, and do likewise.

But there is one last bastion of the establishment, standing in the path of
populist revolution and reform: the judges.

Last week in Colorado, Amendment 2, which overturned all gay rights ordinances
and swept to victory in 1992, was thrown out by Colorado's Supreme Court.
State-imposed term limits on Congress are being reviewed by the U.S. Supreme
Court, which may toss them out as a bouquet to Capitol Hill. And even if SOS
passes, it, too, will have to be reviewed by the Supreme Court.

But, if the courts deny the people the right to write their own laws and reform
their own institutions, there is a remedy, left us by the founding fathers, who
were mindful of tyranny in all its forms. That is, to demand a reshaping of the
courts and to subject our most arrogant politicians, those who wear black robes,
to the rule of law.

Term limits, voter recall and public firing of judges, local, state and federal,
as in California, are the next steps -- toward taking America back.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
Patrick J. Buchanan is a nationally syndicated columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 24, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHUTTING DOWN THE BORDER NEW CRACKDOWN WORKING, INS SAYS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1836 words

DATELINE: San Ysidro


A few minutes before sunset, just a couple of feet into U.S. territory, the
eight young Mexican men smoking cigarettes and hanging around Smuggler's Canyon
looked bored -- and worried.

It wasn't just that U.S. Border Patrol agent Marco Ramirez was standing several
feet away in the well-worn crossing area just west of Tijuana. They'd all seen
la migra many times before. In fact, they'd all been caught by Ramirez's fellow
agents many times before. Sneaking across the border at nightfall was old hat.

But one thing was different: La migra now says it's serious about preventing
them from coming to America. The games are over.

The feds call it Operation Gatekeeper. The people who want to crash the gate
call it unfair.

"I can't get back home," Jorge Jimenez, 39, an undocumented construction worker
from Orange County, lamented as he sat on the Tijuana River levee. "I've been
caught 10 times this week. This isn't right."

When Operation Gatekeeper began Oct. 1, it was greeted by a mostly skeptical
public, which had seen border crackdowns come and go like the seasons. But this
time federal officials seem determined and seem to be getting results. And, they
say, it's not just because it's an election year in which illegal immigration,
at least in California, is Topic Number One.

Buoyed by the success of Operation Hold-the-Line in El Paso, Texas, where more
than 600 agents have lined a 20-mile stretch of the Rio Grande day and night for
the last year, the Border Patrol is adding hundreds of new agents, laser
fingerprinting machines and other high-tech wizardry to try to plug the most
notoriously porous part of the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border.

Tensions near boiling point

The San Diego operation, coupled with the incendiary debate over whether
Proposition 187 is the way to deter illegal immigration, is bringing tensions to
a boil on both sides of the border.

Eight days ago, some 70,000 demonstrators marched from East Los Angeles and
surrounded Los Angeles City Hall to denounce the ballot measure, which would
deny public benefits to illegal immigrants. And Tijuana is reeling from a sudden
influx of recent arrivals from Mexico's interior who can't make it across the
border. Tijuana officials say they fear increased crime, disease, despair and a
proliferation of the city's shantytowns.

On Columbus Day, Tijuana business people and students organized a one-day
boycott of San Diego businesses to protest what signs called the "racist
policies" of the administration of Gov. Pete Wilson, who has made illegal
immigration a major campaign theme. The Tijuana City Council voted 11-0 to pass
a resolution saying that Wilson was no longer welcome.

'Like Hitler to us'

"Pete Wilson is like Hitler to us -- like Genghis Khan," said Jose Sanchez, a
would-be border crosser and former San Fernando Valley resident who pointed to a
huge new painting on the Tijuana River levee. The artwork depicts a Christ-like
figure with brown skin dying on a cross.

"The artist is right," he said. "The Mexican people are being crucified."

Southern Californians, on the other hand, are taking a hard line on illegals.
The latest Field Poll on Proposition 187 showed that Southern Californians
backed it 62 percent to 28 percent. Northern Californians favored the measure by
a much lesser margin, 50 percent to 36 percent.

"I think the Los Angeles riots were the last straw for many people," said Ben
Seeley of nearby Imperial Beach, sipping a Bohemia beer in an outdoor Tijuana
cafe. "Fifty percent of the rioting and looting was done by Hispanics -- and
illegals were a big part of the problem."

"When I was growing up in Southern California, it was wonderful," said the
57-year-old Seeley, whose wife is Mexican-American. "The open-border advocates
just went too far."

But Sanchez, who was nabbed by plainclothes Border Patrol agents in San Ysidro
twice in two days, feels things have gone too far the other way. He said he was
giving up and heading to Guadalajara.

One recent Tijuana study, however, says that four of 10 people caught by the
Border Patrol are choosing to wait it out in town until U.S. border officials
ease up. But that, the officials say, isn't going to happen.

"We're shutting down this border. We're making history," said Gustavo de la
Vina, the new Western director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"Before, it was a joke."

Just a few years ago, he said, much of the 14-mile stretch between the Pacific
Ocean and Otay Mountain to the east had an old fence with hundreds of holes in
it. The beach at the border had no fence at all.

"Every night the beach was a wide open highway," said Ramirez, who joined the
Border Patrol a decade ago, as he looked at a solid steel fence that now extends
about 100 yards into the Pacific.

Today, the number of agents at dusk, about 200, is double the number of last
October. And in the next three months, 220 new agents will join the Border
Patrol's San Diego sector.

For the last five years, the patrol has been building the new fence, made of old
military aircraft landing mats. In addition, 222 new vehicles -- mostly white
Ford Broncos -- have been added to the patrol's fleet.

There are also 300 new hand-held radios, two high-speed boats and scores of new
motion sensors and infrared scopes that allow agents to see miles in the dark.
And much of the border has been lit up like a ballpark.

Fingerprinting computer

Sitting in a room dominated by a Pentagon-style satellite photo of the border,
de la Vina's eyes grew wide when he started talking about the new fingerprinting
computer that employs technology developed by Identix Inc. of Sunnyvale. Using a
Windows program, a laser scanner and a mouse, agents are able to immediately see
how many times each illegal entrant has been caught trying the same thing
before.

"For the first time, we'll be able to deal effectively with recidivism," said de
la Vina, a 25-year Border Patrol veteran.

The computers, which went on line at the beginning of the month, will match each
illegal entrant's fingerprints with an electronic image stored in the system's
memory. Eventually, the system will be linked to computers that contain files on
"criminal aliens" -- illegal immigrants who have been arrested for crimes in the
United States. Tens of thousands are in prisons. Even more have been deported.

Criminal aliens were on the mind of Attorney General Janet Reno at a news
conference at San Diego's U.S. Grant Hotel. There, she announced the addition of
65 more prosecutors in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas to focus on
immigration document counterfeiters and immigrant smugglers, whom Reno called
"slave traders."

There seems little doubt that a tighter border -- the Identix fingerprinting
system in particular -- will discourage illegal immigrants with criminal records
from coming across.

Sanchez, who speaks nearly perfect English and has a wife and 6-year-old son in
Reseda, is one of them. He said he was actually a legal resident from 1978 to
1986. But then, the 33-year-old Sanchez said, he was sent to state prison for
three years after being convicted of cocaine possession. He was deported two
weeks ago.

Neatly dressed

Standing on the Tijuana River levee, Sanchez was neatly dressed in a purple and
black ski sweater, brown corduroy pants and new Riddell running shoes. His only
other possessions, an extra shirt and pants, were squished into a plastic
grocery bag.

"For me, everything is lost," said Sanchez, who worked for two decades in Los
Angeles restaurants as a cook, waiter, bartender and assistant manager. "I don't
consider myself a criminal. It's not like I killed somebody. I just had some
cocaine."

Because of his record, Border Patrol agents warned him that if he got caught one
more time "they'd throw me in jail for two or three years. That's why I'm going
to see my mother in Guadalajara."

Virtually all of the dozens of people hanging around Smuggler's Canyon and the
river levee were men. Most said they had worked in the Los Angeles area for
years and had gone to visit relatives in Mexico. And now they were stuck.

Unlike Sanchez, most didn't have to worry about being jailed when they crossed
the border because they didn't have a record. So, they said, they'd keep trying
-- and head east if necessary.

Indeed, the Border Patrol says Gatekeeper is pushing border crossers into
mountains, fields and industrial lands east of the city. Arrests in the remote
Campo station, about 30 miles from San Diego, are more than double for the first
13 days of October, up to 241 from 96 the previous year.

'Like a bed sheet'

"The border is like a bed sheet," said Janet Napolitano, the U.S. attorney for
Arizona, where Nogales south of Tucson has become the latest hot spot. "If you
pull one corner, it's going to wrinkle somewhere else."

But de la Vina said the shift east is exactly what the Border Patrol wants.
Crossing into a populated area, he said, is much simpler because it's so much
easier to blend in with the local population. The agency, he said, wants to push
illegal entrants into more desolate areas so sensors and night scopes can better
detect them.

Immigrant-rights groups say that the Border Patrol is dreaming -- that desperate
people will find a way to get in.

"Gatekeeper is just a drop in the bucket," said Roberto Martinez, director of
the U.S.-Mexico border program of the American Friends Service Committee.
"People are not going to travel 1,000 or 1,500 miles just to be turned back.
Many of them have jobs waiting for them here."

Many complaints

Martinez said that Gatekeeper has already generated a stream of complaints about
Border Patrol agents being too aggressive in taking people into custody. "Women
are complaining that the agents make sexual remarks to them," he said. "Men say
they are strip-searched and left without food in cold rooms for hours. "Every
country has a right to control its borders, but this is the torture of unarmed
civilians," he said. "There's no other word to call it."

Border Patrol agents call the charges nonsense.

"Sure, there are some bad apples -- as there are in any business," said Ramirez,
whose father was an illegal Mexican immigrant. "But the agents I know treat
people with respect. I've known some who'll take hungry families to McDonald's
and pay with their own money."

The fact that the Clinton administration is cracking down at the border a few
weeks before the Nov. 8 election has prompted Wilson and other Republicans to
accuse Reno and other officials of political gimmickry. In turn, Reno and other
Washington officials accuse Wilson of demagoguery.

De la Vina said it was his idea to start Gatekeeper Oct. 1. "It was simply the
start of the fiscal year for us," he said.

Reno contends the government is at the midway point of an elaborate three- year
plan to secure the entire Southwest border.

"Each border area is different," she said. "We want to do it in a smart, correct
way."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Diagram;
DIAGRAM: New York Times
Three lines of defense to catch illegal immigrants
941024 FR 12A 1
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
A Tijuana jewelry vendor surveys potential clients.
941024 FR 12A 2
PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Two men size up the 12-foot steel wall at the west end of the border. 941024 FR
1A 1; color
PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
At left, an infrared camera scans heat from horses to fix a location.
941024 FR 1A 2; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 24, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AN EPIDEMIC ON THE BALLOT PROP. 187 WOULD PROMOTE A RESURGENCE OF DEADLY TB

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 388 words


BARBARA Rieder knows an epidemic when she sees one, and Proposition 187
qualifies.

The director of public nursing in Santa Clara County, Rieder has seen outbreaks
of flu, measles, AIDS and other diseases during her 20 years on the front lines.
This year it's the re-emergence of tuberculosis and emergence of Prop. 187 that
worry her. And us.

"We're going to see a resurgence of TB you never thought would be possible in
this county and this state," she says.

If it passes, 187 will be the biggest TB carrier of all. It would force Rieder's
nurses and other medical workers to report suspected illegal immigrants. Knowing
this, undocumented people will avoid treatment, giving TB an opening to spread
uncontrolled.

A team of researchers in Los Angeles recently interviewed 313 people with TB, a
fifth of them illegal immigrants. Rather than drive these TB carriers out of the
country, the scientists conclude, Prop. 187 would increase their fear of contact
with medical authorities and drive them further underground.

Not that TB needs a push to spread. While the wealthiest nations nearly wiped it
out by the 1950s, not nearly so much progress was made in the Third World, where
TB kills 3 million a year. Now it's coming back here. Santa Clara County reports
300 people with active TB and an estimated 100,000 with simple TB infection,
meaning it's waiting for a trigger that may or may not come.

The key to fighting TB is to detect it early and treat it immediately. TB feasts
on neglect. In the disease's early stages, it has no symptoms. It's usually
discovered in routine checkups for coughs, fever, fatigue, weight loss or
swollen glands.

Nobody knows how many illegal immigrants are infected, but even a small number
who remain underground can keep an epidemic going. It's estimated that each TB
carrier in Santa Clara County infects seven others.

Something tells us Rieder and her public health nurses would rather go to jail
than snitch on their patients. But if 187 passes, their undocumented patients
will hide even from them.

Among its many other damaging effects, Proposition 187 would work against TB
detection and other public health efforts that affect everyone, legal and
undocumented residents alike. They call it the "save our state" initiative. In
fact, it would sicken our state.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 27, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187'S LEAD WANES, POLL SHOWS 'SOS' ADVANTAGE FALLS FROM 37 POINTS TO 12

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 918 words


California voters, reconsidering the negative implications of Proposition 187,
are increasingly turning against the initiative to curb illegal immigration and
now favor it just 52 percent to 40 percent, the latest Field Poll shows.

That's a sharp drop in support from just a month ago when the measure - which
would deny education and non-emergency medical care to illegal immigrants - led
57 to 31 percent. And it represents a huge decline from the Field Poll in July
when, with a 64-27 percent lead, Proposition 187's passage seemed inevitable.

The trend against Proposition 187 now suggests "a very close election with the
possibility of the measure being defeated," said pollsters Mark DiCamillo and
Mervin Field.

This movement appears to be the result of at least three factors: the
initiative's prominence as a defining issue in the races for governor and U.S.
Senate, a noisy argument among GOP heavyweights and President Clinton's much-
publicized opposition. For the first time, Democrats now oppose the measure, by
53-39 percent, while Republicans continue to support it, 66-25 percent.

Moreover, some analysts said, the decline in support for the proposition could
have an impact in the governor's race, because Pete Wilson has so closely
aligned himself with the measure that "Yes on Proposition 187" is the slogan in
one of his latest television commercials.

"Everyone assumed that Wilson was on the side of the angels and maybe that's not
true," Democratic pollster Paul Maslin said. "If the final music in this
campaign is about an initiative that's losing and involving a governor that
people already view cynically for his use of this issue - watch out."

The Field Poll, which surveyed 681 Californians, including 426 likely voters,
Oct. 21-25, found that supporters of Proposition 187 are acutely aware of its
potential drawbacks. For example, 59 percent of those who favor the measure say
it's likely that "it will force many legal residents to prove their legal status
because of their name or the way they look."

"That's astounding to me," said DiCamillo, director of the survey. "People who
are inclined to vote 'yes' are recognizing many of the drawbacks. But they still
want to pass this because they are so intent on sending a message."

'It will send a message'

Indeed, 90 percent of those backing the initiative - and 56 percent of those
opposed - say "it will send a message to the federal government to do more to
protect our national borders."

Yet half of those who favor Proposition 187 - and eight in 10 of those opposed -
agreed "it will turn schoolteachers and other public employees into informers
for the immigration service" and that "it will divide Californians more along
racial and ethnic lines."

Treasurer Kathleen Brown underscored that message at a press conference
Wednesday in San Francisco, where she denounced Wilson's support for the
initiative as "a cynical plot to keep his power as governor."

"Proposition 187 is fundamentally wrong," said Brown, whose supporters oppose
the measure 67-24 percent. "When you start dividing people by their race, their
color, their accent and their last name, which is what this does - and having a
governor who promotes that - I think that's fundamentally wrong in California."
A spokesman for Wilson rejected that analysis as "intentionally misleading."
"Once the initiative has passed and the dust has cleared and Kathleen Brown and
the other apologists for illegal immigration have stopped stirring fears, there
will be a better understanding of what this initiative is all about," said
Wilson aide Dan Schnur. Wilson's backers support the measure 74-19 percent.

Kemp and Bennett

Proposition 187 has also split the contenders for U.S. Senate, with Democratic
Sen. Dianne Feinstein opposed and Rep. Michael Huffington, R-Santa Barbara, in
favor. Adding fuel to this partisan battle last week were former Republican
Cabinet secretaries Jack Kemp and William Bennett, who said the initiative
undercuts Republican principles.

The intensity of the debate reflects the stakes surrounding the measure.
DiCamillo said those voting "yes" right now are "more apt to change their minds
than the 'no' voters."

The results of the Field Poll were welcomed by the anti-Proposition 187 forces,
who have been unable to raise adequate funds to mount a campaign against the
measure. Thus far, Taxpayers Against 187, a coalition of labor, health and
education groups, has run only two 60-second radio commercials.

Al Lundeen, a spokesman for the coalition, said he hoped the results of the
Field Poll would spur anti-Proposition 187 groups to dig deep. "This is going to
go down to the wire."

But Ron Prince, chairman of the Orange County-based Save Our State Committee,
took the poll results in stride. "I think it's to be expected when you get this
close to the election," said Prince, who said his committee has no plans for
radio or television advertising.

Other groups running ads

However, Los Angeles County Supervisor Mike Antonovich this week began airing a
"Yes on 187" commercial on 58 cable TV systems in Southern California. And the
Federation for American Immigration Reform has also reserved pro-Proposition 187
radio time for the final stretch.

The Field Poll shows that the battleground remains in vote-rich Los Angeles
County, where the measure leads narrowly - 47-45 percent. It is losing 63-31
percent in the Bay Area and winning 64-28 percent in the remainder of Southern
California.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994
Mercury News Staff Writer Ken McLaughlin and Mitchel Benson of the Mercury News
Sacramento Bureau contributed to this report.
See also related story on page 24A of this section.

GRAPHIC: Charts (2);
CHART: CARL NEIBURGER - MERCURY NEWS
Proposition 187 support slips
Field Poll results showing change in level of support, July - October, 1994
941027 FR 24A 1; v. bar chart
CHART: CARL NEIBURGER - MERCURY NEWS
Chart showing degree of support among Democrats and Republicans
941027 FR 24A 2; h. bar chart

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 27, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA WILL DEPORT FELONS WHO ARE ILLEGAL BEFORE TRIAL

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: Miami


Illegal immigrants charged with crimes will now face deportation even before
they go to trial under a pilot program announced today by the state of Florida
and the federal government.

"Deporting criminal aliens is an important part of the strategy to open up space
in our prisons for more dangerous offenders," Gov. Lawton Chiles said.

Chiles, in the midst of a tough re-election battle, made the announcement with
Doris Meissner, commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Florida INS Director Dan Cadman and state prosecutors.

Florida already has begun deporting some illegal immigrants serving prison time
for non-violent crimes. Eligible inmates receive clemency in exchange for
agreeing to be deported and not return.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    October 27, 1994 Thursday STREET EDITION

FLORIDA STEPS UP DEPORTATION PROGRAM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 71 words

DATELINE: Miami


Florida is intensifying its effort to keep illegal immigrants out of its
prisons.

Florida already has begun deporting some illegal immigrants serving prison time
for non-violent crimes. Under a follow-up agreement with the federal government,
it plans to deport illegal immigrants after they are charged instead of bringing
them to trial.

The immigrants receive clemency in exchange for agreeing not to return.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 28, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUFFINGTON: I BROKE THE LAW HE CITES PRESSURE FROM WIFE TO RETAIN ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANT

BYLINE: JEFF GOTTLIEB AND LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1155 words

DATELINE: Santa Barbara


A day after the damaging disclosure that he and his wife hired an illegal
immigrant as a nanny, Republican Senate candidate Michael Huffington admitted he
broke the law but said it was no worse than rolling through a stop sign.

At a news conference Thursday afternoon with his wife, Arianna, by his side,
Huffington said the couple employed the woman from 1989 to 1993. Within a year
of the hiring, they learned she had come to the United States illegally from
Mexico, he said.

Huffington also admitted they failed to pay taxes for the first year the nanny
worked at his Santa Barbara mansion. The Huffingtons pledged to pay back taxes
and penalties. He said it was his wife's decision to hire the woman.

"Who among us has not broken the law? Who among us has not rolled through a stop
sign? Who among us has not gone faster than 55 mph?" Huffington asked. "We're
all human."

Huffington has been attacking his opponent, Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
since midsummer for being soft on illegal immigration. Last week, Huffington
announced his vigorous support of Proposition 187, the controversial ballot
initiative that would deny state services, including schooling and non-emergency
medical care, to illegal immigrants.

In that announcement, Huffington said the measure was necessary because
California politicians had "cut corners, looked the other way and sent the wrong
message -- that breaking the law pays, that only fools go through the proper
immigration channels."

The congressman, who is in a tight race with Feinstein, insisted Thursday there
was no contradiction between his political position and his personal actions. He
said the nanny, Marisela Garcia, had no children and had not used any of the
state services that would have been denied her under the initiative. But
opponents of Proposition 187 lost no time in labeling the Santa Barbara
Republican -- whose campaign themes stress morality and personal responsibility
-- a hypocrite.

"This shows how many politicians, including but not limited to Mr. Huffington,
are cynically manipulating the immigration issue," said Mark Silverman, an
attorney with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. "Huffington
is supporting Proposition 187, which doesn't even offer any meaningful
solutions, and furthermore, he is breaking the law."

Feinstein, who was campaigning in San Francisco on Thursday, said the revelation
showed her opponent was dishonest.

"What Mr. Huffington's done all along is never quite told the truth about me,
about my record," she said. "He would not have told the truth again had he not
been confronted."

Polls indicate close race

In recent polls, Huffington has trailed Feinstein by only a few percentage
points, and most analysts believe the election will be close. Experience has
shown this issue is capable of igniting furious public response.

Two years ago, the Clinton administration was forced to withdraw the nominations
of Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood, candidates for attorney general, when they admitted
they had hired illegal immigrants as domestic workers and had failed to pay
taxes for them.

Mark Baldassare, a political scientist at the University of California, Irvine
who conducts political polls, said the real test would come if the Feinstein
camp turned the scandal into a television attack ad.

"It is an issue that will make voters, who don't know Michael Huffington all
that well, begin to question his sincerity on issues such as illegal
immigration, and that could have an impact on what is a very close race," he
said. "It's kind of very much in line with the way this Senate race is played
out. It's another personal issue."

Fueled by Michael Huffington's personal fortune, the Senate race has become the
most expensive congressional contest in history. On Thursday, Huffington passed
the $25 million mark, most of it spent on television advertising. Feinstein has
spent almost $11 million.

A chronology provided by the Huffington campaign showed that Garcia worked for
the Huffingtons from May 1989 to July 1993, shortly after Huffington went to
Washington. Arianna Huffington said she did not know Garcia was in this country
illegally when she hired her and by the time she learned about it, nanny and
family had already bonded.

Wife takes blame

"I definitely feel responsible," Arianna Huffington said, adding that "Michael
and I had many discussions about this" and that her husband had urged her
"repeatedly to end Marisela's employment."

She called the incident "totally my mistake." But, saying the woman had been
paid $35,000 a year, Arianna Huffington insisted that "this is not a case of
cheap labor. It is a case of a family falling in love with another human being."

Michael Huffington said his wife pressured him into going along.

"I should have put my foot down, ignored the pleas of my wife and my daughter
and demanded that my wife terminate the woman's employment, but I didn't," he
said. "The only phone number my 5-year-old knows by heart is Marisela's number.
She calls her regularly."

By employing the woman, the Huffingtons violated the 1986 Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which requires employers to verify that their employees are here
legally and have permission to work. Fines for a first violation can be as high
as $2,000.

"We're never going to be able to solve the illegal-alien problem until employers
comply with the law," said Jim Mayock, a San Francisco attorney specializing in
immigration law. "Arianna and her husband decided to break the law in order to
further their own family needs."

Huffington at times grew testy at reporters' questions. And he tried to tar
Feinstein with unsubstantiated accusations that she, too, had employed illegal
immigrants.

'Marta and Rita'

"Rumors are abundant in San Francisco that two ladies by the name of Marta and
Rita worked in Mrs. Feinstein's household," he told a roomful of reporters. "We
would hope you would help us."

Feinstein's campaign director, Kam Kuwata, dismissed the accusation, saying
Feinstein had never heard of Marta or Rita.

"Dianne Feinstein never has and never will employ illegal immigrants," he said.
"She has not broken the law. I think Congressman Huffington feels that since he
broke the law, everyone does, and that's not the fact."

As a congressman, Huffington is known as a quiet legislator who rarely comments
on issues under discussion. But transcripts from a Committee on Small Business
hearing this year show the question of good domestic help spurred him to speak
up.

In a report called "Who's minding the baby? Quality and availability problems in
child care for America's children," Huffington said, "I have looked for four
years for someone, as my wife has, who can help take care of the kids while we
are either working or campaigning or whatever else we do."

Four years ago, Garcia was employed by the Huffingtons.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               October 28, 1994 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

PROP. 187 IMPASSE IN FREMONT IMMIGRATION: THE SCHOOL BOARD REJECTS AN
IMPASSIONED PLEA TO OPPOSE THE BALLOT MEASURE, WHICH WOULD DENY PUBLIC SCHOOLING
TO UNDOCUMENTED CHILDREN.

BYLINE: RENEE KOURY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 912 words


Parting ways with educators across California, the Fremont school board has
refused to come out against an initiative that would kick undocumented children
out of public schools.

School board President Christie Vianson brought a resolution to the panel
Wednesday night opposing the controversial Proposition 187 on the state's Nov. 8
ballot, which would deny education and health services to illegal immigrants.

But after fellow trustee Cris Raimundo delivered an impassioned speech saying
the proposed law would discriminate and cost schools millions of dollars, three
other trustees said they could not support a proposed resolution opposing it.
The resolution failed.

"It was an abrogation of their duty as trustees to refuse to take a position on
this," an angry Raimundo said Thursday. "I felt they were like Pontius Pilate,
washing their hands of this important issue."

Trustees Chuck DeWitt, Linda Widmar and Chuck Furman said they would abstain
from voting on the anti-187 resolution because they wanted to keep their vote
private on a statewide policy issue.

The Fremont board may be one of the only local boards in California to refuse to
come out against Proposition 187, though not all boards have taken up the issue.
And in October the state Board of Education declined to take a stand on the
illegal immigrant measure.

DeWitt said Thursday that although he hasn't made up his mind, he is leaning
toward favoring Proposition 187.

"If they're illegal, we need to say something and support the law enforcement
officers," DeWitt said. "If a teacher knows a student in class has a gun that is
illegally there, wouldn't the teacher want to say something? If we have someone
who is illegally here, shouldn't we say something?"

When asked whether he is concerned about the projected loss of revenues to
schools if illegal immigrants are ousted, DeWitt said those concerns compare
with worries 130 years ago about the U.S. economy after slaves were freed.

"Most plantation owners opposed doing away with slavery because they thought it
would ruin them," he said. "But we pulled through that. We could pull through
this too."

Against taking stand

Trustee Linda Widmar declined to reveal which way she leans on Proposition 187.
But she said the school board too often is used as a pulpit for political views.
She said the board shouldn't be asked to take positions on issues that don't
directly affect the school district. Though she actively campaigned against
Proposition 174, the school voucher initiative in 1993, she drew a distinction
between that measure and Proposition 187.

"Proposition 174 would have taken money away from our district and put it into
private schools," she said. "This (Proposition 187) has the potential to affect
the district, but I'm not charged with making decisions based on potential. This
is not real."

Questions impact

She added that a law denying educations to illegal immigrants might not affect
Fremont.

"You're assuming we have illegal immigrants in our district," she said. "I'm
not."

Furman could not be reached Thursday for comment on his vote.

Proposition 187 would require schools to check the papers of California's 5.4
million public school students and report suspected undocumented children to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Scores of school boards -- including San Jose Unified, East Side Union, San
Diego Unified, Oakland Unified and Los Angeles Unified -- have approved
resolutions against the proposition.

Groups against measure

Also opposing it are the California Teachers Association, the California State
PTA, the California School Boards Association, the Alameda County Board of
Education, the Santa Clara County Board of Education and the Association of
California School Administrators.

Rick Oltman, chairman of the statewide Yes on 187-Save Our State campaign, said
Fremont Unified is the only local district he's heard of that has refused to
come out against the measure.

"I think it shows courage," he said.

But John Gunn, president of the Fremont Unified District Teachers Association,
criticized the board for not taking a stand.

'Shame on you'

At Wednesday's meeting, he said, DeWitt and Widmar declined to comment about
Proposition 187 except to say they wanted to keep their prospective vote
private. "I said, 'Shame on you for not being at least willing to speak on an
issue that is so important to public education,' " Gunn recalled. "Their failure
to act on this resolution was very unfortunate. If this passes, teachers will be
forced to decide who is or is not a legal immigrant. It will create an
unhealthy, illiterate street population."

Gunn said it seemed significant that the three trustees who abstained are white.
Vianson is black, and Raimundo is a first-generation immigrant from the
Philippines. Raimundo said he was saddened that his son, a student in the
district, already is worried about having proper documents to enroll in school.
'Sends bad message'

"Our action sends a real bad message to legal immigrants, like my son," he said.
"My son asked me if his papers are OK. It's sad, because we raised him with no
sensitivity about color. Now 187 will force them to be sensitive about it."

Vianson said if Proposition 187 passes, she will propose a resolution refusing
to comply with it. "It forces us to treat some students differently," she said.
"It's bad for the children of California, which is bad for all of us."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 28, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

HUFFINGTON DOWNPLAYS NANNY ISSUE COMPARES IT TO RUNNING A STOP SIGN

BYLINE: JEFF GOTTLIEB AND LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1007 words

DATELINE: Santa Barbara


A day after the damaging disclosure that he and his wife hired an illegal
immigrant as a nanny, Republican Senate candidate Michael Huffington admitted he
broke the law but said it was no worse than rolling through a stop sign.

At a news conference Thursday afternoon with his wife, Arianna, by his side,
Huffington said the couple employed the woman from 1989 to 1993. Within a year
of the hiring, they learned she had come to the United States illegally from
Mexico, he said.

Huffington also admitted they failed to pay taxes for the first year the nanny
worked at his Santa Barbara mansion. The Huffingtons pledged to pay back taxes
and penalties. He said it was his wife's decision to hire the woman.

"Who among us has not broken the law? Who among us has not rolled through a stop
sign? Who among us has not gone faster than 55 mph?" Huffington asked. "We're
all human."

Huffington has been attacking his opponent, Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
since midsummer for being soft on illegal immigration. Last week, Huffington
announced his vigorous support of Proposition 187, the controversial ballot
initiative that would deny state services, including schooling and non-emergency
medical care, to illegal immigrants.

In that announcement, Huffington said the measure was necessary because
California politicians had "cut corners, looked the other way and sent the wrong
message - that breaking the law pays, that only fools go through the proper
immigration channels."

The congressman, who is in a tight race with Feinstein, insisted Thursday there
was no contradiction between his political position and his personal actions. He
said the nanny, Marisela Garcia, had no children and had not used any of the
state services that would have been denied her under the initiative. But
opponents of Proposition 187 lost no time in labeling the Santa Barbara
Republican - whose campaign themes stress morality and personal responsibility -
a hypocrite.

"This shows how many politicians, including but not limited to Mr. Huffington,
are cynically manipulating the immigration issue," said Mark Silverman, an
attorney with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. "Huffington
is supporting Proposition 187, which doesn't even offer any meaningful
solutions, and furthermore, he is breaking the law."

Feinstein, who was campaigning in San Francisco on Thursday, said the revelation
showed her opponent was dishonest.

"What Mr. Huffington's done all along is never quite told the truth about me,
about my record," she said. "He would not have told the truth again had he not
been confronted."

In recent polls, Huffington has trailed Feinstein by only a few percentage
points, and most analysts believe the election will be close. Experience has
shown this issue is capable of igniting furious public response.

Two years ago, the Clinton administration was forced to withdraw the nominations
of Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood, candidates for attorney general, when they admitted
they had hired illegal immigrants as domestic workers and had failed to pay
taxes for them.

Fueled by Michael Huffington's personal fortune, the Senate race has become the
most expensive congressional contest in history. On Thursday, Huffington passed
the $25 million mark, most of it spent on television advertising. Feinstein has
spent almost $11 million.

A chronology provided by the Huffington campaign showed that Garcia worked for
the Huffingtons from May 1989 to July 1993, shortly after Huffington went to
Washington. Arianna Huffington said she did not know Garcia was in this country
illegally when she hired her and by the time she learned about it, nanny and
family had already bonded.

"I definitely feel responsible," Arianna Huffington said, adding that "Michael
and I had many discussions about this" and that her husband had urged her
"repeatedly to end Marisela's employment."

She called the incident "totally my mistake." But, saying the woman had been
paid $35,000 a year, Arianna Huffington insisted that "this is not a case of
cheap labor. It is a case of a family falling in love with another human being."

Michael Huffington said his wife pressured him into going along.

"I should have put my foot down, ignored the pleas of my wife and my daughter
and demanded that my wife terminate the woman's employment, but I didn't," he
said. "The only phone number my 5-year-old knows by heart is Marisela's number.
She calls her regularly."

By employing the woman, the Huffingtons violated the 1986 Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which requires employers to verify that their employees are here
legally and have permission to work. Fines for a first violation can be as high
as $2,000.

Huffington at times grew testy at reporters' questions. And he tried to tar
Feinstein with unsubstantiated accusations that she, too, had employed illegal
immigrants.

"Rumors are abundant in San Francisco that two ladies by the name of Marta and
Rita worked in Mrs. Feinstein's household," he told a roomful of reporters. "We
would hope you would help us."

Feinstein's campaign director, Kam Kuwata, dismissed the accusation, saying
Feinstein had never heard of Marta or Rita.

"Dianne Feinstein never has and never will employ illegal immigrants," he said.
"She has not broken the law. I think Congressman Huffington feels that since he
broke the law, everyone does, and that's not the fact."

As a congressman, Huffington is known as a quiet legislator who rarely comments
on issues under discussion. But transcripts from a Committee on Small Business
hearing this year show the question of good domestic help spurred him to speak
up.

In a report called "Who's minding the baby? Quality and availability problems in
child care for America's children," Huffington said, "I have looked for four
years for someone, as my wife has, who can help take care of the kids while we
are either working or campaigning or whatever else we do."

Four years ago, Garcia was employed by the Huffingtons.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Michael Huffington speaks Thursday night in Los Angeles as his daughter
Christina, wife Arianna, and Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas look on.
941028 FR 1A PF 3; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 29, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUFFINGTON FLEW NANNY TO D.C.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: Santa Barbara


Republican Senate candidate Michael Huffington said Friday that he flew his
illegal immigrant nanny to Washington, D.C., at the same time he co-sponsored a
bill in the House that would have made the act illegal.

During an interview on the TV station KEYT in Santa Barbara, Huffington said the
legislation he co-sponsored did not pass, and so, he should not be penalized.

The legislation proposed by Huffington, R-Santa Barbara, would have made it
illegal to transport illegal immigrants across state lines for purposes of
employment, the TV station reported.

Huffington, who has endorsed Proposition 187, which would deny public services
and education to illegal immigrants, admitted this week that he and his wife
broke the law when they hired an illegal immigrant as a nanny.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 30, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IT WASN'T JUST THE HUFFINGTON NANNY, FORMER EMPLOYEES TELL NEWSPAPER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 426 words


Former employees of GOP Senate candidate Michael Huffington claim he had more
than one illegal immigrant working for him, the Santa Barbara News-Press
reported Saturday.

Employees and family friends quoted in the newspaper disputed Huffington's claim
that he had hired only one illegal immigrant, a Mexican nanny to help take care
of his two children.

Huffington said Thursday that Marisela Garcia was hired in 1989 and stopped
working for him in July 1993, six months after Huffington was elected to
Congress. But the newspaper reported that Garcia was working for the Huffington
family as recently as five months ago.

A former bookkeeper for the Huffingtons told the News-Press that she paid the
nanny's undocumented husband, Fermin Garcia, for gardening and other work
performed on the estate between April and August 1990.

Another illegal immigrant told the newspaper she was paid $8 an hour to care for
the Huffington's youngest daughter for several days in 1992. Kevin de Leon,
director of One-Stop Immigration in Santa Barbara, said he saw the woman's
paycheck.

Messages left at Huffington's campaign office were not immediately returned
Saturday.

Huffington's disclosure about the nanny came a week after he endorsed
Proposition 187, a ballot initiative that would deny public education and non-
emergency medical care to illegal immigrants. His Democratic opponent, Sen.
Dianne Feinstein, who says the measure is unenforceable, called Huffington a
hypocrite.

Huffington on Friday admitted flying Garcia to Washington, D.C., to be with one
of his daughters at the same time he was co-sponsoring legislation forbidding
such transportation across state lines.

Huffington acknowledged the contradiction while talking to reporters in Santa
Barbara, his home. But he said he was "not at all" bothered by it because the
bill never became law.

Saturday, with the Feinstein campaign hammering Huffington's immigration miscues
with a major new advertising effort, Huffington's wife, Arianna, offered still
another perspective on the incident.

"The nanny really only flew out to Washington with us from Santa Barbara and
then right back to accompany a child," she said. "I know that because I run the
house staff. I hire, and I pay. Michael has said he accepts responsibility for
all this, but he really has no legal responsibility. I'm the one who runs the
staff. I'm the one who should be castigated."

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun an inquiry into the
exact nature of the nanny's employment.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 31, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUFFINGTON: TEACH IMMIGRANTS AT HOME SENATE CANDIDATE STANDS BY PROP. 187

BYLINE: JEFF GOTTLIEB, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 487 words


Republican Senate candidate Michael Huffington said Sunday that illegal
immigrant children who will be thrown out of public schools if Proposition 187
passes should go to private schools or be taught at home.

Appearing on "This Week with David Brinkley," Huffington denied it was
hypocritical for him to support the initiative, even though he admitted he broke
the law when he employed an illegal immigrant to care for his children.

While Huffington was on TV, Los Angeles' Republican Mayor Richard Riordan
endorsed Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein. He joins other members of his party
who have endorsed her, including former baseball Commissioner Peter Ueberroth,
actor Clint Eastwood and Los Angeles County Sheriff Sherman Block.

Riordan cited Feinstein's work in passing the assault weapons ban and helping
the city get $8.6 billion in federal aid after the January earthquake.

Huffington, meanwhile, continued to blame the nanny problem that has bedeviled
his campaign on his wife, who is one of his closest advisers.

"My wife hired her, my wife paid for her, and I asked my wife to let her go. I
don't control my wife. . . . I disagreed with my wife, but I'm taking
responsibility for my wife's actions," he said.

When Huffington suggested his education plan, even conservative newspaper
columnist George Will appeared surprised on the show. He asked, "Is it realistic
to expect the parents of these children, who are themselves probably working at
at least one job, scraping to make ends meet, to invest in private education or
to stay home and teach their children?"

Huffington answered: "Well, hopefully, some have grandparents, some have aunts
or uncles, some have people that are retired who can help teach the kids."

Many supporters of Proposition 187 already have voiced positions similar to
Huffington's. The initiative would deny a public education and most state
services to illegal immigrants.

Immigration and anti-187 activists reacted with anger at Huffington's answer.
"Many undocumented workers are paid less than minimum wage. To suggest they stay
home and teach kids in their spare time is ridiculous," said Bobbi Murray,
spokeswoman for the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.

The Republican Senate candidate repeated assertions that there are rumors of
Dianne Feinstein employing illegal immigrants although neither he nor his
campaign has provided evidence.

Kam Kuwata, Feinstein's campaign manager has emphatically denied that Feinstein
ever has employed illegal immigrants. "Huffington began the campaign lying, and
he's going to end the campaign lying," he said Sunday.

Huffington, who will spend the early part of the week in the state's agriculture
heartland, told the TV panel that he supports scaling back crop subsidies.

However, Huffington said last week at a Santa Clara County Farm Bureau luncheon
that he supported cheap water.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 1, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TEACHERS WON'T BE CHARGED UNDER 187, LUNGREN SAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 187 words


Even if Proposition 187 passes, teachers will not be prosecuted for refusing to
report the names of students they believe are illegal immigrants, the state
attorney general said Monday. Dan Lungren's announcement contradicted a legal
opinion issued this month by the state Department of Education, which said
teachers could face charges for failing to report. Lungren said at a news
conference that his office is preparing guidelines for local law enforcement
agencies, district attorneys and others who would have new responsibilities
under the measure. Enforcement of many of the initiative's provisions would
begin immediately, he said. Meanwhile, the Los Angeles Unified School District
promised parents they won't be reported to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The district fears some parents are keeping their children home because
of Proposition 187. "The Los Angeles public schools do not report -- we repeat,
we do not report -- the identity of any students to the INS or to any other
government agency. Federal law prohibits this," read a letter that will be sent
to all parents this week.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CAMPAIGN NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 1, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUFFINGTONS TO PAY PENALTIES, TAXES FOR NANNY'S FIRST YEAR

BYLINE: JEFF GOTTLIEB, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 439 words


Arianna Huffington, wife of Republican Senate candidate Michael Huffington,
today will pay $10,405.48 in federal and state taxes, penalties and interest
that the couple estimate they owe for the first year they employed an illegal
immigrant, her bookkeeper said.

The Huffingtons said the illegal immigrant worked for them from 1989 through
1993 and they paid the taxes for the last three years.

In addition, the Huffingtons' attorney has approached the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service to determine how much of a fine they will owe for
employing the woman, campaign spokeswoman Jennifer Grossman said Monday. Fines
for a first-time violator can go as high as $2,000.

The Huffingtons admitted Thursday that they broke the law when they hired the
woman, Marisela Garcia, to work as a nanny, but the Senate hopeful likened it to
rolling through a stop sign. Huffington on Friday admitted flying the nanny to
Washington, D.C., to be with one of his daughters at the same time he was
co-sponsoring legislation forbidding such transportation across state lines.

Michael Huffington has blamed his wife for Garcia's continued employment. He
said that when he found out the woman was in the country illegally, he told
Arianna Huffington to fire her. His wife said she didn't because her daughters
had become attached to the woman.

The issue has dominated the close Senate race since Garcia's status was
discovered late last week. It has taken on added weight because Huffington has
vigorously endorsed Proposition 187, which would deny a public education and
most state services to illegal immigrants.

The latest poll showed incumbent Sen. Dianne Feinstein ahead by six percentage
points as the most expensive Senate campaign in U.S. history goes into its final
week.

The Huffington campaign provided a breakdown of the money it says the couple
owe. It showed that the interest and penalties owed to the state still need to
be computed by the Employment Development Department.

Kathy Lundquist, Arianna Huffington's bookkeeper, said the money would be
deposited in a bank today and immediately be sent to the Internal Revenue
Service and Franchise Tax Board.

In another development, Huffington's campaign faxed a statement by Garcia saying
she received her last check from the couple Aug. 31, 1993. The Santa Barbara
News Press reported over the weekend that several employees and a family friend
said Garcia had worked for the Huffingtons as recently as five months ago.

In addition, Garcia's husband signed a notarized statement that he had never
worked for the couple, as had been reported.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 1, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE HAPPY HYPOCRITE HUFFINGTON BLITHELY IGNORES THE CONTRADICTIONS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 318 words


MICHAEL Huffington, the candidate for U.S. Senate who has been ostentatiously
reading "The Book of Virtues," seems not to have absorbed the lesson about
public preaching matching private practice.

The public Huffington has been pummeling incumbent Sen. Dianne Feinstein for
allegedly putting out the welcome mat for illegal immigrants. The private
Huffington hired one to care for his children.

After first denying he knew anything about employing illegal immigrants,
Huffington switched his story to say that he was unable to persuade his wife to
change her mind about employing the woman.

Then he claimed that Feinstein also employed illegal immigrants, although he had
no evidence at all to substantiate it.

On television Sunday, Huffington said he saw no hypocrisy in his support of
Proposition 187, intended to encourage illegal immigrants to leave California,
and his employment of one in violation of federal law.

Perhaps this was Huffington's attempt at humor.

The question about Huffington from the beginning of his campaign has been
whether he stood for much besides a belief that "U.S. Senator" in front of one's
name sure adds cachet to a business card.

One idea he has been emphasizing is replacing the welfare state with private
charity. He has been less clear about what the system would look like once
instituted.

Huffington demonstrated the depth of his familiarity with the lives of poor
people when he proposed Sunday that illegal immigrant children who are driven
from public schools by Proposition 187 could attend private schools or be
home-schooled.

Perhaps this was another attempt at humor.

Huffington's campaign has consisted primarily of spending tens of millions of
dollars on television ads to promote himself as a refreshing alternative to
those hypocritical politicians who have lost touch with the lives of ordinary
Americans.

Now that's funny.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  November 4, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

INS REVEALS MISTAKEN ID ON FEINSTEIN HOUSEKEEPER WRONG WORKER'S HISTORY CHECKED

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN AND JEFF GOTTLIEB,, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


California's Senate race, already in turmoil over the issue of illegal
immigration, was thrown into even greater confusion Thursday by a case of
mistaken identity.

A report in the Free Press, the newspaper published by striking Chronicle and
Examiner workers, said Sen. Dianne Feinstein apparently employed a Guatemalan
housekeeper who was in the U.S. illegally.

The Free Press later updated the story when the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service indicated it had researched the wrong worker with the
same name.

The woman worked for Feinstein for two years beginning in 1980 when there was no
law against employing undocumented workers and employers were not required to
check workers' status. Despite the lack of such a law, Feinstein says she did
check.

But later Thursday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said there may
have been a mistake.

The woman mentioned in the newspaper story, Annabel Paiz, apparently was not the
same person who had worked for Feinstein for two years, said Ron Rogers, an
agency representative. The Feinstein housekeeper, he added, was Annabel Paiz
Realegend.

When Feinstein had a Guatemalan housekeeper, Rogers continued, Annabel Paiz was
not eligible to work because she held only a tourist visa. But in any event, he
said, she was not working during that period for Feinstein.

And what of Annabel Paiz Realegend and her status during the period in question?

"We were asked by the paper to give the status of one Annabel Paiz, which we are
allowed by law to do, and that's what we did. Subsequently, we got phone calls
from other papers saying that the person who actually worked for the senator was
Annabel Paiz Realegend."

Before the INS issued its clarification, the allegation against Feinstein
produced some of the most fiery exchanges in the volatile campaign between her
and her Republican challenger, Rep. Michael Huffington.

Huffington, a week earlier, admitted that he had broken the law by employing an
illegal immigrant as a nanny for four years. At that time, Huffington charged
that Feinstein had done the same thing -- which she adamantly denied.

In an angry appearance in Los Angeles on Thursday, Huffington called Feinstein
"a liar" and "a hypocrite."

"She has purposefully and blatantly attempted to mislead (reporters) and the
people of this great state," he continued. "She is unworthy to serve in the U.S.
Senate."

By day's end the Huffington campaign was trying to capitalize on the disclosure
with a new ad that called Feinstein a liar.

Feinstein dismissed the charges as "sheer nonsense."

"I have never hired anyone that was undocumented or here without work
authority," she said. "And I stand by that statement."

When reporters pressed him that Feinstein may not have broken the law as he did,
and that she does not support Proposition 187, Huffington said it didn't matter.

Before the INS revealed its mistake, Feinstein said Thursday that she had seen
work papers for the housekeeper. While there was no law then against employing
undocumented workers and employers were not required to check their employees'
immigration status, there was a requirement to pay Social Security taxes.
Feinstein's campaign manager Kam Kuwata said she did.

"She had work authority and I saw that and I hired her for two years and that
was the extent of it," Feinstein said. "So I have done nothing that was
illegal."

She tried to turn the spotlight back onto Huffington, noting that he has
admitted to knowingly employing an illegal immigrant even though he supports
Proposition 187, which would bar state services to illegal immigrants.

"I think it's a totally different issue with Michael Huffington. He supports 187
and has been hypocritical," Feinstein said at a Santa Monica news conference.

At its press event Thursday, the Huffington campaign produced a Southern
California immigration lawyer who said he attended a conference once at which a
top Labor Department official said Feinstein was seeking a work permit for her
maid.

Feinstein denied seeking help from the Labor Department.

Kuwata, Feinstein's campaign director, said he was gathering records on the
housekeeper's case but had not released them because they were incomplete. He
said the woman did have a Social Security number.

The woman worked for Feinstein from 1980 to 1982, well before the Immigration
and Control Act of 1986. At that time, it was easy for illegal immigrants to
obtain Social Security numbers.

"It was not unusual in the early 1980s to fly in on a tourist visa, go down to
the Social Security office and two weeks later get a Social Security card," said
Jim Mayock, a San Francisco immigration lawyer.

Feinstein has not said what type of proof the woman offered to show that she was
legally entitled to work in this country. But she said the woman worked for the
Guatemalan Consulate in Los Angeles before she worked as Feinstein's maid.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Same photos ran in Morning Final edition story with IMMIGRANT QUESTION
ENVELOPS FEINSTEIN

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 5, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEINSTEIN HOUSEKEEPER WAS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT, INS SAYS

BYLINE: JEFF GOTTLIEB AND BARRY WITT, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 764 words


After two days of did-she-or-didn't-she, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service confirmed late Friday that Dianne Feinstein in the early 1980s employed
a Guatemalan housekeeper who was in the country illegally.

Although the housekeeper, Annabella Realegeno, came to the country legally in
1979 to work for the Guatemalan consulate in San Francisco, her work permit was
limited to that job and expired during the time she worked for Feinstein,
according to INS records.

So, as the most expensive U.S. Senate campaign in history goes into its final
weekend, the main issue is not the economy or defense spending, but the fact
that both candidates employed illegal immigrants.

When Republican challenger Michael Huffington admitted last week that he had
hired an illegal immigrant, Democratic incumbent Feinstein vehemently denied she
had done the same. But Huffington continued to insist that his opponent had
hired undocumented workers.

"We think that just about everything we've said has been conclusively proven,"
said Ken Khachigian, Huffington campaign adviser.

The campaign had already gambled that the information was right, putting TV
commercials on the air Thursday evening calling Feinstein a liar.

But Feinstein said Friday in Fresno that the housekeeper provided documents that
showed she could work legally. "I had no requirement on me to ask for
documentation," Feinstein said. "I did ask for documentation."

Feinstein's campaign also provided W-2 forms that showed the senator paid the
appropriate taxes for her housekeeper in 1980 and 1981. Feinstein campaign
director Kam Kuwata said that employers were only required to keep the documents
for four years and the senator could not find the documents for 1982. The 1980
W-2 was handwritten. Kuwata said he did not know why it did not list the
housekeeper's Social Security number.

If she knowingly hired an illegal immigrant, Feinstein would have violated a
section of the state Labor Code, said Matt Ross, a spokesman for the state
Attorney General's office. She could have been fined $200 to $500 for each
offense.

It was not against federal law until 1986 to hire an illegal immigrant.

Huffington has admitted he broke the law when he and his wife employed a Mexican
woman from 1989 to 1993 to take care of their two daughters. Huffington said
that when he found out the woman was in the country illegally, he told his wife
to fire her. She didn't.

Taxes not paid

The Huffingtons did not pay the nanny's taxes for the first 13 months she worked
for them. But this week they announced they would pay more than $10,000 in back
taxes, penalties and interest.

Huffington has endorsed Proposition 187, which would prohibit illegal immigrants
from using state services such as education and welfare. Feinstein opposes it.

The challenger's camp insisted that Feinstein knew she had hired an illegal
immigrant.

Feinstein tried to bring out the differences in the two situations. "I broke no
law," she said. "He has."

The question of whether Feinstein had hired an undocumented worker was mired in
confusion after a news story Thursday said the housekeeper was an illegal
immigrant.

But the INS said late Thursday that the woman identified in the story was not
the woman who had worked for Feinstein.

Immigration status checks were complicated because the housekeeper used two
names, said Ron Rogers, an INS spokesman in Laguna Niguel. She was Annabella
Legrand de Paiz when she worked for Feinstein. She later apparently married and
began using the name Annabella del Rosario Legrand Cabrera Realegeno, Rogers
said.

Charges continue

The Huffington campaign continued to charge Friday that the INS had stonewalled
its efforts to investigate the housekeeper.

Rogers denied the charge.

"We wanted to give out accurate information because we obviously knew the
intent," he said.

The INS chronology is still incomplete, but it does show that Realegeno worked
for Feinstein illegally.

Realegeno arrived in San Francisco in November 1979 to work for the Guatemalan
consulate in the city, INS records show. She was allowed to stay in the country
for one year. She was not to be given any extensions, the INS said.

But she worked for Feinstein, then San Francisco's mayor, from March 1980
through November 1982, said Kam Kuwata, the senator's campaign director.

Realegeno filed to become a legal resident under federal amnesty in May 1988,
and received a green card, making her a permanent legal resident, in June 1993
after she married a permanent resident.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994
Mercury News Staff Writer Laura Kurtzman contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Feinstein
941105 FR 26A 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 5, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON FLIES IN TO RALLY FOR BROWN, FEINSTEIN

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


President Clinton, seeking to boost the fortunes of Treasurer Kathleen Brown and
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, called on Democrats Friday to reject Republican
attempts to convert popular anger and cynicism into low voter turnout in
Tuesday's election.

Before about 1,000 enthusiastic supporters and flanked by the entire Democratic
slate of candidates, Clinton delivered a rousing partisan attack on Gov. Pete
Wilson and Rep. Michael Huffington, and reminded a live Los Angeles basin TV
audience of all he has done for California.

"The governor's office is not a place for blamers. It is a place for builders,"
he said. "I need a partner there."

He praised and then held up for the TV cameras Brown's 62-page booklet. Brown,
he said, "represents the future, not the past."

Clinton repeated his charge that Wilson, as a senator, made the problem of
illegal immigration worse by voting for a guest worker program that resulted in
an increase in undocumented immigrants. Nor did Wilson "raise a peep" about
illegal immigration when Republican George Bush was in the White House, Clinton
said.

Dan Schnur, Wilson's spokesman, responded sharply, "So Bill Clinton has flown
across the country to join up with Kathleen Brown and all the other apologists
for illegal immigration."

Clinton's praise of Feinstein was virtually unbounded, saying that in his
lifetime no United States senator has ever accomplished more in a first term. He
credited her with a ban on assault weapons, a zero-tolerance policy on guns in
schools and the California desert bill.

"How could we not give her a six-year renewal?" he asked. "It is unbelievable
that anybody with her record should ever have a close race."

In reference to Huffington's incessant criticism of government activism, Clinton
called the Santa Barbara congressman "the first person ever to seek the United
States Senate to run not only against Washington -- he's now running against
George Washington."

Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, Dwight Eisenhower's highway system
and Richard Nixon's Environmental Protection Agency were just a few federal
accomplishments by Republicans, he said.

The crowd, warmed up by gospel singers and fiery rhetoric, chanted "Six More
Years" and "No RePete" at every opportunity. And they hooted and booed every
time Proposition 187 was mentioned.

The real purpose of Friday's rally was to drive up enthusiasm among Democratic
base voters, whom Brown has been unable to capture and whom Huffington still
hopes to lure.

"Folks," Clinton said, "I have done everything I know how to do to be a good
partner to the people of California." He pointed to increased immigration
funding, improved economic news, defense conversion, high-tech policies and
more. "I have tried to do things that no president has ever done. The farmers in
the valley are selling California rice to Japan for the first time."

Arguing for more, not fewer Democratic allies, Clinton told the audience:

"This whole thing comes down to the state of mind of the people of California on
Election Day, because if people are cynical and angry they will vote against
their own interest."

The Republicans, he charged, "want you to lash out or they want you to give up
or they want you to stay home."

The antidote, he said, is simple: vote.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Clinton is joined by Julia Clayton of McDonnell Douglas, left, and
Sen. Dianne Feinstein at a ceremony Friday in Los Alamitos.
941105 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 6, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPORATION 187: CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 568 words


Proponents of Proposition 187 say it will make California far less hospitable to
illegal immigrants and send Washington a clear signal that voters want something
done about the problem. Opponents say the initiative won't deter illegal
immigration significantly, presents a potential health hazard to all
Californians and will lead to discrimination against Hispanics and other
minorities.

.............................................

The proponents call it "Save Our State." Opponents have dubbed it "Sink Our
State."

Whatever you call it, Proposition 187 has become the hottest ballot proposition
in California since voters stunned the nation in 1978 by slashing property taxes
with Proposition 13.

SOS would bar illegal immigrants from receiving a public education and social
services, and publicly funded health care would be available only in
emergencies. The measure would also require law enforcement agencies, schools
and medical clinics to report people they suspect are in the country illegally.
"Illegal immigration is an issue whose time has come," said Robert Kiley, a
Yorba Linda political consultant who helped get the initiative off the ground.
"Everyone has been ignoring this problem. The state Legislature has been
ignoring it. People are saying enough is enough."

The Proposition 13 analogy has not been lost on Kiley and other SOS backers, who
contend they are victims of an "establishment" campaign aimed at squashing a
popular initiative. But SOS critics say the proponents have themselves to blame
because they drafted an unconstitutional and mean-spirited measure that would
result in endless litigation.

Health officials across the state say SOS will result in outbreaks of
communicable diseases because illegal immigrants won't be inoculated against
diseases. The denial of medical care to pregnant women will result in the births
of hundreds of premature, sickly babies, the officials say.

SOS boosters say that welfare, medical and educational benefits are the
"magnets" that pull people across the border. Opponents say jobs are the real
magnets and that the initiative creates a "police state mentality" while doing
little to stop illegal immigration.

By far, 187's most controversial provision is aimed at kicking some 300,000
illegal immigrant children out of public schools. SOS opponents argue that
children should not have to pay for the sins of their parents -- and that
unleashing thousands of kids onto California streets will be particularly
disastrous to California's Hispanic communities.

"It'll mean more drugs, more graffiti, more hopelessness," said Mike Garcia,
president of Service Employees International Union Local 1877 in San Jose.

Whether Proposition 187 is approved or not, the school provision may prove
irrelevant, since the Supreme Court ruled in 1982 in a Texas case that school
districts had to educate illegal immigrants. Proponents are hoping that
Proposition 187 will make the court reconsider.

The state's non-partisan Legislative Analyst's Office estimates the initiative
would save state and local governments about $200 million annually, in addition
to $1.2 billion in education costs. But the office says that would be offset by
more than $100 million in administrative costs and the possible loss of $15
billion in federal funds because the initiative violates federal laws and court
decisions.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Voter's Guide

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Several hundred anti-Proposition 187 protesters march along Senter Road in San
Jose
941106 SS 16

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 6, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REALITY CHECK: JUDGING CAMPAIGN ADS

BYLINE: Compiled by Mercury News staff writers Scott Thurm, Ed Pope, and Barry
Witt.

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 502 words


An analysis of campaign commercials.

These claims are made in radio and television ads now being aired in the Bay
Area.

Kathleen Brown

Democratic candidate for governor

(box)What's the claim? In a television ad, Brown says her opponent, Pete Wilson,
"wrote the law that let 1.3 million illegals across the border."

(box)Is it true? The charge is not true. Although Wilson, then a U.S. senator,
played a major role in and voted for the 1986 immigration law, he did not write
the agricultural-worker provision. That portion of the law allowed 1.3 million
foreigners who could show that they worked on U.S. farms to win legal U.S.
residency. The provision was written by three Democratic congressmen.

Kathleen Brown

Democratic candidate for governor

(box)What's the claim? In a television ad, Brown says, "Californians will all
carry mandatory I.D. cards" under a "scary plan" proposed by her opponent, Pete
Wilson. The ad also says Wilson wants "teachers to turn in students" who might
be illegal immigrants.

(box)Is it true? The charges are not true. Although Wilson last month responded
affirmatively to a newspaper interviewer's question on whether Californians
should have to carry state I.D. cards, he later said he misunderstood the
question and insists he does not want all state residents to carry cards. In
addition, Proposition 187, to which the Brown ad refers, would require school
administrators -- not teachers -- to report suspected illegal immigrants.

Chuck Quackenbush

Republican candidate for insurance commissioner

(box)What's the claim? In a television ad, Quackenbush says his opponent, Art
Torres, "has taken over $200,000 from insurance industry sources."

(box)Is it true? The claim is misleading. Torres has refused contributions from
insurance companies, agents or brokers -- all of whom are regulated by the
insurance commissioner. He has accepted donations from lawyers who represent
insurers, but also from lawyers who represent consumers. In addition, he has
accepted a $7,500 contribution from a public insurance adjuster, who assists
insurance consumers with claims. For his part, Quackenbush has accepted more
than $2 million in contributions and loans from insurance companies, agents and
brokers.

Michael Huffington

Republican candidate for U.S. Senate

(box)What's the claim? In a television ad, Huffington quotes his opponent as
saying, "I have never hired anyone who was illegal or undocumented." The ad goes
on to say that "the Associated Press now proves Feinstein lied -- flat out
lied."

(box)Is it true? It is not true that the Associated Press proved that Feinstein
lied. However, Feinstein's claim -- accurately quoted in the ad -- also is
untrue. INS officials confirmed Friday that a Guatemalan woman employed by
Feinstein as a housekeeper in the early 1980s was not legally in the United
States. Feinstein maintains she was unaware the woman was not legally in the
country and believed otherwise when she made that statement.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TV ad about Feinstein
941106 LO 4B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 7, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CAMPAIGNING DOWN TO THE WIRE

BYLINE: MITCHEL BENSON, SCOTT THURM AND LAURA KURTZMAN,, Mercury News Staff
Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 860 words


The white-hot issue of illegal immigration continued to dominate the state's top
races for governor and U.S. Senate Sunday as the four candidates stoked their
messages on that pivotal question on the weekend before Election Day.

Republican Gov. Pete Wilson and his Democratic challenger, Treasurer Kathleen
Brown, stuck largely to their feud over public policy -- Proposition 187. But
the ill-tempered exchange between Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein and her
Republican challenger, Rep. Michael Huffington, continued to be of a much more
personal nature -- the hiring of foreign housekeepers and nannies.

Brown, at rallies with supporters in San Diego and Sacramento and at a unity
gathering in West Los Angeles with other Democratic candidates and office
holders, kept honing her closing-days attacks on Wilson and on what she says is
the racist message of Proposition 187.

"It gives permission for people to hate," Brown told a rally at a Democratic
campaign headquarters in San Diego. "It gives permission for people to bully, to
blame and to bash."

The proposition, on Tuesday's ballot, would bar illegal immigrants from most
taxpayer-supported services such as public schooling, non-emergency health care
and social services.

"What we see with Pete Wilson and his Proposition 187," Brown said later, "is a
classic case of a politician with no vision, no plan, no agenda and no record,
who turns to (blame) immigrants, who turns to those least able to defend
themselves and probably thinks they won't vote."

Wilson, meanwhile, continued to offer his recently transformed stump speech
that's little more than an appeal for passage of the measure.

At a veterans' rally in Riverside Sunday morning, Wilson accused Brown and
Proposition 187 opponents of trying to "pit Californian against Californian" by
distorting the initiative to "intimidate and frighten legal immigrants."

Even as he declines to detail how Proposition 187 would be implemented, Wilson
continually portrays the ballot measure as a crucial symbol to the federal
government. There's nothing in Proposition 187 about additional funding, but
Wilson thinks its approval might persuade Washington to assume more of the costs
for illegals, which the governor pegs at $3 billion a year.

Brown and other opponents point to non-partisan analyses that say the state
actually could lose $15 billion in federal funding because of what they say is
the proposal's discriminatory and unconstitutional nature.

Sunday marked the first time that Wilson and Huffington campaigned together.
They appeared at Republican rallies in the Los Angeles suburb of Monrovia and
later at the Orange County fairgrounds.

"Let's run up the score," an obviously confident and buoyant Wilson told GOP
partisans at an anti-crime rally in Monrovia.

In contrast, Huffington repeatedly described himself as the underdog in his
campaign against Feinstein and said his own polls show him trailing two days
before the election.

In some of his harshest rhetoric of the campaign, Huffington repeatedly accused
Feinstein of lying about a Guatemalan housekeeper she employed in the early
1980s who was working illegally. Huffington also accused Feinstein and Clinton
administration officials of a "cover-up" to block the release of immigration
documents about the housekeeper, Annabella Realegeno.

"The point is Mrs. Feinstein lied because she said she didn't know she
(Realegeno) was an illegal immigrant," Huffington said after the Monrovia rally.

But Feinstein, appearing confident she had put the scandal behind her, all but
ignored her opponent Sunday and confirmed her strong stand against Proposition
187.

As she has throughout this campaign, Feinstein pitched the virtues of
incumbency. Positioning herself as an experienced legislator, she cited her
various committee posts and the legislation she helped pass and said unabashedly
that politics "has been my life."

"I have never heard my opponent say 'I care deeply about the people of
California,' " she said. "I'm here to say I care and I care deeply. This has
been my life."

Feinstein has sought to portray herself as someone who is so concerned with the
public good that she is above partisan politics. Whenever possible, she has been
introduced at events by Republicans. On Sunday, although the event was at a
union hall, she was introduced by Pasadena Vice Mayor Bill Paparian, who noted
that Feinstein recently won the endorsement of the Armenian National Committee,
which usually supports Republicans.

Most of Sunday's campaign events were designed for the candidates to solidify
their support and to capture as many precious free minutes as possible on the
evening news.

But at Republican and Democratic events alike, the message was clear: The only
way to win Tuesday's elections is for the die-hards to persuade their undecided
friends and neighbors to get out to the polls and vote.

"We are the party of the suicide group, because we kill ourselves," Democrat
Shirley Weber, a school board member in San Diego, told Brown's supporters in a
warm-up speech. "We kill ourselves because we don't go to the polls."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   November 9, 1994 Wednesday STREET EDITION

PROP. 187 WINS VOTERS SAY 'NO' TO AID FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS BUT MEASURE FACES
UNCERTAIN FUTURE AS CIVIL-RIGHTS LAWYERS PREPARE FOR BATTLE

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 1EL

LENGTH: 709 words


Proposition 187 -- the most passionately fought ballot measure in California
history -- is now law -- but for how long remains to be seen.

Battalions of civil rights lawyers across the state planned to wake up early
this morning to try to dismantle the measure, which won voter approval Tuesday
by a substantial margin.

Although the liberal Bay Area was evenly divided over the initiative aimed at
denying public schooling and most taxpayer-funded services to illegal
immigrants, Proposition 187 was approved by such overwhelming margins in the
conservative areas of Southern California that it sailed to victory.

"I think this is a showing of a public attitude, that we as a public are not
going to tolerate illegal immigration," said Alan Nelson of Sacramento, a former
Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner who helped pen the measure.
Proponents had an explanation for the unexpectedly large margin of victory.
"Once 187 got branded as racist, I think a lot of people didn't want to say they
were for it in the polls," said Jeff Black, 29, of Walnut Creek, who attended
Gov. Pete Wilson's victory party in Los Angeles. "But once they were in the
booth they voted their heart."

With 97 percent of precincts reporting, 59 percent of voters or 4,472,682
approved the measure and 41 percent or 3,104,648 opposed it.

Exit polls done for Associated Press found that the vote was split along ethnic
and racial lines. Whites favored it 3-2, blacks were split evenly and Hispanics
rejected it by 3-1. There was no breakdown for Asian-American voters. Latino
community activated

Latino activists tried to put an optimistic spin on results that many people in
their community considered devastating.

"There hasn't been a campaign in decades -- since Bobby Kennedy (ran for
president in 1968) -- when so many Latinos have come together," said Mike
Garcia, president of Service Employees International Union Local 1877 in San
Jose.

"Look around," Garcia said, pointing to the dozens of young Latinos crammed into
the anti-187 headquarters on San Jose's Alum Rock Avenue. "They can't wait to be
18 to vote."

Julia Lau, a Chinese-American UCLA student from San Jose, agreed. "It woke
people," she said, "to show how racist the society is."

Victor, a 35-year-old illegal immigrant and farm worker who traveled from
Salinas to San Jose for a "victory party," said "voters are making a very strong
error. All the crops are pulled by undocumented workers. In my crew, three have
documents and 20 are undocumented.

"I don't understand why Pete Wilson blames me for the state's economic
problems," he said. "I pay taxes. I shop in the same grocery stores."

Uncertain future

Opponents of 187 were also buoyed by the fact that it faces a highly uncertain
future.

The proposition's most controversial provision -- aimed at expelling illegal
immigrant children from school -- was expected to be put on hold by a lower
court since it flies in the face of a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court decision.

After days of demonstrations and marches against the measure, the Los Angeles
Police Department went on a state of "maximum deployment," but there were no
immediate reports of violence.

The vote was expected to exacerbate U.S.-Mexico relations.

Even before the results came in, at least 40 teen-agers wearing bandannas and
hoods overturned cash registers and trash cans, hurled hamburgers and Happy
Meals and kicked in glass windows at a McDonald's in Mexico City.

The protesters then painted black graffiti reading "Yankee Go Home" and "No to
187" before fleeing as police arrived.

White-hot debate

The debate over 187 proved even more incendiary than the white-hot battle over
Proposition 13, the opening salvo of the national tax revolt of the late '70s.
Proponents contended that California's 1.6 million illegal immigrants were
driving California into bankruptcy -- and that the state's taxpayers should no
longer be forced to pick up their tab. Passing the initiative, they said, would
"demagnetize" the state and send a clear message to Washington that Californians
wanted immigration laws enforced.

Opponents argued that Proposition 187 did nothing about border enforcement and
was mean-spirited, divisive and racist.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994
Staff Writers Jack Fischer, Brad Kava and Gina Boubion, Pamela Kramer of the
Mercury News Los Angeles Bureau and Wire Services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Same photo ran in Stock Final edition story with headline: "Legal
challenges begin before ballot box is cold"

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 10, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

JUDGES PULL PLUG ON 187 IN LIMBO: VOTER-APPROVED MEASURE WON'T TAKE EFFECT
BEFORE COURT HEARINGS ARE HELD.

BYLINE: CATHIE CALVERT AND KEN MCLAUGHLIN,, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 883 words


Gov. Pete Wilson has ordered state agencies to adopt emergency rules to enforce
Proposition 187, the controversial illegal immigration measure -- but judges
immediately pulled the plug on any immediate wholesale enforcement of the
measure.

A federal judge in Los Angeles issued a stern warning to California not to put
any part of Proposition 187 into effect, while a state court judge in San
Francisco formally blocked enforcement of provisions denying education to
undocumented immigrants.

Wilson made Proposition 187 the centerpiece of his re-election campaign and with
its approval by 59 percent of the voters on Tuesday, he moved quickly to put it
to use.

By 11:15 a.m. Wednesday, Wilson had issued an executive order directing state
agencies to begin work on emergency regulations to implement the initiative.

He immediately sought to suspend a state-only program that provides prenatal
care to illegal immigrants, telling the Department of Health Services to begin
notifying providers that the services will be discontinued "as soon as legally
possible."

He also suspended further admissions of illegal immigrants to state-paid nursing
home care. It was not immediately clear whether developments in court superseded
those actions.

William M. Byrne Jr., chief U.S. district judge in Los Angeles, immediately
barred statewide enforcement of all sections of Proposition 187 until he can
hold another hearing next Wednesday to consider a formal temporary restraining
order. He also told attorneys he wants to know if migrants are being denied
services before then.

The hearing will deal with restraining orders sought by immigration and civil
rights groups in four separate lawsuits.

The lawsuits are based on contentions that Proposition 187 is pre-empted by
federal statutes controlling immigration and the treatment of immigrants, is
unconstitutionally discriminatory, threatens deportations without due process
and other legal grounds.

Meanwhile, San Francisco Superior Court Judge Stuart R. Pollak, acting on three
other lawsuits, ordered public schools not to bar any children from attending on
the basis of their immigration status, not to check the status of students or
their parents, and not to report undocumented students or parents to state or
federal authorities.

Pollak's order had been considered a sure thing, since Proposition 187 -- aimed
at denying public schooling and most public services to illegal immigrants --
conflicts with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling granting undocumented children
equal rights to an education.

Wilson, in his push for emergency rules, noted that Proposition 187 requires
school and health officials to report those they "reasonably suspect" of being
undocumented. He said emergency regulations would interpret that term to mean
those unable to show proof of legal residency.

'Reasonably suspect'

"Reasonably suspect means that you are unable to provide documents that you are
legally within the country," Wilson said. "Their skin color, their national
origin, their accent is not the test."

He said illegal immigrants will "suffer some dislocation, for which I am sorry."

He said he believes the initiative's passage will prompt "individual families"
to leave California.

Wilson said that children of legal residents "are in no way affected by the law
that was passed," but he acknowledged in response to questioning that some may
be the target of discriminatory remarks.

"I can't, obviously, safeguard every child from taunts from another child," he
said.

Street protests

Passage of Proposition 187 brought only scattered reports of street
demonstrations in the Bay Area and Southern California.

School officials reacted quickly to the initiative's passage. Delaine Eastin,
the newly elected state superintendent of schools, told schools to ignore 187
even before the court orders were issued.

Dr. Bill Erlendson, assistant superintendent of the San Jose Unified School
District, sent e-mail advisories to principals, instructing them to tell their
staffs that it was business as usual.

Pedro Perales, superintendent of the Alum Rock Union Elementary School District,
on Wednesday sent crisis counseling teams to the district's six middle schools
to reassure students.

"They're safe, there's no change," Perales said. "It will take years for
anything to change, and we're here to teach them."

'Business as usual'

In riot-weary Southern California, a flurry of Wednesday news conferences
featured government, education and community leaders with varying agendas. They
sought to assure illegal immigrants that they still could send their children to
school and seek police assistance without fear.

Another group of community leaders said that regardless of the legal battles
awaiting the 187, its provisions should be greeted with non-compliance --
non-violently, but adamantly.

"It is a shameful vote," said Joe Hicks, the black executive director of the
Southern Christian Leadership Conference of Southern California.

He said the future for the state lies in a new civil rights movement to overcome
the fear that he said inspired the vote.

Said Warren Furutani, a Los Angeles school trustee: "Regardless of the law, the
issue of what's right and wrong is what we have to appeal to."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Wire Services and staff writers Jack Fischer and Betty
Barnacle in San Jose and Gina Boubion and Pamela Kramer in Los Angeles
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Same photo ran in Morning Final edition story with FEDERAL JUDGE BARS
ENFORCEMENT AS IMMIGRATION
PHOTO: LUCI S. WILLIAMS -- MERCURY NEWS
Students from four Peninsula schools converged on Redwood City's Hall of Justice
Wednesday to protest passage of Proposition 187.
941110 FR 1A PF 2; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 14, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LUNGREN GIVES DETAILS OF PROP. 187 ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: Washington


Children born in the United States to undocumented immigrant parents have a
right to schooling under the newly passed Proposition 187 but probably will end
up leaving the country anyway if their parents can't prove their own legal
residency, state Attorney General Dan Lungren said Sunday.

Lungren's comments came during an appearance on "This Week With David Brinkley"
in which he gave some details on how he planned to enforce Proposition 187.

The measure, which voters approved 59 percent to 41 percent last week, deprives
illegal immigrants of education, non-emergency medical care and other social
services. It also requires doctors, teachers and police officers to report
suspected undocumented immigrants to authorities.

"With respect to education, there will be a requirement for proof that they have
a residency and a legal residency with their family here," Lungren said on the
news show. "If that were the case and their family were forced to go back to
Mexico, I assume they would go as well."

Several medical and teachers' groups have said they would not enforce the
provisions. Other groups filed lawsuits against the measure.

Lungren told the ABC news show that people not enforcing the law would not be
punished.

"They wouldn't be committing a crime," he said. "I've tried to make that very
clear. There's not prosecution that would be in the offing."

Lungren said he would prefer to prevent illegal immigration rather than address
the problem after the fact but the federal government has done little to stop
people from coming to the United States illegally.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 17, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRINCIPLED STAND BISHOP SPEAKS AGAINST 187 CLEARLY AND COMPASSIONATELY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 275 words


GOOD for Pierre DuMaine, the Catholic bishop of San Jose!

Approval of Proposition 187, which would deny public schooling and general
medical treatment to illegal immigrants in California, has generated fear and
apprehension, even though the measure is tied up in court.

Teachers, nurses and others who deal daily with immigrants are especially
worried that they may be told to turn in the very people they are trying to
help. For many, this would create a wrenching conflict between official duty and
personal loyalty.

With clarity and courage uncommon for a cleric taking a controversial stand, the
bishop has spoken to that concern, in a way that applies not only to Catholics,
but also to many others who care about their fellow human beings.

"The church upholds the rights and duties of sovereign states to controltheir
borders," DuMaine said in a recent public statement. "But when they fail to do
so, they cannot deny the human rights and dignity of all who enter, nor can they
enlist citizens, teachers, health-care professionals or ministers of the Church
to inform on their clients to compensate for insecure borders."

DuMaine also reminded the community that if 187 is implemented, legal as well as
undocumented immigrants "will face new threats of suspicion and discrimination
solely because of their nationality, language or color."

"Their status of legal residence does not affect or change their status as human
beings with the same fundamental human rights as all other people in our
community."

In Santa Clara County, where a majority of voters opposed 187, the bishop's
words will fall on many sympathetic ears.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 18, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS COMPLAIN OF ABUSE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


Reports of harassment, intimidation and other abuse against illegal immigrants
are pouring in to a California hot line as advocates and adversaries of
Proposition 187 wait for courts to decide its constitutionality.

The Coalition for Human Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, with 500 member
organizations, has been fielding 100 to 150 calls a day since voters approved a
measure to deny illegal immigrants educational, social and non-emergency medical
services.

David Paz Soldan, who staffs the hot line, said reported abuses include "a lot
of hospitals, clinics and other health entities asking for documentation of
citizenship or residence," along with scattered hate crimes.

"We've gotten calls from people who've been asked for their documentation in
pharmacies, in banks, and then refused service," Soldan said. "One gentleman
said he went to open a bank account and had a fake Social Security card and the
teller instead of just saying no . . . had him arrested."

The hot line number is (213) 353-1341.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 1, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GAO: STATE SPENDS $2.35 BILLION ON ILLEGAL ENTRANTS

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: Washington


California taxpayers spend $2.35 billion yearly to educate, jail and medically
treat illegal immigrants, congressional investigators reported Wednesday --
figures state officials swiftly seized to press their case for dramatically more
federal aid.

Gov. Pete Wilson, who rode concern over unlawful immigration to a second term
last month, immediately pointed to the General Accounting Office report as proof
that his federal claim for $2.4 billion had been on the mark all along.

"It's taken a year of study and stonewalling and now, with this report, we look
forward to putting to rest the debate about whose numbers are right and to total
reimbursement without delay," said Leslie Goodman, Wilson's deputy chief of
staff.

Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., who called for the GAO study, said she would press
President Clinton to send back to California the $1.3 billion that illegal
immigrants pay in federal taxes. She estimated illegal immigrants already pay an
estimated $900 million in state and local taxes.

"I think we have emerging here a really strong rationale for the direct
reimbursement of those funds back to our state," Boxer said at a news
conference. "It's almost an even match in terms of the numbers."

California expects to receive $65 million from the federal government this
fiscal year to help pay for imprisoning illegal immigrants.

A White House aide said Wednesday that Clinton is "very sympathetic" to
California's problem. "We're putting together the budget now," the official
said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "There's still a way to go in the
process but we're very much open to increasing the money for reimbursement."

Boxer made it clear she is expecting more than sympathy from the Democratic
president.

"We will see this president, in his budget, move toward these numbers in a very
big way," she said. "That's my prediction. I believe that. Now it is up to a
Republican Congress to make sure that stays in the mix."

The GAO report plowed little new statistical turf, relying chiefly on figures
from Wilson's budget office and from a 2-month-old study conducted by the Urban
Institute. The GAO, while roughly agreeing with Wilson's estimates, said the
state was slightly underestimating its education costs and overestimating its
incarceration costs.

Even Boxer said neither she nor the GAO was "thrilled" by the study. But she
defended it as a useful examination of the best estimates available.

But Wilson's office criticized Boxer's decision to use estimated taxes paid by
illegal immigrants to lower by about $1 billion the bill California should
submit to the federal government for medical, legal and education costs.

"It doesn't take into account that you have to pay taxes for roads, and public
safety, and environmental protection," Goodman explained. "It's baloney. "The
good news is that (Boxer) seems to have had an election-year conversion. We're
glad that she's joined the fight and we will judge her performance based on when
the check clears for California."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Wilson
941201 FR 9A 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 2, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IT'S NOT THEFT, IT'S WORK IMMIGRANTS PAY THEIR WAY IN TAXES;
MOSTLY TO THE FEDS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 239 words


IF a burglar breaks into your home, do you have to let him eat the leftover
turkey and steal your TV, because you didn't keep him out?

That analogy is popular with supporters of Proposition 187, who see illegal
immigrants as thieves coming to California to take our health care, our
education, our tax money.

But it's wrong.

The federal General Accounting Office estimates California's costs for
educating, incarcerating and providing health care for illegal immigrants at
$2.35 billion, echoing other studies. The GAO's median estimate is that illegal
immigrants pay $2.2 billion in taxes.

The problem is that most of the costs generated by illegal immigrants are paid
by the state, while most of the revenues go to the federal government. According
to the GAO's median estimates, California collects about $900,000 from illegal
immigrants, while the federal government gets $1.3 billion. As Sen. Barbara
Boxer observes, if all the federal revenues came back to the state California
would come close to breaking even.

And that's not counting the value of the labor illegal immigrants provide. How
many two-career couples are dependent on undocumented babysitters to care for
the kids?

The feds are not about to cut a check for $1.3 billion, of course. But let's not
whine too much about the burden of a low-wage labor force. Illegal immigrants
are not stealing from us. They are working for us.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 16, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 DEFINITION OF ILLEGAL MAY BE ITS UNDOING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


If the first major court ruling on Proposition 187 is any indication, the
immigration initiative could be undone by some of its most obscure provisions.
The measure's main selling point was its cutoff of state funding for illegal
immigrants' education, social services and non-emergency health care. Legally,
its most vulnerable points were generally thought to be the education ban and a
requirement to report suspected illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

Some of those issues figured in a Los Angeles federal judge's ruling Wednesday
barring enforcement of most of Proposition 187, but none was the center of
attention.

Instead, U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer was chiefly concerned with how the
state defined illegal immigrants and what it told them -- two subjects that went
virtually unnoticed in the heated campaign over the initiative.

Briefly put, Proposition 187 defines illegal immigrants as those who are neither
U.S. citizens nor lawfully admitted for permanent or temporary residence. The
definition appears to ignore sizable groups, such as applicants for political
asylum and spouses and children of newly legalized residents, who entered
illegally but are allowed to remain while federal authorities determine their
status.

When a health or welfare agency encounters a suspected illegal immigrant, it is
supposed to tell that person, in writing, to either obtain legal status or leave
the country. A police officer who suspects an arrested person is an illegal
immigrant is supposed to give the same message after demanding documentation.

What that procedure disregards, in the view of opponents, is the entire system
of federal laws allowing an undocumented immigrant to consult a lawyer, ask for
a hearing and delay or even defeat deportation on a variety of grounds. The
apparent purpose of the initiative's language, opponents argued -- and Pfaelzer
agreed -- is to get large numbers of people to leave quickly.

The judge said both provisions of 187 appeared to conflict with federal law.
Because the flaws affect so much of the state's contact with immigrants, she
said, there is at least a serious question about whether 187 contains a
California "scheme to regulate immigration," something that only the federal
government can do.

With those words, the immigrant-rights and civil-liberties lawyers who have
fought Proposition 187 since the day after the Nov. 8 election scored their most
important victory yet. They had expected to tie up the ban on public education,
which conflicts with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling, but only the most
optimistic had forecast a decision invalidating virtually the entire initiative.

Pfaelzer's preliminary injunction, which is to be given final form in a hearing
Jan. 4, blocks all of Proposition 187 except a relatively minor provision
increasing penalties for the sale or use of false immigration documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 17, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DECORATED MARINE NOW A LEGAL RESIDENT HIS WIFE, 2 OF HIS KIDS REMAIN ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 445 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


As a U.S. Marine Corps sergeant, Danny Lightfoot won accolades galore, but it
was not until Friday that he won the right to call the country he had defended
for 11 years his home.

With rows of ribbons on his chest marking his distinguished service and a
6-foot-tall replica of the Statue of Liberty standing behind him, Lightfoot
received the green card that makes him a legal resident of the United States.

"I think I'm fortunate to be even considered to be a resident of the United
States," Lightfoot said with his tearful wife, Raquel, who is an illegal
immigrant, by his side. "I look forward to protecting the United States."

Agreeing with the Immigration and Naturalization Service's desire not to deport
Lightfoot, Immigration Judge Nathan Gordon granted him permanent resident status
Friday morning. Lightfoot's wife was also allowed to stay in the country until
January 1996.

'Really emotional'

During a brief ceremony after the ruling, INS district director Richard Rogers
presented Lightfoot with a temporary green card.

"It was really emotional for all of us. I almost started crying," Lightfoot's
attorney, Carl Shusterman, said.

Lightfoot, who is stationed in Barstow, immediately applied for citizenship and
could be naturalized in less than a year. His wife also applied for a work
permit, but two of his three children remain illegal immigrants.

'Willing to give his life'

"He felt like somebody had prepared this sumptuous meal for him, but his kids
were going hungry. He said he would not be fully satisfied until the rest of his
family had legalized," Shusterman said. "He was perfectly willing to give his
life for the United States on the condition that his wife and kids were taken
care of."

Lightfoot, who is a native of the Bahamas, entered the country on a student visa
but stayed after it expired, using fake documents to enlist in the Marines in
1983.

While stationed in Okinawa in 1992, he discovered that he did not have the
proper documentation to allow two of his children who were born there to return
to the United States.

He confessed his illegal status to his military superiors, who allowed him to
remain in the Marines because of his outstanding record. They also arranged for
his wife and children to obtain special temporary visas.

Those visas expired in October 1993 and his wife and two children have been
living illegally in the country ever since. His oldest son was born in North
Carolina and is therefore a citizen.

Lightfoot finally surrendered to the INS in April, saying he wanted to become a
citizen. He was freed while authorities decided whether to grant him citizenship
or deport him.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sgt. Danny Lightfoot with son Danny Jr. on Friday.
941217 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 18, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LIFE AS A SUSPECT IN THE NEW CALIFORNIA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6P

LENGTH: 453 words


rr The ads in favor of Proposition 187 referred to "illegal immigrants" but only
showed Mexicans crossing the border. Where were the other illegals?

When I was registering people to vote, a man told my group that he was voting
for 187. He said he would deny service to illegal immigrants at a local business
he owned. When asked how he would tell who was illegal, he replied, "You can
tell by the accent."

My parents have been legal residents of this country for over 30 years. Most of
the time, you can hear an accent. We do not want to be second-class citizens,
nor should we. They have worked hard and deserve the same respect as anyone
else.

Germany was in a depression when Adolf Hitler found a scapegoat and rode it to
office.

We ask not to be singled out to save the governor his job and to appease angry
white males who blame illegal aliens for the loss of their jobs. The jobs being
lost are due to companies moving to states with lower taxes and cheaper land
deals, or companies that can no longer compete with cheap imports (Asian
imports, not Mexican).

This country has been built on the backs of immigrant workers. If the state
wants to get rid of illegal aliens, then do it right. Please don't make life
harder for me. I was born under suspicion, constantly stopped by cops for
questioning because of my "look."

Now you have thrown another straw on my back, a straw of suspicion, and
suspicion hurts.

cf,geb - Roberto J. Arreola

cf,cbli cp,9 San Jose
subhead,16 cf,cxl Cops need firepower

for potential firefights

body,12p8 rr Chris S. Gimelli's Dec. 10 letter "More bullets won't make better
cops" objects to the San Francisco Police Department spending large sums of
money to provide officers with semiautomatic pistols to replace the revolvers
being used now. He would prefer that the money be used to give the officers
better training so that they could shoot more accurately.

In spite of the impression given by the movies and television, the pistol
(revolver or semiautomatic) is not a very accurate weapon. While practice
shooting at targets (stationery as well as pop-up) will improve one's aim, it
does not duplicate the situation in a firefight.

The targets do not move around. They do not hide behind walls or cars, and they
do not shoot back. In a firefight, the officer will fire as many rounds as
possible before taking cover to avoid being shot by the perpetrator, who might
have fully automatic assault weapons.

In many cases no cover is available. The need to fire a large number of rounds
in a firefight results from the conditions and the inaccuracy of the pistol, and
not because of inadequate training.

cf,geb - Sheldon L. Matlow

cf,cbli cp,9 San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 20, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

JUDGE THROWS OUT FLORIDA GOVERNOR'S IMMIGRATION LAWSUIT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: Miami


A judge today threw out Gov. Lawton Chiles' lawsuit seeking $1.5 billion from
the federal government to cover Florida's costs of coping with illegal
immigration.

U.S. District Judge Edward B. Davis said he doesn't have the authority to order
the government to compensate Florida and the dispute is political in nature --
not legal.

It was the first of a series of lawsuits filed by five states who accuse the
federal government of not enforcing U.S. borders. Chiles wanted Florida
reimbursed for schooling, health care and prison beds used by hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants.

Tom Herndon, the governor's chief of staff, said the governor and Attorney
General Bob Butterworth intended to appeal the dismissal, all the way to the
U.S. Supreme Court if necessary.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 21, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE REJECTS FLORIDA'S BID TO RECOVER COST OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: EDDIE DOMINGUEZ, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: Miami


Calling it a political and not a legal issue, a federal judge Tuesday threw out
the lawsuit Gov. Lawton Chiles had filed hoping to recover from the U.S.
government the $1.5 billion he says illegal immigration has cost Florida.

The decision by U.S. District Judge Edward Davis was followed by a quick promise
from the governor's mansion to appeal.

"We are still committed to pressing Florida's case and will explore every avenue
open to us to make sure the federal government does right by Florida," said
Chiles.

In the first in a series of lawsuits that Florida, California and three other
states brought against the federal government, Chiles wanted the state
reimbursed for schooling, health care and prison beds used by hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants.

Gov. Pete Wilson shrugged off the Florida ruling. While the California and
Florida lawsuits both attack the federal government's failure to pay for the
states' costs of illegal immigration, Wilson said the legal tack taken by
Florida was different from California's.

"The Florida decision today has very limited relevance to California's lawsuit
because the vast majority of California's claims weren't even raised in the
Florida case. In fact, three of Florida's four claims were not even mentioned in
California's lawsuit," Wilson said in a statement.

Dan Stein, executive director of the Washington-based Federation for American
Immigration Reform, said the decision was a cop-out that would probably push
Florida toward anti-immigration ballot initiatives similar to California's
Proposition 187.

"This is outrageous," Stein said. "The judicial system allows itself to be
invoked by Haitians in Guantanamo, who have never set a foot in the United
States. . . . Yet the courts have continued to deny the rights of United States
citizens to see the immigration laws are being enforced."

A group called Floridians for Immigration Control is already working on an
initiative that will closely resemble Proposition 187. Helping them is the
consultant who helped win passage of Proposition 187 last month.

In dismissing the suit, Davis said, "The court recognizes that the state of
Florida is suffering under a tremendous financial burden due to the methods in
which the federal government has chosen to enforce the immigration laws . . .
(and) Florida is in desperate need of relief from this overwhelming burden it is
being unfairly forced to bear. . . .

"But recognizing these facts does not create a legal theory under which this
court may grant relief. Without such a legal theory this court must dismiss this
action."

A report released by Chiles' office in March estimated that state and local
governments paid $884 million for services to 345,000 illegal immigrants in 1993
alone.

Arizona, California, Texas and New Jersey are also suing to recover funds. At a
hearing last week in Texas, a federal judge said he's likely to dismiss the
lawsuit there also, though he gave the state time to file more arguments before
making his final decision.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gary Webb of the Mercury News Sacramento bureau contributed to this
report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 28, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A VOTE OF GRATITUDE TO PROP. 187 AUTHORS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 853 words


The Dec. 19 editorial "Popped 187" states that the authors of Proposition 187
owe apologies to all of us for their flawed ballot initiative on illegal
immigration. I disagree; we owe them our collective thanks.

Thank you unemployed accountant, political consultant, police employee, state
legislator and immigration chief. Thank you for attempting to enact important
legislation on a topic that our elected and paid politicians in Sacramento
cannot deal with. Thank you for not representing the big money special
interests. Thank you for bringing this important issue to the forefront of state
and national attention. Thank you for forcing all of us to look inside
ourselves, when we think of the important issues of immigration (legal and
illegal), race, civil rights, taxes, public health, children and fairness.

Many of us who voted for Proposition 187 understood that its wording was not
perfect. We did not expect any Earth-shattering changes to take place as soon as
the votes were counted. We simply wanted to send a message to state and federal
officials that illegal immigration is an important issue that needs to be
addressed much more effectively.

In his Dec. 15 speech, President Clinton pointed to illegal immigration as a
major problem facing America today. I do not think he would have mentioned
illegal immigration had Proposition 187 not been passed so overwhelmingly by the
voters of our state.

- David C. Newkirk

San Jose

* On the surface, the Dec. 25 Perspective article by David Gutierrez, a visiting
professor at Stanford, appeared insightful and scholarly. But a closer
examination revealed his premise to be no more sophisticated than common picket
slogans.

Despite his finely honed rhetoric, the issue of Proposition 187 is simply
statutory; it only targets those who are in this country illegally. To then
extrapolate that this is terrorizing and racist is disingenuous.

Proposition 187 was not about anti-immigration. It was about Californians fed-up
with people illegally in this country collecting welfare and other tax- funded
benefits. It was about taxpayers tired of local politicians ordering that
federal immigration laws be ignored, while at the same time calling for more
taxes to pay for fewer services. It was about voters putting their foot down -
as they did with Proposition 13 - when the state Legislature continually refuses
to act.

The will of the people is, thanks to the courts, temporarily restrained, and the
anti-187 people have their temporary victory. But, if the taxpayers lose this
one to the lawyers, more propositions will follow. And don't be surprised if the
lawyers are next on the list.

- David Fazo

San Jose

* The "Popped 187" editorial missed the point.

Some California citizens wrote a proposition to deny or limit tax-supported
economic benefits to law-breakers. Their words were not perfect; their intent
was.

There was a huge groundswell all over the nation to reduce government.
Californians, in approving 187, were part of that national mood. Proposition 187
is not racist. It is an attempt to deny or limit economic benefits, not to deny
civil rights.

Civil rights do not equate to economic benefits.

- Todd Walsh

Saratoga

* In Joe Rodriguez's Personal View on Dec. 22, he asks Latino activists to
explain door to door why Proposition 187 will punish innocent children and won't
solve illegal immigration. Why don't you also explain the Mexican policy toward
illegal immigrants. Mexican laws are as strict as Proposition 187. Are we mean
spirited for having the same laws as Mexico?

If you really want to do something meaningful, why not try to improve conditions
in Mexico? Take some of the "small fortune" being spent by civil rights groups
fighting 187 and use it to provide medical care and education for Mexican
children living in Mexico.

A lot of us are getting tired of people thinking that they are smarter than us,
and somehow have the right (entitlement) to take (steal) money that we worked
for. If you want to help the illegals, you pay for it, or talk the activists
into paying for it. I'm having hard enough time paying for my own family.

- Steve Evans

San Jose

* Mexican government officials have described Proposition 187 as a violation of
human rights and labeled its supporters in California as racists.

These accusations ring hollow when one asks why the immigrants are streaming
across the border in the first place. Mexican citizens are fleeing the human
rights abuses and the horrors of poverty inflicted upon them by the Mexican
government and its wealthy supporters. One oppressive and corrupt political
party has ruled Mexico for a good part of this century wreaking havoc on the
poor, and resulting in the tide of both legal and illegal immigration into the
United States.

Mexican leaders must address the inequities in their country and offer citizens
an opportunity to succeed at home. Unless radical changes are made, the Mexican
underclass will continue to find more opportunity and hope in places like the
"racist" state of California.

- Daniel P. Tracy

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: T. BRIAN KELLY
941228 ED 6B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 5, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RENO HAILS INS EFFORT TO PLUG LEAKY BORDER MORE AGENTS: THE TIDE IS SLOWING, SHE
DECLARES.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Declaring the federal government's "orderly buildup" along the Mexican border an
initial success, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno said Wednesday that would-be
immigrants have gotten the message that crossing the international boundary is
no longer a cakewalk.

At a news conference, Reno announced that last year's crime bill would help fund
200 more Border Patrol agents in the San Diego area this year to bolster
Operation Gatekeeper, which the Immigration and Naturalization Service launched
with fanfare Oct. 1. The new agents will be in addition to the 378 hired or
redeployed to the region last year.

For the last three months of 1994, the attorney general said, the number of
apprehensions at the nation's hottest border crossing was down 32 percent
compared with the same period the year before.

"We've begun to make a difference," Reno said, contending that when she took
office in March 1993, the border "was basically unprotected."

INS official concurs

Gustavo de la Vina, the new INS Western Region director, agreed with Reno that
border enforcement until recently was a joke.

"Now we have the tools," said de la Vina, the former head of the Border Patrol's
San Diego sector. "We're closing the back door to illegal immigration."

In addition to the small army of new agents, each costing about $60,000
annually, the new tools include millions of dollars in new equipment -- infrared
night scopes, laser fingerprinting machines that allow agents to track repeat
offenders, dozens of new radios and more than 200 new white Ford Broncos.

How many would-be entrants are giving up -- and how many are simply slipping in
some other place -- is still unclear.

But de la Vina said he knows that Gatekeeper is having a dramatic impact because
agents to the east are seeing enormous jumps in arrests. The Campo station, the
San Diego sector's easternmost facility, had 961 apprehensions last month, up
from 203 in December 1993. Much farther east, in Nogales, Ariz., arrests also
are up sharply.

San Diego agents also are reporting fewer "hits" on motion sensors and fewer
sightings from helicopters, de la Vina said. Residents of Imperial Beach and
other border towns are noting a big drop in foot traffic, he said.

De la Vina said the INS strategy is to push the illegal traffic to remote desert
areas, making it harder for people to cross the border and quickly blend into
the local population.

The Border Patrol is bracing for a busy January because the recent devaluation
of the Mexican peso is expected to make jobs in the United States even more
attractive. In addition, January is traditionally the month when many
farmworkers return from Mexico after the holiday season. But de la Vina said the
agency hasn't seen any evidence of increased illegal traffic at the border so
far.

Pressure discounted

Reno scoffed at the notion that passage of Proposition 187 (which she opposed)
or pressure from Gov. Pete Wilson, the initiative's main champion, had anything
to do with Wednesday's announcement. She said Operation Gatekeeper was the
Clinton administration's own initiative, conceived after she was "appalled" by
the Border Patrol's lack of resources during an August 1993 border tour.

"We're happy that they've finally recognized that something needs to be done
about this," said Paul Kranhold, a spokesman for Wilson. "But in addition to the
problem of the porous border, we have another problem -- the $3 billion a year
that state taxpayers are forced to pick up for federally mandated services" to
illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Reno
950105 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 7, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIGHTER CONTROLS ON CALIFORNIA'S BORDERS PLANNED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 194 words


Preparations were announced Friday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
for the deployment of nearly 600 new staffers to California. New high- tech
fingerprinting systems also may be a possibility in the enhanced border-control
effort. Using money from its biggest budget increase in history, the INS plans
to add 2,365 employees nationwide as well as an array of technological
improvements. California, home to more illegal immigrants than any other state,
is getting the biggest share of the increase.

Attorney General Janet Reno announced in California earlier this week that 200
Border Patrol agents would be added to the San Diego region. They will be the
largest single component of the 598 new INS staffers heading for California.
Thirty-eight investigators will also be coming, helping out a Los Angeles-based
effort to target industries employing illegal immigrants.

With money both from its new budget and last year's crime bill, the INS is also
sending California 102 new inspectors for places like San Francisco
International Airport, 131 asylum officers to hear cases in San Francisco and
elsewhere, and assorted support personnel.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 8, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW BORDER ORDER OPERATION GATEWAY CUTS CROSSINGS WITHOUT THE MILITARY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 314 words


ALONG the rolling hills south of San Diego, the border is more secure today than
it has been in years. Operation Gateway is working, proof that we can curb
illegal crossings without need of military troops or a "Tortilla Curtain."

After only three months, apprehensions of border crossers has decreased by a
third. That's a pretty good indicator that fewer people are trying and making it
across.

To be sure, more people are attempting to cross at less-guarded points east, but
Gateway and its sister Operation Blockade in Texas are fulfilling their mission,
which is to deter illegal immigration, not to try to seal the border. An
impregnable, seamless border would be incredibly expensive, politically
explosive, and futile besides: Sixty percent of illegal immigrants don't run
across, they fly or drive across legally and then overstay their visas.

Attorney Gen. Janet Reno and her boss, President Clinton, deserve credit for
promoting constructive strategies for the San Ysidro border area while Gov. Pete
Wilson and Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein were talking like
armchair generals.

Instead of sending down the California National Guard, the Clinton
administration hired or redeployed 378 border agents to San Ysidro. Clinton's
crime bill will add another 200. The administration bought the woefully
underfunded Border Patrol new equipment. No regressive, business-unfriendly
border taxes were needed.

This constructive response opens the door to further practical solutions to
illegal immigration, such as binational border management, helping Mexico create
more jobs at home, reducing the red tape for legal work permits, and increasing
the number of visas for low-skilled workers. We'd like to see the Clinton
administration and the Republican Congress work together with Mexico on a range
of possibilities to build on the success at San Ysidro.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 25, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON BACKS COMPUTERIZED CHECK ON IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 713 words

DATELINE: Washington


President Clinton tucked a stick of political dynamite into his State of the
Union address Tuesday night, endorsing a proposed federal computerized registry
to screen job applicants for valid citizenship.

"In the budget I will present to you," Clinton said, "we will try to do more to
speed the deportation of illegal aliens who are arrested for crimes, to better
identify illegal aliens in the workplace as recommended by the commission headed
by former Congresswoman Barbara Jordan."

When Jordan's panel made its recommendation last fall, it was condemned as an
assault on civil rights by pro-immigration groups and it got a lukewarm White
House reception.

Hailed in California

Clinton's decision to endorse it -- albeit almost as an afterthought in a
wide-ranging, conciliatory speech -- was hailed in California by supporters of
Proposition 187, the voter-approved measure that would deny most public benefit
to illegal immigrants.

"Clinton has clearly vacillated between talking tough on illegal immigration and
being wimpy on Proposition 187," said Alan Nelson, a former Immigration and
Naturalization Service commissioner. "That was ridiculous. Now, he's leaning
more towards (Gov. Pete) Wilson, and that's good."

Wilson supports check

Wilson has supported the Jordan commission's call for a computerized check for
legitimate Social Security numbers, which supporters insist is not a step toward
a national identification card.

Jordan has compared the new system to widely used automatic teller machines.
Instead of a personal identification number punched into a machine to get cash,
prospective workers would simply recite their Social Security numbers to clerks
who would scan computer screens to ensure their validity.

The administration wants to explore a pilot program to see whether such a system
would be effective. The Jordan commission has proposed testing it in California,
Texas, Florida, New York and Illinois.

"All Americans, not only in the states most heavily affected but in every place
in this country, are rightly disturbed by the large numbers of illegal aliens
entering our country," the president said in his nationally televised speech.
"The jobs they hold might otherwise be held by citizens or legal immigrants. The
public services they use impose burdens on our taxpayers."

Talk like that sounded familiar to California analysts who have followed the
state's volatile immigration debate.

Listen and smile

"We in California listen to that and smile," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a senior
political associate at Claremont Graduate School. "It appears he is following
the lead of Pete Wilson, and that gives Wilson more credibility as a
presidential nominee."

But the reviews in Wilson's suite of offices in Sacramento were decidedly
unenthusiastic.

The Republican governor, who will be here later this week to renew his appeal
for billions more in federal money to pay for immigration-related costs, called
Clinton's immigration program lackluster.

Leslie Goodman, Wilson's deputy chief of staff and chief spokeswoman, said that
for all the advanced talk out of the White House about how Clinton was going to
elevate immigration's place on the national agenda, Tuesday night's speech was
disappointing.

"It must have been one of those issues that hit the cutting room floor of the
Oval Office," Goodman said. "If you blinked, you missed what he said. So we'll
reserve judgment on what that substance is -- until we see some substance."

Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural economics at the University of
California, Davis, said immigration experts must now wait for the administration
to flesh out Clinton's bare-bones rhetoric.

"It's a big deal to get mentioned in the State of the Union, so we know he's
trying to play up the idea that the administration is going to take illegal
immigration more seriously," Martin said. "Now the question is: What does that
mean?"

U.S. Rep. Pete Stark, D-Hayward, said Clinton wants to make it more difficult
for employers to hire illegal immigrants.

"I contend that 99 out of 100 employers know they're doing what they're doing,"
Stark said. "You're going to cut down the incentive to come to this country.
Anything that we can do that's tougher gets my support."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE OF THE UNION

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: When Barbara Jordan's panel made its recommendation last fall, it was
condemned as an assault on civil rights by pro-immigration groups and it got a
lukewarm White House reception.
950125 FR 17A

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 26, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CHALLENGE DRIVER-LICENSING LAWS RISKY: MANY GO WITHOUT A
LICENSE OR INSURANCE.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 833 words


He drives without a license or insurance -- risking tickets, arrest and, as of
Jan. 1, even forfeiture of his car every time he gets behind the wheel.

For Manuel Campos and thousands of other undocumented immigrants in the South
Bay, this is a fact of life in post-Proposition 187 California, where, at every
turn, voters and legislators seem intent on pushing illegal entrants out.

But Campos and others say they are not leaving and that laws denying driver's
licenses to the undocumented and allowing police to confiscate cars only drive
up insurance costs for all and fuel discrimination toward Hispanics.

"Every time they try to push us, we're hurt, but so is everyone else," said
Campos, of San Jose, an undocumented immigrant who works as a janitor. "These
laws give us no incentive to get insurance, which means that when, God forbid,
we get into accidents, the other drivers are out of luck."

The forfeiture law, written by Assemblyman Richard Katz, D-Panorama City, was
not drafted with illegal immigrants in mind but did gain some Republican support
for that reason. The state's estimated 2 million unlicensed drivers --
particularly those convicted of drunken driving -- were the intended targets.
"Immigration status was never a consideration in introducing and fighting for
passage of this law," Katz said. "Now police can use this law to get illegal
drivers off the road and make our streets safer."

But Campos and other undocumented immigrants -- who number about 1.5 million in
California -- say Katz's law unfairly threatens their livelihoods because
legislation that went into effect last year bars illegal entrants from obtaining
California driver's licenses.

The undocumented workers see themselves taking jobs that others reject, and they
do not understand why new laws make it harder for them to succeed.

Their cars, they say, are their lifelines for getting to work and feeding their
children.

"Before, when police gave me tickets (for driving without a license), I would
pay and go on working," said Salvador Diaz, 42, of Gilroy, an undocumented
immigrant who works as a carpenter. "But now, if they take my car, I am left
without any way of getting to work and without any way of supporting my family."

What's worse, Diaz said, is that such laws prompt people like him to rebel
against the system.

"If they insist on treating us like criminals, we will act like criminals," he
said. "We won't get insurance, and, if we can help it, we're not going to stick
around to give the other driver our information after we get in an accident."

Immigrant-rights advocates say the likelihood is that unlicensed immigrants will
continue to drive, forgoing insurance, vehicle registration renewals and smog
checks.

The lack of insurance could be particularly costly, since the typical California
driver already is left with an average of $150 extra in insurance premiums every
year to cover uninsured drivers, according to insurance company and Department
of Motor Vehicle estimates.

Most insurance companies require a license to issue coverage, so many
undocumented workers would not be eligible.

The new forfeiture law -- and the pre-existing law barring the undocumented from
getting driver's licenses -- puts illegal entrants in "a real dilemma," said
Supervising Deputy District Attorney Richard Beard, who is helping implement the
new laws in Santa Clara County.

But since the undocumented cannot go through the DMV, Beard said, it is best --
for the sake of traffic safety -- that they stay off the roads.

"The person who has not taken a driving test, I don't know if they could drive
safely down the road," Beard said. "I don't know if they . . . know the rules of
the road or if they are able to pass the vision test or other requirements."

Those who support the undocumented immigrants argue that the laws further
alienate a group of people already disenfranchised by racism and the
overwhelming approval of Proposition 187, which denies most public services to
illegal entrants.

The DMV and forfeiture laws "hurt all residents of California," said Felix De La
Torre, a Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund lobbyist who tried
to block passage of both in the state Assembly. "Undocumented people are still
going to drive because they need to earn a living."

The state also will lose revenue from vehicle registration and driver's license
fees, he added.

Campos, 29, who applied for his residency this month after being in California
seven years, said he hopes he can get a license soon.

After getting smacked with four tickets for driving without a license --
including one for $405 four months ago -- the father of two said he is looking
forward to the day he can drive legally with insurance.

"All we want is a chance to work here so our children can have a better future,"
the Mexican immigrant said, standing next to his beat-up 1976 Plymouth. "We
don't want to be outlaws. Why are people so hard on us?"

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              January 28, 1995 Saturday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FEEL PINCH OF IMPOUNDMENT LAW, PROP. 187

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 763 words


He drives without a license or insurance, risking tickets, arrest and, as of
Jan. 1, even forfeiture of his car, every time he gets behind the wheel.

For Manuel Campos and thousands of other undocumented immigrants in the South
Bay, this is a fact of life in post-Proposition 187 California, where, at every
turn, voters and legislators seem intent on pushing illegal entrants out.

But Campos and others say they are not leaving and that laws denying driver's
licenses to the undocumented and allowing police to confiscate cars only drive
up insurance costs for all and fuel discrimination toward Hispanics.

"Every time they try to push us, we're hurt, but so is everyone else," said
Campos, of San Jose, an undocumented immigrant who works as a janitor. "These
laws give us no incentive to get insurance, which means that when, God forbid,
we get into accidents, the other drivers are out of luck."

The forfeiture law, written by Assemblyman Richard Katz, D-Panorama City, was
not drafted with illegal immigrants in mind but did gain some Republican support
for that reason. The state's estimated 2 million unlicensed drivers --
particularly those convicted of drunken driving -- were the intended targets.
"Immigration status was never a consideration in introducing and fighting for
passage of this law," Katz said. "Now police can use this law to get illegal
drivers off the road and make our streets safer."

Livelihoods threatened

But Campos and other undocumented immigrants -- who number about 1.5 million in
California -- say Katz's law unfairly threatens their livelihoods because
legislation that went into effect last year bars illegal entrants from obtaining
California driver's licenses.

The undocumented workers see themselves taking jobs that others reject, and they
do not understand why new laws make it harder for them to succeed.

Their cars, they say, are their lifelines for getting to work and feeding their
children.

"Before, when police gave me tickets (for driving without a license), I would
pay and go on working," said Salvador Diaz, 42, of Gilroy, an undocumented
immigrant who works as a carpenter. "But now, if they take my car, I am left
without any way of getting to work and without any way of supporting my family."

Law prompts anger

What's worse, Diaz said, is that such laws prompt people like him to rebel
against the system. "If they insist on treating us like criminals, we will act
like criminals," he said. "We won't get insurance, and, if we can help it, we're
not going to stick around to give the other driver our information after we get
in an accident."

Immigrant-rights advocates say the likelihood is that unlicensed immigrants will
continue to drive, forgoing insurance, vehicle registration renewals and smog
checks.

The lack of insurance could be particularly costly, since the typical California
driver already is left with an average of $150 extra in insurance premiums every
year to cover uninsured drivers, according to insurance company and Department
of Motor Vehicle estimates.

Most insurance companies require a license to issue coverage, so many
undocumented workers would not be eligible.

The new forfeiture law -- and the pre-existing law barring the undocumented from
getting driver's licenses -- puts illegal entrants in "a real dilemma," said
Supervising Deputy District Attorney Richard Beard, who is helping implement the
new laws in Santa Clara County.

Safety factor

But since the undocumented cannot go through the DMV, Beard said, it is best --
for the sake of traffic safety -- that they stay off the roads.

"The person who has not taken a driving test, I don't know if they could drive
safely down the road," Beard said. "I don't know if they . . . know the rules of
the road or if they are able to pass the vision test or other requirements."

Those who support the undocumented immigrants argue that the laws further
alienate a group of people already disenfranchised by racism and Proposition
187. Campos, 29, who applied for his residency this month after being in
California seven years, said he hopes he can get a license soon.

After getting smacked with four tickets for driving without a license --
including one for $405 four months ago -- the father of two said he is looking
forward to the day he can drive legally with insurance.

"All we want is a chance to work here so our children can have a better future,"
the Mexican immigrant said, standing next to his beat-up 1976 Plymouth. "We
don't want to be outlaws. Why are people so hard on us?"

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 7, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON PLEDGES $1 BILLION TO TIGHTEN BORDER WANTS CROSSING FEE, NATIONAL DATA
BASE

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: Washington


President Clinton said Monday he wants to spend an extra $1 billion to
strengthen U.S. borders, formally embracing a border-crossing fee and steps
toward a national computer data base to help keep illegal immigrants out of
America's work place.

His proposed budget "provides the most comprehensive immigration plan to fight
illegal immigration that any administration has produced," Clinton said at a
White House briefing.

"It stiffens our enforcement. It increases our capacity to deport illegal
immigrants, particularly those who commit crimes. It increases our ability to
move in the work place and to identify those who are in the work place who
should not be."

In Sacramento, Republican Gov. Pete Wilson -- who has persistently criticized
Clinton for failing to fully reimburse California for immigration- related costs
-- swiftly called the plan too skimpy.

And immigration rights groups and key congressional leaders said the president's
plan to charge pedestrians $1.50 and vehicles $3 every time they cross the U.S.
border was worrisome.

"It has a certain appeal because you're collecting it at the border and spending
it to protect the border, but it's too controversial," said Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, chairman of a House immigration panel. "I think it will sink out of
sight. It's going nowhere."

The president is calling for 700 new border patrol agents and 680 Immigration
and Naturalization Service inspectors. Most of them would be assigned to the
California-Mexico border.

Clinton wants to triple deportations to more than 110,000 by increasing
detention space and boosting INS legal staff. He would double the number of INS
investigators who check to make sure employers don't hire illegal immigrants.
INS officials insisted that the president's plan to test a computerized system
to screen job applicants would not lead to a national identification card, as
some civil rights groups fear.

Currently a test program is in place at 200 businesses that use the telephone to
check the validity of job applicants' Social Security numbers. Clinton wants to
expand that to up to 1,000 businesses that would have access to improved INS
data as well as to Social Security information. The earliest a nationwide system
could be in effect is early 1997.

"We intend to target enforcement activities at the seven states with the largest
number of illegal immigrants and, within those states, at the industry and the
employers who have historically hired illegal labor," INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner said.

Meissner called the border-crossing fee "an idea whose time has come," noting
that it would raise $400 million a year once fully in effect. That money would
be used to improve border crossings, which are now often snarled for hours with
traffic.

"The congestion is not good economically," Meissner told reporters. "When people
have to wait two, three, four hours to come in either to do their shopping or
bring their goods in the country, that is not a stimulus to economic activity."

The INS budget provides for $550 million nationwide to reimburse states to jail,
educate and medically treat illegal immigrants.

"That's under-whelming," said H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for Wilson's budget
office, which is counting on $732 million in federal immigration aid to balance
Wilson's proposed 1995-'96 fiscal year budget. "What they have proposed doesn't
meet California's needs."

House Speaker Newt Gingrich has promised Wilson that the GOP-controlled Congress
will either fully reimburse states for their costs associated with illegal
immigration or relieve them of the requirement to supply those services. But
Clinton administration officials are skeptical of that promise.

"We're doing far more than any other prior administration has done," one
administration official said. "If Gov. Wilson wants to get more money, he should
go to the Republican Congress and see if he can get more out of them."

But even Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer called Clinton's immigration aid
inadequate. Boxer last fall released a congressional study that showed illegal
immigration cost California $1.4 billion yearly.

"Enforcing our borders is a duty only the federal government can perform, yet
because the federal government has neglected its responsibility, states are left
with huge costs," she said. "California and other states should receive full
reimbursement for this enormous unfunded mandate."

Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights
organization, hailed the administration's proposal to aggressively police
employers who seek to hire illegal immigrants.

"In our view that is a critically important piece that has been missing," said
Munoz, the council's deputy vice president for policy. "But we are very
concerned about the computerized verification system. This is taking the nation
down the wrong road."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 8, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONTROLLING THE BORDER HIRING MORE INSPECTORS IS FINE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 233 words


THE best part of President Clinton's new border-control initiative is what most
Americans wouldn't see or hear much about -- more inspectors busting the
industries and employers notorious for hiring illegal immigrants.

There are plenty of good, and some less convincing, ideas in the president's
plan to spend an extra $1 billion on border defenses. He'd hire more than 1,000
agents and inspectors for the woefully understaffed Border Patrol and
Immigration and Naturalization Service. But we remain cautious about
border-crossing fees and steps toward a national "catalog" of American workers,
which would list you and us too.

One good immigration inspector is worth a busload of Border Patrol agents and
scapegoating governors. More uniformed agents are needed to bring peace and
order to the border, but they can't do much to remove the economic incentives
unscrupulous employers have for recruiting illegal immigrants. Inspectors can,
by prosecuting and thus hurting employers in the wallet, or shutting them down
altogether.

Clinton's proposal for charging $1.50 per pedestrian and $3 a car to cross the
border may sound fine here, but it isn't flying in Texas or Canadian border
cities. Clinton will have to convince folks there that the fees will stay where
they're collected, like bridge tolls, and not pour into Los Angeles or San Jose.
He hasn't succeeded so far.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 9, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PART OF PROP. 187 TABLED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Enforcement of Proposition 187's ban on public higher education for illegal
immigrants was barred for at least several months Wednesday by a Superior Court
judge, who said it may violate federal law.

Judge Stuart Pollak's preliminary injunction was issued exactly three months
after the election in which voters approved the immigration initiative and a
month after a federal judge issued an injunction against most of the other
provisions.

The only part of Proposition 187 now enforceable is an increase in criminal
penalties for making, selling or using false immigration documents.

The ban on higher education affects about 14,000 illegal immigrants at community
colleges, 500 at California State University campuses and 125 at the University
of California, according to a report in October by a state Assembly committee.

Pollak, who issued a restraining order against the ban the day after the
election, said his injunction would remain in effect until a lawsuit by
immigrant-rights groups goes to trial.

The initiative, approved by 59 percent of the voters, excludes illegal
immigrants from public education, social services and non-emergency health
services.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 11, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DO ADS CROSS POLITICAL BORDER?

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 797 words


THEY can't agree on much. But both camps in the illegal immigration battle stand
on common ground when it comes to Taco Bell's new lower-fat tacos and burritos:
They hate the new "Border Lights" slogan used to push the lower- calorie food.

While nutritionists raved about the fast-food giant's new line of health-
conscious munchies this week, both immigrant-rights supporters and opponents of
illegal immigration accused Taco Bell's $75 million advertising campaign for
"Border Lights" of trivializing the emotional battle over illegal border
crossings.

Television ads for the "Border Lights" menu began airing Super Bowl Sunday. The
ads -- which are an off-shoot of Taco Bell's ongoing "Run for the Border"
campaign -- show a man and a woman in a car being hit by a blinding spotlight.
The words "Border Lights are coming . . ." appear on the screen followed by a
Taco Bell logo.

'WHAT were they thinking when they came up with this?" asked Muriel Watson, the
Bonita-based founder of an anti-illegal immigration group called "Light Up the
Border."

"What do tacos and burritos have to do with the border patrol deaths, the people
run over on the freeway, the hatred and division that we are experiencing on the
border?" she said. "I think their campaign is horrible and dumb."

'Frito Bandido' ads

The campaign has drawn additional ire from the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund, which claims the ads are a subtle attack on Hispanics.
MALDEF spokesman Robert Almanzan compared the ads to the controversial "Frito
Bandido" commercials used by Frito-Lay and denounced by Hispanics.

"The anti-immigrant sentiment that has been with us for a while is only
exacerbated by this," Almanzan said.

Taco Bell executives brushed aside the growing criticism of the slogan and
focused instead on the praise from California Health Director Kim Belshe and
consumer advocate groups.

Even the Center for Science in the Public Interest, which blasted the chain's
fatty food last year, cheered the new menu items.

"Taco Bell has found a winning formula," said Executive Director Michael
Jacobson. "They deserve real credit for being the first major fast-food chain to
offer an entire menu of health-conscious choices."

Taco Bell officials are hoping the "Border Lights" lower-calorie menu will
revolutionize the fast-food industry and generate billions in sales -- not to
mention giving customers the freedom to munch on zesty Mexican food virtually
guilt-free.

Fewer calories

The new lighter foods -- which passed reporters' taste tests in a New York news
conference Wednesday -- have around half the fat and about 20 percent fewer
calories than the standard fare.

The Light Taco Supreme, for example, has 160 calories and five grams of fat vs.
the 230 calories and 15 grams of fat in the original. The savings in fat and
calories is achieved through using low- or non-fat cheese, lean ground beef,
low-fat flour tortillas and fat-free sour cream.

The light tacos will hit the chain's 4,500 locations nationwide Feb. 20 -- with
light burritos and taco salads following six weeks later. Each new item will
cost about a dime more than the originals.

Watson, whose group has held demonstrations in which up to 600 cars shone
headlights on the U.S.-Mexican border, said she has no problem with the new menu
items but feels Taco Bell executives are trying to tap into the anti-
undocumented immigrant sentiment in the country.

"This is not a bright and cheery subject they are using to sell their tacos,"
said Watson, the widow of a former Border Patrol agent. "They have no idea the
problems that have plagued the border for years."

Taco Bell spokeswoman Janis Smith rejected suggestions that her company's
campaign was linked in any way to the anti-illegal immigrant furor.

'A state of mind'

The campaign "doesn't have anything to do with that," Smith said. "The border is
a state of mind. It's not an actual location we are referring to. It's something
that Taco Bell has used in its advertising in the past."

Taco Bell's previous "Run for the Border" and "Cross the Border" themes were the
subject of similar criticism. Immigrant-rights advocates have charged that the
advertising pokes fun at Hispanics.

But Alex Nogales, chairman of the National Hispanic Media Coalition, urged those
upset with the latest slogan to reconsider. He noted that after the passage of
Proposition 187, which would deny public services to undocumented immigrants,
Hispanics have been very sensitive to anything related to immigration or the
border.

"It doesn't appear particularly distasteful to me," he said of the slogan. "But
there is so much crap coming down on the Latino community it makes sense for the
community to react to something like this."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Drawing;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
John Martin, CEO of Taco Bell, savors a Border Light Taco Supreme at a news
conference this week.
950211 FR 18A
DRAWING: The logo just echoes prior campaigns, Taco Bell says.
950211 FR 1A 1; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 11, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE OKS TWO GOP CRIME BILLS CRACKDOWN: MEASURES WOULD JAIL CRIMINALS LONGER,
DEPORT OTHERS ON RELEASE.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: Washington


With strong bipartisan support, the House on Friday passed two more bills in the
Republicans' anti-crime package that supporters said would keep criminals from
going free.

One bill, approved 265-156, would provide extra money for states to build
prisons on the condition that they make inmates serve longer terms.

The other, passed 380-20, would crack down on illegal immigrants who commit
crimes, including deporting them promptly once they are released.

The overwhelming votes sent the two bills to the Senate and cleared the way for
House action next week on the sixth and final chapter of the GOP revision -- $10
billion in crime-fighting block grants that would wipe out funds now dedicated
to police and prevention programs.

While the first five bills have passed with relatively strong bipartisan
support, both Republicans and Democrats are preparing for a battle over the
lump-sum payments, which might include a skirmish over protection of abortion
clinics by law enforcement agencies.

The prisons bill passed Friday would provide $10.5 billion for new construction,
roughly $2.5 billion more than last year's bill, but contingent upon states'
keeping prisoners behind bars for 85 percent of their sentences, far longer than
currently.

The bill also would provide $650 million a year for the federal government to
reimburse certain states for the costs of incarcerating criminal illegal
immigrants. California has 18,000 illegal immigrants in its prison system,
costing $375 million a year.

Some of the provisions of the bill are intended to make life more unpleasant for
criminals in federal prisons. Prisoners would be denied weight- lifting
equipment and anything else that increases their fighting ability. And they
would be denied X-rated movies, cable television, computers, musical instruments
and even miniature golf.

GOP sponsors said the prisons bill would give states financial incentives to
lock up violent offenders longer. They currently serve an average of about 40
percent of their sentences, according to the House Judiciary Committee. What
Republicans dub "truth in sentencing" would require states to more than double
the actual time served, but officials would have three years to implement the
policy.

The Criminal Alien Deportation bill passed Friday would expand the list of
felonies punishable by deportation to include bribery, transporting people for
prostitution, and counterfeiting or forging immigration documents.

In addition, the bill would raise penalties for smuggling immigrants into the
United States, authorize the seizure of assets and allow the use of wiretaps in
investigating smugglers.

Earlier this week, the House passed GOP bills that mandate restitution be
ordered in federal cases, allow some warrantless searches in federal trials and
impose time limits on death-row appeals.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 6, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH CHECK VERIFYING IMMIGRANTS' WORK STATUS CAN BE QUICK, EASY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 399 words


ONE of the latest ideas for helping to curb illegal immigration borrows its
technology from the little box that cashiers use to check your credit card.

Here's how it works. After an immigrant worker accepts a job offer, the employer
punches his or her name, date of birth and immigration ID number into a machine.
Within minutes, the machine spits back "Employment authorized" or "Institute
secondary verification," which means mailing more information to the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In its first test involving nine businesses nationwide, the system turned up 236
unauthorized workers while verifying 2,220 non-citizen workers. The employers
praised it for reducing the paperwork in hiring immigrants.

The idea evolved from a questionable start. When a bipartisan federal task force
on illegal immigration proposed using Social Security numbers as the
identification -- that means yours, too -- critics were right to worry that the
system would become a national catalog of Americans. Bureaucrats would think up
all sorts of reasons to snoop.

The Clinton administration dropped the Social Security registry in favor of one
based on existing immigrant identification. Other safeguards were added:
Employers may use it only after hiring an applicant, and only for workers who
identify themselves as non-citizens.

The system isn't free of civil rights mine fields. Wrong information has a way
of getting into personal files. Just try clearing up an error with the Internal
Revenue Service or your health insurance company.

And don't expect the system to stop the hiring of undocumented workers. Many
employers simply won't use it. A farmer whose melons are ripening fast isn't
going to be picky about hired hands. Many employers know they rely on
undocumented labor.

Still, this system is about the right approach to the problem. At any one time,
immigration experts believe, there are about 1.5 million illegal workers in
America -- less than 2 percent of the civilian workforce. Stronger medicines,
like a national identity card or frequent searches in the workplace, would be
harsh, expensive, and an over-reaction to the problem.

The quick-check system should be tested on a wider scale. Worker identification
is one of the more sensible approaches to illegal immigration until the real
solution -- economic development in Mexico -- is achieved.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 14, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

187 DEALT SETBACKS IN COURT FOES CHEER RULINGS BY FEDERAL JUDGE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


A federal judge Monday rejected California's request to dismiss four class-
action lawsuits challenging Proposition 187 and refused to allow a state court
to determine whether the measure is legal.

U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer ruled without comment after a hearing.
She said she would make her reasons public in writing later this week.

"We are pleased with this decision and are ready to go to trial," said Mark
Rosenbaum, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California.

Assistant Attorney General Charlton Holland III declined comment after the
hearing.

State makes its case

In court, Holland had argued Proposition 187 is best adjudicated in a California
court because it is essentially a state law.

The measure, which was approved by 59 percent of voters in November, seeks to
deny almost all state services to illegal immigrants, including public education
and health care.

The judge in December issued a preliminary injunction barring enforcement of all
but two provisions of the measure: one that prohibits illegal immigrants from
receiving higher education and another banning the sale and use of false
immigration documents.

Education ban blocked

A state court in San Francisco later blocked the ban on higher education,
allowing illegal immigrants to attend state colleges.

Peter Schey, a lawyer for the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law,
criticized state attempts to have the legality of 187 determined in state
courts, claiming that to do so would slow the appellate process.

"(Gov.) Pete Wilson and (Attorney General) Dan Lungren both said in November
that they wanted this to move quickly to the U.S. Supreme Court for a ruling,"
Schey said. "Now (they) are doing everything they can to keep this from going to
trial in federal court."

State's 'apprehension'

Rosenbaum said the state's actions revealed its "apprehension about the legality
of this ill-conceived statute."

Pfaelzer has set a Sept. 5 trial date. Attorneys for the plaintiffs said they
expect a three- to four-week trial.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 21, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS STAFFING UNDERMINES MISSION BORDER PATROL SAYS IT HAS TOO FEW AGENTS TO CURB
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION, EVEN BY CRIMINALS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1667 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN


The Northern California station of the U.S. Border Patrol gets about five calls
a day concerning suspected illegal immigrants. But 95 percent of the time, even
when the tips sound genuine, the callers are thanked -- and their complaints are
ignored.

"We've got the expertise," said Tom Madden, one of two agents in an office that
has responsibility for 10 counties. "We just don't have the people to do the
job."

Recent publicity about the Border Patrol in San Diego adding 350 agents and
millions of dollars in high-tech wizardry portrays an agency flush with
resources. But as the staffing level in Madden's office makes clear, nothing
could be further from the truth.

Madden and his partner, Paul Demers, are responsible for an area stretching from
Santa Clara County to Del Norte County, along the Oregon border. They work out
of a small office in Camp Parks, an Army Reserve base near the intersection of
interstates 680 and 580 in Dublin.

Typewriters and carbon paper lend a '50s flavor to the place. They have no
secretaries, no clerks.

"We're it," said the burly, friendly Madden. "We do it all."

But what the Border Patrol in the interior can't do is daunting. It can't run an
effective program aimed at fining employers who knowingly break the law and hire
illegal immigrants. It can't find the 2 million foreigners who have overstayed
their visas. It can't keep thousands of illegal immigrants who commit crimes
each year from slipping through its fingers.

More agents wanted

Madden and Demers are part of a Border Patrol sector that covers 52 counties in
California plus 11 in Nevada. It does that with only 52 agents, three
investigators and 25 detention officers.

"There's no way I can handle 52 (California) counties with 52 agents," said
William Bonnette, the Livermore sector chief.

In contrast with the Dublin office, the Salinas station is one of the best-
staffed interior Border Patrol offices in the state, largely because the area
has so many undocumented agricultural workers. But even it covers Monterey,
Santa Cruz and San Benito counties with just a supervisor, two agents, one
detention officer and a secretary.

"To respond to all of the complaints there, we'd need 30 agents," Bonnette said.

Border Patrol jurisdictions overlap with those of its parent agency, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and agents from both organizations work
together. But INS resources are just as thin.

Cuts in staffing

In 1988, the INS San Francisco district's investigations branch had 150
employees. Now it has 95 -- 65 of them agents -- to cover 49 California counties
and do everything from auditing employers' hiring records to deporting criminal
immigrants.

Said Joseph Brandon, the district's investigations chief, "I'm going to need a
minimum of 55 positions just to get back to where we were" seven years ago.

Because of the nation's newfound interest in immigration issues, the INS budget
jumped 25 percent from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995. But most of the money went
toward automation and border enforcement -- mostly along the border, Brandon
said.

For next fiscal year, the Clinton administration has recommended increasing the
INS budget another 25 percent, to $2.6 billion. Bonnette said he's been told
1996 will be "the year of the interior."

Whether that actually happens depends on how much money Congress gives the INS
and whether top immigration officials decide to shore up the border before
focusing on the interior. Critics are saying Border Patrol operations in San
Diego and El Paso, Texas, have simply shifted the traffic to mountains east of
San Diego and to Arizona's deserts.

Criminals are priority

INS officials in the interior vigorously defend their decision not to respond to
most complaints, saying it makes sense to go after criminal immigrants first.

One in four inmates in California's prisons and county jails are undocumented,
corrections officials say. Until recently, authorities made little effort to
ensure criminal illegals were deported once they served their sentences.

That started changing about a year ago after the U.S. Justice Department began
trying to bring the situation under control. Lawyers were added in U.S. attorney
offices, mostly in Southwest border areas, to prosecute the most egregious
cases. But the INS and Border Patrol often had to shift scant resources from
other hard-pressed programs.

Madden and Demers, both 44, now spend three-quarters of their working hours on
the criminal immigrant problem.

They are responsible for seven county jail systems but have the time to
personally interview inmates in only one -- Santa Clara County. Madden and
Demers try to talk with every foreign-born prisoner in the county jail system to
determine whether they are in the United States illegally.

But, Madden admits, some criminal immigrants incarcerated in Santa Clara County
fall through the cracks because they complete their sentences before interviews
are conducted.

Mendocino County inmates are interviewed regularly, mostly over the telephone.
In the other five counties, the Border Patrol depends on tips from local
jailers, said Madden, who's been with the patrol for 17 years.

When Madden and Demers find inmates who are illegal immigrants, they put an
"immigration hold" on them so they can be deported once they have served their
time. But people who have been deported before and are "aggravated felons" --
previously convicted of drug sales or violent crimes -- usually don't get off so
easily. Most are prosecuted for re-entering the country. Such people now
routinely face federal prison terms of eight or nine years.

Demers spent the better part of a day documenting the criminal history of one of
them, Hernan Cabrera-Jimenez, 32, while Madden went to pick him up in the
Elmwood Rehabilitation Center in Milpitas. Cabrera-Jimenez has been convicted of
a string of offenses over a decade, ranging from drug sales to manslaughter.

But Madden and Bonnette admit there are many inmates like Cabrera-Jimenez they
simply don't know about. They'll be released onto California's streets after
their terms are up.

"It's really frustrating," Bonnette said, particularly for agents who must tell
police, sheriff's deputies and jail authorities that they can't respond to their
tips -- let alone tips from the public, even ones that sound genuine.

To do the job right, Bonnette said, would mean interviewing all foreign- born
residents after they're booked, not just after they're convicted. That's because
some people are in county jails for only a few days or never come back after
posting bond.

Demers, a 19-year veteran, said he enjoys the freedom and authority of a
two-person operation. But to run the office effectively "24 hours a day, we'd
need a minimum of 15 people working here," he said.

The San Jose office of the INS has four special agents and covers four counties:
Santa Clara, Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito. Among other things, the agents
are responsible for finding illegal immigrants in Soledad Prison and auditing
employers to make sure they're following immigration laws.

One investigator works on document fraud, another on employer sanctions and the
other two on the criminal alien program, said Tim Murray, the supervisory agent
in San Jose. The agent doing employer sanctions focuses strictly on Santa Clara
County, which alone has more than 60,000 businesses.

"I could easily use 30 investigators," said Bob Ackerman, head of the office,
which mostly provides naturalization services. "We get all kinds of leads but
don't have the resources to follow up on them."

Last September, the INS had 36,000 leads on possible violations it was unable to
pursue, reported the U.S. General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of
Congress.

Because of lean staffing, many INS officials were openly critical of Proposition
187, the November initiative that, if upheld by the courts, would require
schools and most public agencies to report suspected illegal immigrants. INS
officials argued they didn't want to waste their time hunting down undocumented
schoolchildren when there are thousands of criminal immigrants who aren't being
detected.

But many INS officials now concede the overwhelming vote for the measure finally
got the nation's -- and perhaps legislators' -- attention about the agency's
lack of people and equipment.

Said Ron Rogers, a spokesman for the INS western regional office in Laguna
Niguel: "This is our day in the sun."

ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION RESOURCES

Here's a brief look at U.S. government resources in Northern California aimed at
fighting illegal immigration.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

(box)What it does: The INS is the United States' main immigration agency. One
branch investigates individuals and businesses suspected of breaking immigration
laws and does routine audits of employment records. It also monitors state and
federal prisons and eight county jail systems in the Bay Area.

(box)Area: District office in San Francisco covers 49 California counties, from
Kern County to the Oregon border. Sub-offices are in San Jose, Fresno and
Sacramento.

(box)Staffing: Investigation division has 95 employees, down from 150 in 1988.
Of those, 65 are agents.

U.S. Border Patrol

(box)What it does: The uniformed enforcement agency within the INS, it has some
overlapping functions with the investigation branch. The term "border" is
somewhat misleading, since the majority of the sectors are in the interior.
Principal mission is to maintain control of international boundaries between
official points of entry, including narcotics interdiction. In California, it is
responsible for monitoring most county jails.

(box)Area covered: Livermore sector covers 52 of California's 58 counties and 11
of Nevada's 16 counties.

(box)Staffing: 52 agents, three investigators and 25 detention officers.

Sources: U.S. General Accounting Office, INS, Border Patrol

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information end of article

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Map;
MAP: CARL NEIBURGER -- MERCURY NEWS
Two Agents' Terrority
Sources: Border Patrol, California Department of Finance, California Political
Almanac
950321 FR 12A 2
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Tom Madden, front, and Paul Demers are responsible for 10 counties.
950321 FR 12A 1
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Border Patrol agent Tom Madden takes a criminal illegal immigrant into custody
in Santa Clara County.
950321 FR 1A 4; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 7, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS TOUTS LATEST DROP IN ILLEGAL CROSSINGS BUT DEBATE LINGERS ON ARRESTS'
EFFECTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Each month for the last six, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
quoted the latest figures on the number of illegal immigrants arrested trying to
enter the United States.

And with each announcement, it has suggested not only that Operation Gatekeeper,
its crackdown along the U.S.-Mexico border near San Diego, is deterring illegal
crossers, but also that it is affecting immigration flow. The scene was repeated
Thursday, as the agency delivered its six-month evaluation of Gatekeeper.

But the INS and analysts are still trying to answer a lingering question: How
much can one divine about immigration patterns by looking at arrest records?

In kicking off the border crackdown in October, the INS predicted that arrests
would drop in San Diego and rise to the east. That appears to have happened.

For example, INS San Diego Sector Chief Johnny Williams said that in March,
"entries (along the busiest section of the border) decreased by 50 percent,"
while since October, "entries have been reduced by 40 percent."

Some analysts argue that seasonal fluctuations -- the first three months of the
year are always the busiest and the last three the slowest -- economic
variations and prices charged by immigrant smugglers cause changes in border
crossing patterns.

To discover more about repeat offenders, the INS has begun fingerprinting and
photographing illegal immigrants who are caught.

On Thursday, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner cited secondary indicators --
including interviews with illegal immigrants -- as further proof that Gatekeeper
is having an effect.

She also mentioned the INS' attempt to look into crime rates and talk with
community groups -- both of which she hopes will show more about immigration
patterns.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: INS chief Doris Meissner speaks to reporters in San Diego about the
progress of Operation Gatekeeper.
950407 CA 3B

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 11, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STEALING FROM AMERICANS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CROWD CLASSROOMS, SAP SCHOOL FUNDS

BYLINE: ELTON GALLEGLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 597 words


WHEN ILLEGAL immigrants sit down in public school classrooms, the desks,
textbooks and blackboards in effect become stolen property -- stolen from the
students rightfully entitled to these resources.

That is why I have introduced legislation to allow each state to decide for
itself whether to provide those who have entered this country illegally with the
same public education benefits as U.S. citizens and legal immigrants.

This legislation does not pertain to children born here to parents who are
illegal immigrants. Under our Constitution, these children are U.S. citizens at
birth and, as such, are entitled to a public education. Only those who have
physically entered this country illegally would be subject to the terms of this
bill. The time has long since passed when we can turn a blind eye to the effect
that this group is having on our public schools.

California alone spends $1.7 billion a year to educate illegal immigrants. New
York spends $634 million; Florida, $424 million; Texas, $419 million, and the
list goes on and on.

Those with no legal right to even be present in this country are crowding
classrooms, consuming supplies and compromising the quality of education
provided to the children for whom our schools were created.

The foundation for all of this inequity can be traced back to the Supreme
Court's Plyler vs. Doe decision in 1982. In this oft-cited case, the court ruled
5-4 that under the equal protection clause of the Constitution, even those
individuals who had violated federal law by entering this country were entitled
to a free public education.

Much more rarely mentioned is one element of the court's majority opinion,
written by Justice William J. Brennan Jr., in which he noted that Congress had
failed to prevent illegal immigrants from occupying public schools.

"Faced with an equal protection challenge respecting the treatment of aliens,"
Brennan wrote, "we agree that the courts must be attentive to congressional
policy; the exercise of congressional power might well affect the state's
prerogatives to afford differential treatment to a particular class of aliens.
But we are unable to find in the congressional immigration scheme any statement
of policy that might weigh significantly in arriving at an equal protection
balance concerning the state's authority to deprive these children of an
education."

It is my intention to take Justice Brennan up on his invitation to enact the
"congressional policy" that would allow the states to decide whether to remove
from their schools those who, under the law, should be removed from this
country.

Some will argue that we have a responsibility to educate this group, regardless
of their legal status, simply because they are here. My response would be that
an act of geography is not the same as an act of jurisprudence. Just because
someone has succeeded in breaking into your house, that does not entitle him to
a seat by the fireplace, a warm meal and a good night's sleep. Only in the case
of illegal immigration, it seems, is illegality so rewarded, condoned and
encouraged.

The promise of a free education is only one of the magnets we have created to
encourage people to violate our borders. It should be clear that any solution to
our immigration crisis must include an elimination of these incentives. Allowing
states to make their own decisions on education serves this purpose.

Illegal immigrants belong back in their countries of origin, and we should do
everything possible to encourage them to embrace that simple truth.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, is chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Task
Force on Immigration Reform. He wrote this article for the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARBARA CUMMINGS -- LOS ANGELES TIMES
Immigrants running through a dollar
950411 ED 7B 1

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              April 13, 1995 Thursday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

EX-MEMBER OF GANG GETS RESIDENT STATUS IMMIGRATION: A JUDGE REWARDS A MAN WHO
TURNED HIS LIFE AROUND.

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 474 words


Marciano Cruz, a former gang member and illegal immigrant who won wide praise
from Santa Cruz community leaders for his work as a city parks employee
counseling children to avoid drugs and gangs, was granted permanent residency
status Wednesday by a federal judge.

The ruling ends a two-year legal struggle that could have resulted in Cruz being
deported to Mexico.

In an 11-page ruling, Immigration Judge Bette Kane Stockton of San Francisco
called Cruz, 31, "a truly unique individual who has shown that a person can
change for the better and actually make a difference in many people's lives even
without formal education or training."

Stockton noted that 113 people wrote letters to the court supporting Cruz,
including U.S. Rep. Sam Farr, D-Monterey, former Santa Cruz Mayor Scott Kennedy
and members of churches, schools and community groups.

Cruz was born in Mexico and first surreptitiously crossed the border into the
United States in 1980. He became involved in gangs and served time in prison for
a 1986 burglary conviction. He was deported several times but re- entered the
country.

Cruz married and became a father, turning his life around by using his
experiences to warn children about the pitfalls of drugs and crime.

In June 1990, Cruz started working part time as a senior playground leader with
the Santa Cruz Parks and Recreation Department, overseeing the after- school
Kids Klub program in Beach Flats for children 6 to 12.

He resigned in March 1993 after officials at the state Employment Development
Department notified Santa Cruz City Hall that Cruz's temporary visa had expired.

The judge's ruling Wednesday cited Cruz's efforts on behalf of the Beach Flats,
a Santa Cruz neighborhood plagued by drugs, crime and poverty.

It noted Cruz had worked in graffiti removal programs, in a local food pantry,
speaking at high schools, creating a community garden and volunteering as a
coach in the Beach Flats Soccer League.

"He made mistakes. He's paid his price," said Jim Lang, Santa Cruz city parks
director. "He's come out a changed person. He's trying to make the community a
better place to live now."

Lang said Cruz is welcome to have his job back if he wants it. Several people
who wanted him deported did not show up at court hearings, according to the
judge's ruling. Cruz could not be reached for comment Wednesday.

Cruz, who is married to a U.S. citizen and has a child, is now legally
classified as a resident alien, which allows him to live in the United States
indefinitely. If he wishes to become a U.S. citizen, he would have to apply
through the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"We're very pleased," said attorney Byron Park of San Francisco, who helped
represent Cruz with Santa Cruz attorney Michael Mehr. "This shows that the
Department of Justice has a heart."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 13, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILY SAYS BORDER PATROL TRACKING THEM, TOO

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: Campo


Tiny electronic sensors designed to detect illegal immigrants also pick up the
movements of the Mills family, whose members say they are constantly harassed by
Border Patrol agents.

The family's 28-acre ranch is 30 feet from the Mexico border.

Steve and Elizabeth Mills blame the harassment on the Border Patrol's crackdown
on illegal immigration, Operation Gatekeeper. More than 300 extra agents have
been stationed along the border since the operation started six months ago.

"In the past few months, we've been harassed constantly," Steve Mills said.
"Every time we leave our property, we've been stopped and searched."

The problems culminated March 28 when Steve Mills and his 17-year-old son,
Gabriel, were arrested during an altercation with sheriff's deputies and border
agents.

Patrol spokesman Marco Ramirez denied that large numbers of extra agents have
been stationed in Campo under Operation Gatekeeper. Ramirez said that if family
members have been searched frequently, it is because their ranch straddles a
known drug-smuggling route.

"This may be the price they pay for living so close to the border," Ramirez
said.

In the March 28 incident, Gabriel was booked into the county's Juvenile Hall and
released. Steve Mills was booked into county jail, but charges will not be
brought against him because of insufficient evidence, the district attorney's
office said Wednesday.

Steve Mills said he first refused to submit to a search March 21. "I said, 'If
you want to search my car, you show me a warrant,' " he said.

Instead, he contended, the agent pointed a loaded and cocked pistol at his chest
and ordered him to comply. Mills said he tried to file a complaint but another
agent refused to take it.

The Millses moved to the land along the border to escape the problems of urban
life six years ago, but now they're having second thoughts.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Steve and Elizabeth Mills and their son, Gabriel, left, stand at a buffer zone
separating their 28-acre ranch in Campo from Mexico.
950413 CA 3B 4

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 May 2, 1995 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

WOMEN SENTENCED FOR DEFRAUDING INS

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 175 words


A Fremont woman has been sentenced in federal court to 2 1/2 years in prison for
running an operation that authorities say provided phony documents for illegal
immigrants. Emma Rosella D'Fiandra, 50, a Peruvian citizen, pleaded guilty in
January to conspiring to defraud the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
and two counts of providing counterfeit residency and social security cards. She
was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Charles Legge in San Francisco on Friday.
Prosecutors said the INS estimates that D'Fiandra, working from offices in
Fremont, filed at least 300 and possibly as many as 1,200 bogus amnesty
applications. Prosecutors said D'Fiandra created and backdated documents such as
receipts for phony jobs, false airline tickets and fictitious income tax returns
and sometimes put the materials in a microwave oven to make them appear older.
The fraudulent applications cost her clients an average of $3,500 and sometimes
as much as $15,000. D'Fiandra will be deported to Peru after she completes her
sentence.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 5, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WORKER DISCLOSURE DELIGHTS OPPONENTS WILSON TRIES TO HEAD OFF CRITICISM

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, SCOTT THURM AND THOMAS FARRAGHER -, Mercury News
Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1108 words


Gov. Pete Wilson struggled Thursday to preserve one of the most potent issues of
his presidential campaign following his admission that he and his wife once
employed an illegal immigrant and failed to pay her Social Security taxes.

Some analysts said Wilson, who deftly fueled and exploited concern about illegal
immigration in winning re-election last year, would be unaffected by the
disclosure.

"It's a mosquito on an elephant's butt," said Mary Matalin, political director
of former President Bush's 1992 campaign.

But others said the hiring of Josefina Klag in 1978 -- allegedly without
Wilson's knowledge -- raises the politically damaging issue of hypocrisy. Having
benefited from the labor of an illegal immigrant, some said, Wilson will not so
easily scale moral heights.

"Every time Wilson talks about illegal immigration, this experience is going to
spring to mind," said CNN analyst Bill Schneider. "It takes one of his best
issues away from him."

Wilson's GOP political adversaries delighted in the governor's discomfort. Aides
to Sens. Bob Dole of Kansas and Phil Gramm of Texas, privately gleeful, declined
to comment publicly. But Mike Murphy, senior adviser to former Tennessee Gov.
Lamar Alexander, said it added to "the Wilson credibility gap." "Pete's had a
record of raising taxes; now he's against them," Murphy said. "He's got a
liberal gun control record; now he's trying to get tough on crime. He said he
wasn't going to run for president; now he's running. And now we find there's
some confusion about his position on undocumented workers."

Craig Fuller, Wilson's campaign chairman, seemed to have such comments in mind
in a statement released to reporters.

Seeking political gain

"The woods are full of politicians who try to bury things like this, but
characteristically, Pete Wilson has taken it head-on," Fuller said. "Although we
fully expect some people to continue to try to exploit this incident for their
own political purposes, we believe that it will have no lasting effect on our
campaign's success."

Hispanic civil rights and pro-immigration groups suggested otherwise.

"We've been saying this gentleman's been a hypocrite for two years now," said
Lisa Navarrete, a spokeswoman for the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights groups. "If anybody needed further proof, this is it. Hopefully,
people will take a good, hard look at Pete Wilson's history of opportunism."

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a coalition
of pro-immigration organizations, laughed out loud at Wilson's predicament.

"He rescued his political career by blaming illegal immigrants for our
problems," Sharry said. "Now we find out that they can work for his wife, they
can work for his agribusiness buddies, but, damn it, they better not send their
kids to school or try to get treated at health clinics."

In Florida, an important primary election state where immigration is a hot
issue, GOP Chairman Tom Slade said the disclosure will put Wilson on the
defensive. "By the time he gets through explaining why he should not be
condemned for this situation, his time will be up," he said.

But GOP strategist Ed Rollins said the disclosure should not prevent Wilson from
hammering away at illegal immigration. "Obviously it's an embarrassing story,
but it's still very early. There aren't a lot of people paying attention," he
said. "It doesn't hurt him from using the issue. He'd be foolish to back away."

Know-nothing defense

Meanwhile, Wilson's legal advisers outlined their defense: Wilson knew nothing,
and in any case, he did nothing illegal.

Specifically, Wilson didn't know his wife had hired a housekeeper, didn't know
Klag was in the country illegally and didn't know his wife wasn't paying the
required taxes.

"The governor has no recollection there was a household employee," said a legal
adviser to Wilson, who insisted on not being further identified. "He didn't know
whether they had one (a housekeeper) or not."

The adviser, speaking with reporters on a telephone conference call, did little
to clarify how this could have been so, except to cite Wilson's long hours as
mayor of San Diego.

Nor did the adviser clear up an inconsistency between Wilson's contention that
he didn't know whether he had a maid at all and his ex-wife Betty Hosie's
statement the day before that Wilson "rarely ever saw" Klag.

Hosie has been unwilling to elaborate on her statement, declining to talk to a
Mercury News reporter at her La Jolla home.

As recently as last Oct. 29, Wilson told reporters: "I have never hired an
illegal immigrant, certainly not knowingly."

Wilson's aides said Klag's employment had escaped notice until now because they
had checked the governor's household help only since 1986, when federal law
first required employers to ask job-seekers for proof of legal residency.

The legal adviser said Wilson did not learn of Klag's employment, the failure to
pay required taxes or her illegal status until after Hosie called the governor's
office March 29.

Bob Mulholland, political adviser to the California Democratic Party, found
Wilson's contention unbelievable. "You can't have a woman serving you huevos
rancheros for several years and be thinking she's a campaign volunteer."

Klag's status unknown

Despite the revelations, much about Klag's employment and legal status remains
unknown.

Klag told Wilson's intermediaries that she was in the United States illegally
when the Wilsons hired her in 1978, and that she obtained legal resident status
a year later.

But the legal adviser said Klag has been unwilling to provide her "green card"
or Social Security number and Wilson's aides have been unable to independently
verify her claims.

Klag, 52, could not be located Thursday. According to Wilson's adviser, she now
lives in Tijuana, Mexico. She has no phone listing in either San Diego or
Tijuana.

In La Jolla, a woman for whom Klag still works said Thursday, "Josefina doesn't
want to be bothered. She's nervous."

Wilson and his wife separated in 1981; their divorce became final in 1983. Hosie
continued to employ Klag one day a week until she remarried in 1992.

Wilson legal adviser John Davies estimated in a memo to the governor Wednesday
that Wilson and Hosie owe about $3,000 in taxes, penalties and interest for not
paying Klag's Social Security contribution from 1978 to 1981. Most of that is
interest: The taxes total only about $500.

The legal adviser interviewed Thursday said the money would be paid as soon as
Klag's work history could be reconstructed and the proper forms filled out.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Pete Wilson reportedly did not know his wife at that time, Betty, had hired
an illegal immigrant. The two are shown in a 1975 photo.
950505 FR 20A
PHOTO: Wilson
950505 FR 1A 4; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 5, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE OLD WILSON AS EMPLOYER OF AN ILLEGAL, HE HAD THE BETTER POSITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 342 words


NOW Pete Wilson joins the club for recovering employers of illegal immigrants.

Luckily for him, so many rocks have been tossed in this pond that new ripples
stand out less.

The revelation hardly redounds to Wilson's credit, given his current crusade
against illegal immigrants. But for Californians, it adds only incrementally to
the picture of a politician who has turned dramatically against illegal
immigration in recent years, tracking shifts in public opinion. It may have
greater effect nationally.

Wilson didn't have all that much to do with the employment of a housekeeper in
1978 or '79. His first wife, from whom he was separated in 1981 and later
divorced, made the decision and the payments, they both say.

Unknowingly hiring an illegal wasn't illegal then, although the Wilsons also
failed to pay Social Security and other employment taxes. Wilson says those
bills will be made good.

At the time, even the knowing employment of an undocumented immigrant would not
have been glaringly at odds with Wilson's public positions. As mayor of San
Diego in 1981, Wilson said undocumented immigrants need help because "they pay
taxes like everyone else." In 1982 he said, "There's just no question our
economy depends very heavily on Mexican nationals."

As a U.S. senator later in the 1980s, Wilson worked to legalize Mexicans who had
slipped into the country to work for California agribusiness.

The overwhelming likelihood is that the Wilsons hired an illegal immigrant for
the same reason lots of Californians have. They weren't smuggling cheap labor
into the country. They weren't exploiting some vulnerable person.

They were hiring a housekeeper through a network of friends, an informal
employment market full of legal and illegal immigrants seeking jobs as
housekeepers or gardeners. Who checks documents? Who's going to ask for a birth
certificate before hiring someone to vacuum the rug?

Between Pete Wilson, immigrant employer, and Pete Wilson, immigration cop, we
think he had the better position in the old days.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 7, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AS THEY SEE IT

BYLINE: QUOTES ARE COMPILED BY MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITERS AND FROM, MERCURY NEWS
WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 305 words

"It's a mosquito on an elephant's butt. '

-- MARY MATALAN, GOP strategist, after it was disclosed that Gov. Pete Wilson
and his wife once employed an illegal immigrant and failed to pay her Social
Security taxes.

'He (Pete Wilson) rescued his political career by blaming illegal immigrants for
our problems. Now we find out that they can work for his wife, they can work for
his agribusiness buddies, but, damn it, they better not send their kids to
school or try to get treated at health clinics. '

-- FRANK SHARRY, National Immigration Forum.
'We thought about doing 'I'll Be Home for Christmas,' But we didn't want to get
their hopes up. '

-- ELAINA NEWPORT, producer of Washington's Capitol Steps, which performed a
skit for the O.J. Simpson jury.
'I hope he'll become the Jack Kerouac of crime. '

-- JOAN MILLER, on her son, Jed Miller, who became the first Santa Clara County
felon charged under the state's "three strikes, you're out" law. Miller, a
chronic thief, was sentenced to 25 years to life.
'You don't have to be dead to be in purgatory. '

-- MARY ANN VECCHIO GILLIUM, who was a 14-year-old runaway, when her grief-
stricken image was captured in a prize-winning photograph as she kneeled over
the body of Jeffrey Miller; speaking at Kent State.
'It's like parking an aircraft carrier. But when you change lanes on the
freeway, it's like Moses parting the Red Sea. '

-- A driver after renting a Humvee, the massive four-wheeler beloved by
celebrities and soldiers alike, which is now a rental rage for car-obsessed
Californians.
'I have been attacked by Rush Limbaugh on the air, an experience somewhat akin
to being gummed by a newt. It doesn't actually hurt, but it leaves you with
slimy stuff on your ankle. '

-- MOLLY IVINS, attacking Rush Limbaugh, in an article for Mother Jones.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings (3);
DRAWING: DON WRIGHT -- PALM BEACH POST
cartoon
950507 PE 2F 1
DRAWING: TED RALL -- CHRONICLE FEATURES
950507 PE 2F 5
DRAWING: TONY AUTH -- PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER
950507 PE 2F 3

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 7, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 APPEAL ON FAST TRACK FEDERAL COURT SAYS IT WILL RULE PROMPTLY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


A federal appeals court has agreed to rule quickly on a constitutional challenge
to Proposition 187, and supporters of the anti-illegal immigrant measure hailed
the decision as a victory.

Gov. Pete Wilson had asked the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for an
expedited ruling after a Los Angeles federal judge barred enforcement of the
law, approved by 59 percent of California voters in the November election.

Matt Ross, spokesman for Attorney General Dan Lungren, noted the appeals court
also had ruled against "friend of the court" briefs from organizations other
than those filing the original lawsuit.

He said that should further streamline the process.

The court did not announce when it would rule or whether it would allow oral
arguments in the case, but it set June 15 as the deadline for briefs.

If the 9th Circuit lifts a judge's preliminary injunction against the successful
ballot measure, the law banning undocumented immigrants from receiving most
social services could take effect immediately.

The law is stayed by an injunction issued in December by U.S. District Judge
Mariana Pfaelzer. She acted after the American Civil Liberties Union and other
organizations challenged Proposition 187 as unconstitutional.

Her ruling stayed the law until a planned fall trial on the issue.

The federal appeals panel must decide whether Pfaelzer exercised improper
discretion or relied on a mistaken legal premise when issuing the injunction.
The ACLU had argued that the appeals court should wait to act until after the
trial.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 13, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 BACKERS SEEK CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 806 words


The grass-roots group that spearheaded Proposition 187 is about to launch a new
initiative aimed in part at amending the federal Constitution to deny
citizenship to U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants.

Ron Prince, chairman of the Save Our State Committee in Orange County, said
Friday that his group plans to submit "SOS II" to state officials within the
next few weeks. The group hopes to gather more than the required 433,269
signatures during the summer to get it on the November 1996 ballot.

The first "SOS," designed to cut off most public benefits to illegal immigrants,
passed overwhelmingly last November after one of the most incendiary initiative
battles in California history. The new initiative, then, is certain to resurrect
some of the acrimony of the Proposition 187 campaign -- particularly since
Prince's group is aiming for the same ballot on which a white-hot initiative
designed to end affirmative action is expected to appear. The sequel to
Proposition 187 would be unusual because it would use the state initiative
process to try to change the U.S. Constitution -- specifically, the 14th
Amendment, which provides that "all persons born or naturalized in the United
States . . . are citizens of the United States."

California voters cannot by themselves alter the U.S. Constitution. But Prince
and his committee hope to build grass-roots movements throughout the country to
get other states to take similar actions through initiatives or legislation. If
34 of the states direct Congress to propose the amendment and 38 state
legislatures ratify it, he said, then it would become part of the Constitution.
Prince said his wide-ranging initiative would attempt to draw a clear
distinction between legal and illegal immigrants. It would, among other things,
deny further amnesty to illegal immigrants, prohibit voting by non- citizens --
now permitted in some school board elections -- and allow the state to sue the
federal government if it doesn't stop "border invasions."

Proponents who would deny citizenship to children of undocumented mothers argue
that the 14th Amendment was adopted to eliminate categorizing black slaves as
non-persons -- and was never intended to apply to the offspring of illegal
immigrants.

Opponents of the first SOS measure immediately attacked its sequel.

"It is part of this overarching, mean-spirited xenophobia which is dictating a
lot of proposals," said Elaine Elinson of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Northern California. "It's unfair, unjust, and we certainly would fight against
it."

Said Mike Garcia, president of Service Employees International Union Local 1877
in San Jose: "This is just another racist assault on immigrants and the children
of immigrants. I guess people just have to find somebody to hate.'

But Prince maintained that SOS II would be just as popular as the original.
"Most people in the (Proposition) 187 movement feel the way most people in the
United States feel," he said. "They don't agree with the open-border advocates
that any kind of immigration control is racist."

Sally Vaughn, spokeswoman for the Cupertino-based United Citizens for
Immigration Control, said she hadn't heard of the initiative but that Prince
could count on her group's support.

"We are so disgusted that our vote on (Proposition) 187 was hijacked by these
renegades," she said, alluding to foes of the measure who have tied up the
initiative in court.

Although her group's main goal of late has been to make sure that Proposition
187 is implemented, many members also believe that it's ridiculous to reward
mothers who illegally cross the border just to give birth.

"We're just giving our citizenship away," she said. "We're committing national
suicide."

Gerald Gunther, a Stanford University law professor who is one of the nation's
top constitutional law experts, said that Prince is correct that 34 states can
direct Congress in regard to a constitutional amendment. But, Gunther said, the
process the SOS committee is proposing would entail a constitutional convention.
And, Gunther said, he and most other experts believe that there would be no way
to limit such a convention to a single topic such as immigration.

"It a legitimate but very worrisome route," Gunther said, noting that interest
groups could use the convention to discuss amendments on abortion, busing,
affirmative action or school prayer.

Said Robert Rubin of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San Francisco:
"Whatever facial appeal the initiative might have to some people, they ought to
think through its actual implications. Are we going to have to transform
maternity wards into immigration checkpoints? How do we know that the child's
father is not a U.S. citizen? Will be have to do DNA testing?

"There's all sorts of practical difficulties."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 23, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO STEP UP DEPORTATION OF CRIMINALS PILOT PROGRAM AIMED AT EASING JAILS'
ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT BURDEN

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


In front of the nation's largest county jail, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno
on Monday announced a pilot program to increase the number of criminal illegal
immigrants deported after their release.

"Our prisons and jails are crowded with criminal aliens, and each represents a
drain on our resources and a threat to our community," Reno said at a news
conference outside the Men's Central Jail.

Starting June 1, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officers will staff
the county jail around the clock to intercept the release of criminals who are
foreign-born and undocumented.

The one-month federally funded program is expected to result in the deportation
of 1,500 illegal immigrants, Reno said.

"In the past, many of these aliens would have been released directly back onto
the street," she said.

As it stands, INS officers visit the county jail 10 days a month and deport
about 300 to 400 illegal immigrants, said Sheriff Sherman Block, whose
department runs the jail.

Up to 20 percent of the county jail system's 19,000 inmates are undocumented
immigrants, Block said. Men's Central alone held more than 6,700 prisoners
Monday.

If the project "is as successful as we expect, we plan to provide the necessary
resources to keep it going," Reno said.

In announcing the Clinton administration's latest effort to curb illegal
immigration, Reno brings the project into a state where the issue has been hotly
debated.

In November, California voters passed Proposition 187. The measure, being
challenged in the courts, would deny most health, education and other benefits
to illegal immigrants.

Ron Prince, co-author of the measure, said he welcomed the pilot program, but he
called it "very, very small. It will affect only a tiny fraction of the number
of illegal aliens who are on the street."

Under the pilot project, 46 INS agents will detain illegal immigrants upon
release from jail. Those inmates will then be remanded to federal custody and
taken to a special immigration court set up downtown specifically for this
project, Reno said.

"After they receive their final orders, these criminals will be promptly
deported, in most cases on the same day," Reno said.

California also is getting funds to expand a program that has existed in state
prisons since 1988. Under the Institutional Hearing Program, criminal illegal
immigrants have been undergoing their deportation hearings while serving their
sentence instead of at the end of the sentence.

"This has saved time, detention space and taxpayer dollars," INS Commissioner
Doris Meissner said.

However, she said half of the criminal illegal immigrants are slipping through
the cracks because of resource limitations. The INS in December approved an
"enhanced" program for California that will seek to deport all illegal criminals
in the state correctional system, Meissner said.

Enhanced IHP programs are also in the works in Florida, New York, Illinois and
Texas.

States have long sought federal help for incarcerating illegal immigrants. Last
year, both California and Florida filed lawsuits against the federal government
seeking millions of dollars in reimbursement for the costs of imprisoning
illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Attorney General Janet Reno announces program as she appears with District
Attorney Gil Garcetti.
950523 CA 3B 1

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 1, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS LOSE DRIVER'S LICENSE RULING SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER REQUIRED,
APPEALS COURT SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Illegal immigrants are ineligible for California driver's licenses, according to
a ruling from a state appeals court.

The ruling by the 1st District Court of Appeal, made public Wednesday, was based
on a 1992 state law requiring all applicants for driver's licenses and
identification cards to give their Social Security numbers to the Department of
Motor Vehicles.

The law was intended to help state and local officials track down people who
failed to pay child support or parking tickets. But the court said the law also
had the effect of denying licenses to illegal immigrants, who are ineligible for
Social Security.

Illegal immigrants are ineligible for most public benefits in California but
were not barred from obtaining driver's licenses in the past. The case is
unrelated to the numerous legal challenges to Proposition 187, which would deny
public education, social services and non-emergency health care to illegal
immigrants.

Another state law, effective in March 1994, expressly barred illegal immigrants
from receiving "original" driver's licenses or identification cards. Lawyers for
a group of immigrants argued that the 1994 law's reference to "original"
licenses did not cover renewals of licenses that were legally obtained in the
past. They also contended the 1992 law was not intended to exclude applicants
who were unable to produce Social Security numbers.

San Francisco Superior Court Judge Stuart Pollak ordered the DMV in early 1994
to allow renewal of driver's licenses by all otherwise eligible license-
holders, regardless of immigration status. But the appeals court suspended his
order before it took effect, and overruled it Wednesday.

"The DMV is not only authorized, but obligated to require applicants for
original and renewal driver's licenses, identification cards and vehicle
registrations to supply their Social Security numbers," said Justice Zerne
Haning in the 3-0 ruling. "Persons whose presence in the United States is not
authorized by law are not entitled to such documents."

Haning acknowledged that possession of a Social Security number "has no relation
to one's ability to safely operate a motor vehicle." But he said requiring the
DMV to renew illegal immigrants' licenses was not intended by the law and "would
produce some bizarre results."

For example, he said, illegal immigrants who had gotten their original licenses
fraudulently would be eligible for renewals, as would those who had been ordered
deported.

He also said the law's reference to "original" licenses included renewals.

"The court took a very narrow view," said Steven Rosenbaum of California Rural
Legal Assistance, a lawyer for the immigrants. "The consequence is that we're
going to have a lot of people on the streets driving anyway who are going to be
untrained in the laws of the road, and who are not going to be insured."
Rosenbaum said the 1994 law banning licenses for illegal immigrants may be
challenged separately in the future.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 7, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL TO SET UP NEW CHECKPOINT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 116 words


After a spate of accidents -- some fatal -- involving cars and trucks crammed
with illegal immigrants and drugs, the Border Patrol in San Diego will set up a
checkpoint to deter smugglers from using inland routes. The temporary checkpoint
will slow traffic along Highway 94, an east-west artery just north of the
border, and make the trip more difficult for smugglers, officials said.
Operation Gatekeeper, started eight months ago, has successfully pushed some
illegal immigrant and drug trade traffic east into more inhospitable high desert
terrain. As a result, apprehensions have increased in these areas. So have
pursuits of trucks and vans carrying dozens of undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 11, 1995 Sunday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

HATE MAIL FOLLOWS ARTICLE ON HER IMMIGRANT KIDS' TEACHER TARGETED

BYLINE: HOLLY A. HEYSER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 724 words


For the first nine years, Angela Steele's job teaching English to immigrant
children at Sequoia High School was pretty much what one would expect -- honing
students' grammar, exposing them to Shakespeare and encouraging them to write
about what it's like coming to America.

During the past year, however, something has changed: Steele became someone's
target in the fight against illegal immigration.

Since the Mercury News published a profile of her last year, she has received
three angry and sarcastic letters from illegal-immigration opponents -- two
anonymous and one signed.

The number may seem small considering the tons of mail generated in the national
debate on immigration. But it's unusual for someone so far removed from the
political struggle to be targeted.

"It's appalling someone should be singled out for doing a great job," said
Sequoia Principal Earl Walker. He wasn't aware of any other teachers receiving
similar mail.

Steele said she thinks the letter writers' efforts are misdirected. "I don't
control the border," she said.

Bette Hammond agrees. She's founder of the Novato-based STOPIT, Stop the
Out-of-control Problems of Immigration Today.

One of the letters Steele received recently -- a sarcastic gift certificate
entitling the bearer "to 100 illegal immigrants" -- was printed by STOPIT last
fall. Hammond said STOPIT had encouraged members to send them to their
lawmakers, not to people like Steele.

"I really feel bad for this teacher," said Hammond, whose organization has
merged with another group to become United Citizens for Immigration Control. "I
understand this is her job and her life. We would never criticize her or send
letters anonymously."

At the bottom of the gift certificate mailed to Steele, someone wrote: "You are
on every list now being circulated throughout this state. Have a nice day." A
week later, Steele got another letter, a photocopy of a letter from Gov. Pete
Wilson thanking someone for supporting Proposition 187, the ballot initiative
approved by California voters last fall to deny public services to illegal
immigrants.

The Redwood City Police Department is investigating, but there is little police
can do because none of the letters is threatening.

"I'd like to know what their final intention is," said Officer Donald Banks.
"We're not going to let her get hurt. She's just doing her job."

Steele received her first letter a few days after a March 1994 Mercury News
profile. Signed "S. O'Neal" and marked with a Mountain View return address, it
blasted her for publishing a collection of students' stories about coming to the
United States, sometimes illegally.

"By encouraging your illegal Mexican/Central American immigrant students to
openly flaunt . . . their utter disregard for the laws of this country, you not
only set a negative example for them, but for other students as well," the
letter said.

" . . . Despite your efforts and our tax dollars, (illegal immigrant students)
are doomed to remain always an underclass, having no value other than the source
of cheap, docile labor, and breeders for The Catholic Church."

Steele's reaction: "It sickens me, really, that there are people who think like
that out there. That they're so ready to scapegoat. They just want an easy place
to dump their hatred and frustration."

Steele has shared all the three letters with her students. "I wanted them to be
aware of some of the sentiments out there," she said.

It turned into a good lesson on California, democracy and prejudice, she said.
When one student reacted by condemning all white people, she seized the
opportunity to teach about the danger of generalizations.

Last week, her students wrote their feelings about the letters for the Mercury
News. Sometimes their English is rough, but their messages are clear:

"We know that we are illegals, but some racist people are illegal too because
the Indians discovered this country and so they don't have to fight against us
because is not their country too," one wrote. "We are people, just like them, we
are not animals. We are not animals!"

Another student wrote, "I really feel so bad about these letters. And I want to
know, why this people hate us. We didn't make anything bad in this country, that
only thing that we want in this country is look for a better future."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version ran P. 2B Morning Final Edition

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
Angela Steele, teacher of English as a second language, talks with student Maria
Meza.
950611 LO 2B P
PHOTO: Steele
950611 LO 1B P 3

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 14, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROUD MOMENT BECOMING U.S. CITIZEN AT 105, WOMAN SAYS SHE HAD INCENTIVE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


It took 105-year-old Wen Tei Yue more than four decades -- and voter approval of
a measure denying benefits to illegal immigrants -- to become a U.S. citizen.

But on Tuesday, the woman believed to be the oldest person in the nation's
history to become a naturalized citizen was honored with an unusual presentation
of a flag to mark her new status.

"I'm just proud to be a U.S. citizen," the rosy-cheeked matriarch said later
through an interpreter as she leaned on a wooden cane outside San Francisco's
Nob Hill Masonic Auditorium.

"Now she's like a newborn person," her son George Yee, 82, said as federal
officials honored her at a ceremony replete with stars, stripes and poetic
speeches about America's cultural mosaic.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service gave her an American flag that will
be flown over the nation's Capitol and then returned to her. It was the first
time a new citizen had been so honored, said Thomas Schiltgen, INS director in
San Francisco.

He said Yue's age warranted special attention.

"Nobody could remember when we had someone older," Schiltgen said.

Yue was born in the Guangzhou Province of China in 1889 and moved to San
Francisco to join her husband and two sons -- already citizens -- in 1959.

For many years, Yue was satisfied with her status as a legal permanent resident.
But public rage that fueled the passage of Proposition 187 in California last
year changed her mind.

Proposition 187 only denies education, medical and welfare benefits for illegal
immigrants, not legal immigrants such as Yue. But she and her family were afraid
public sentiment might spur further restrictions.

"There's a general climate of concern about what's going to happen in the
future," said Yue's grandson, Gary Yee, 49. "People are taking their citizenship
more seriously."

In a speech during the ceremony, he thanked "all those who work to make the laws
fair for immigrants and those who helped (his grandmother) all these years even
though she wasn't a citizen."

Immigration officials confirm that the number of immigrants seeking
naturalization in Northern California has nearly doubled over the past year and
a half -- from roughly 6,000 a month to roughly 11,000.

But they say Proposition 187 was not the only impetus.

Amnesty and green-card renewal programs adopted since 1985 are only just now
hitting maturity dates, making participants eligible for citizenship, Schiltgen
said.

Until Yue took her naturalization oath last month, she was the only one of her
50-member family in the United States who was not a U.S. citizen.

She studied off and on for several months for a test on U.S. presidents, the
number of stars and stripes in the U.S. flag, the date American colonies
declared themselves free from British rule and other historic and patriotic
themes.

Coached by her grandchildren, Yue also had to practice her signature.

Yue is generally healthy, likes to help take care of her 18-month-old
great-granddaughter and enjoys cooking.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MICHAEL MALONEY -- SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE
Wen Tei Yue gives the Pledge of Allegiance at Tuesday's ceremony. At right is
her son George Yee.
950614 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 18, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON HITS SNAG ON TRIP TO FLORIDA IMMIGRATION VIEWS BRING OUT CRITICS

BYLINE: Scott Thurm, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 534 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Gov. Pete Wilson learned a tough lesson in political transplantation Saturday:
Ideas that flourish in California may not take root so easily elsewhere.

On his first major trip as a presidential candidate, Wilson was greeted by a
sharply critical newspaper column and skeptical questions from local reporters
because of his well-publicized crackdown on illegal immigrants.

In California, concern about illegal immigrants from Mexico helped Wilson win
re-election last year. In South Florida, however, influential and predominantly
Republican Cuban-Americans view immigration quite differently; they want U.S.
gates kept open for anyone fleeing communist Cuba.

'Simply wrong'

True to form, Wilson refused to back down, asserting that he had always
distinguished between legal and illegal immigration and would continue to grant
political asylum to many Cubans who leave their homeland. And he highlighted his
endorsement by a local Cuban-American politician.

"Those who have raised the cheap charge of racism are simply wrong," Wilson told
a morning news conference, insisting that California's Proposition 187 -
approved by voters last fall - "is not anti-immigrant."

Wilson sought to deflect the issue by pledging additional economic and
diplomatic steps to depose Cuban leader Fidel Castro and promising quick visas
for political refugees.

But it's not clear how Wilson's Cuba policy would differ from that of President
Clinton, who has been criticized by local Cuban-Americans for detaining and
returning many Cubans who flee on homemade rafts. "We cannot simply say, 'Let
the rafters come,' " Wilson said.

Florida stopovers

After Miami, Wilson stopped Saturday in Orlando and Tampa to showcase his
Florida supporters, including state Comptroller Robert Milligan, former
Republican National Co-Chairwoman Jeanie Austin and Coral Gables Mayor Raul
Valdes-Fauli.

Milligan, who commanded U.S. Marines in the Persian Gulf War, served with Wilson
in the Marines in the late 1950s.

In speeches limited by his still-ailing throat, Wilson stressed his emerging
campaign themes of restricting welfare and ending affirmative action. Together
with illegal immigration, they are part of Wilson's appeal to "fairness" for
Middle Americans.

The governor acknowledged that most of his eight competitors for the Republican
presidential nomination share these views. But Wilson insisted that his
experience as a mayor and governor make him best-prepared to be president.

"There is a world of difference between being a legislator and being a chief
executive," Wilson said in Orlando. "Much of what this country needs I have
already done in California."

In contrast to Wilson's appearances in California, the Miami news conference
focused almost exclusively on foreign affairs. Wilson criticized U.S. policy in
Bosnia as well as in Cuba, endorsed moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel
Aviv to Jerusalem, and said the United States should renounce the anti-ballistic
missile treaty with Russia.

Today, Wilson will share Father's Day breakfast with his 93-year-old father, who
lives nearby. Then he will fly to Iowa, site of the nation's first presidential
caucuses next February.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: Page 1A

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 9, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'AIRPORT MUSIC' NEVER REALLY ARRIVES VIEW OF IMMIGRATION BOGS DOWN IN GRIPING

BYLINE: JUDITH GREEN, Mercury News Theater Writer

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 715 words

DATELINE: Berkeley


SOMETHING snapped -- my patience -- during "Airport Music," an excuse for
Filipino-American writers/performance artists Jessica Hagedorn and Han Ong to
complain for an hour about the immigrant experience that made them.

The piece (at Berkeley Rep through July 3) is a series of disconnected
vignettes, told in poetic language that often crosses the line into the self-
conscious, about arrival -- the real arrival of immigrants at the airport and
psychological arrival, which is more elusive. The text is eked out with
photographic projections and phrases of popular music, which symbolize the
promise of America.

For instance: Hagedorn, playing with an invisible yo-yo, points out that the
word connotes flakiness in English and pride ("I -- I") in Spanish -- but in
Tagalog, the Filipino language, it means to return.

Then Ong remembers the first music he heard in Los Angeles, by Wham: "Wake me up
before you go-go/Don't leave me hanging like a yo-yo" -- and the image suddenly
blossoms into an intricate network of associations.

If only the rest of the piece had the depth of this moment. Instead, it's mostly
about anger, which is a good servant but a bad master.

Accomplished writers

Hagedorn, 45, came to the United States in 1963, at the age of 14. She's a
playwright, screenwriter and novelist, whose "Dogeaters" was nominated for a
National Book Award in 1990. She's also the editor of a much-praised collection
of Asian-American fiction called "Charlie Chan Is Dead."

What she's not is a performance artist. Her in-your-face stage personality is
about as sullen and unappealing as it is possible to be.

Ong, 26, who emigrated from the Philippines to Los Angeles in 1984, is a gifted
writer and a performance artist of greater command than Hagedorn, though he goes
out of his way to present the same face to the world. The passages of "Airport
Music" that most bloom and resonate are his -- clearly the work of the same
spare poet whose plays, "Reasons to Live" and "Bachelor Rat," and the monologue
piece "Symposium in Manila" all were produced in the Bay Area in the spring of
1992.

"Airport Music" speaks to the common desire of any culture to express its
identity. Filipinos, among the largest of the Bay Area's Asian immigrant
populations, are struggling to define themselves -- somewhere among the politics
of U.S.-Asian trade, the heavy hand of the Catholic Church and a polyglot
language born of many conquests.

As a culture, the Filipinos face, in effect, the same heartbreak and
disappointment that every other immigrant people in the States have faced.
Historically, it has taken most immigrants a couple of generations to earn their
way into the middle class. But Hagedorn achieved it in one, while Ong is an
artist of consequence in less than a decade. So their breast-beating seems a
little disingenuous.

'Bastards of discovery'

Hagedorn's best passage concerns the history of the islands, which lay in the
path of European desire for "gold, pepper, saffron, cinnamon and souls." "Here
we are, the bastards of discovery!" she cries.

Behind her are photographs of Filipino children, beautiful little creatures soon
to be chewed up in the grinding poverty of the Manila slums. When Hagedorn
speaks the word "home" in a voice redolent with longing, I wondered: Does she
really want to go "home"? Can she make a difference from here? Or, like many
activist-artists I've seen, is she more comfortable wailing about imperialism
and injustice from a safe distance?

Ong returns, again and again, to a dream he has in which his father can't read
the signals at a crosswalk and remains frozen on the curb, while his children
run across the street to embrace assimilation. It's a bittersweet and telling
image.

But assimilation is a double-edged process: For everything gained, something is
lost. Transition is, by definition, unsettling. Hagedorn and Ong set out, I
think, to find some balance but mistakenly settle for a fixation. Musically as
well as dramatically, "Airport Music" is all on one note.
Airport Music

By Jessica Hagedorn and Han Ong

* Producer: Berkeley Rep

* Through: July 3

* Running time: 1 hour

* Where: 2025 Addison St., Berkeley

* Tickets: $16-$21. (510) 845-4700

* Parking: Municipal garage, $2

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THEATER REVIEW

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Han Ong and Jessica Hagedorn, gifted writers but, overall, unappealing
performers.
940609 LI 3C 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 18, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN GAY ASYLUM FORMALLY OK'D

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 100 words


The Clinton administration formally acknowledged Friday that U.S. immigration
laws allow foreigners persecuted abroad as gays to receive political asylum in
the United States. In an order requested by Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., and
issued by Attorney General Janet Reno, U.S. immigration boards were instructed
to adopt the 1990 case of a Cuban refugee as a precedent in all proceedings
involving lesbians and gay men seeking asylum. The policy grants gays the status
of a social group eligible for political asylum in the United States, a
classification the Bush administration refused to adopt.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reno
940618 FR 15A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 19, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SQUATTERS' SETTLEMENT MAY SHUT DOWN SWELLING MIGRANT CAMP NOW FACES DEMOLITION

BYLINE: AMANDA COVARRUBIAS, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Residents call it Rancho de los Diablos, Ranch of the Devils.

With ramshackle homes that city inspectors call fire hazards, bumpy dirt roads
that flood during rainstorms and portable toilets that can promote infection,
the name fits this makeshift migrant camp.

Started by a handful of male migrant workers as a squatters' settlement in the
1970s, the San Diego County camp ballooned to 700 men, women and children after
passage of the Immigration Reform Act of 1986.

The landmark federal legislation allowed many of the men to bring their families
to the United States, turning the settlement into a sprawling village. The
immigrants -- some legal, some illegal -- are mostly from Mexico, Guatemala and
El Salvador.

The site, down a steep dirt road through green hills blooming with wild yellow
mustard, was chosen by squatters because of its proximity to a large
agricultural area.

Men drive beat-up cars or ride bicycles to work in nearby fields, nurseries or
construction sites. Others are day laborers who wait on street corners for
someone to hire them. The women baby-sit or clean houses for affluent nearby
suburbanites.

U.S. Border Patrol agents come around often, residents say. Sometimes they just
look around; sometimes they arrest people.

Over the years, church and social service groups have tried to make the camp
more habitable.

They set up a solar power system, brought in portable toilets and weekly trash
pickup, arranged for a pipeline that brings in clean water and established a
church and a general store.

The store even stocks cellular phones that residents pay to use. A call to
Mexico costs a dollar.

But as its population grew, so did public and official sentiment against the
camp. The city started condemnation proceedings in May 1993 after landowners and
city officials decided the situation had gotten out of hand -- and dangerous.
"This is private property, substandard and illegal," said Tony Khalil, senior
city engineer. "The conditions they're living in now, I don't think anyone
should be living in those conditions."

The city is working with a non-profit agency to move families to permanent
housing by October.

The agency, Esperanza, won a $518,000 federal grant to help families pay rent
for up to a year. To encourage self-sufficiency, the group is requiring families
to pay part of their rent, said Jennifer LeSar, executive director of the
agency.

Workers without families will receive help only with rent deposits and utility
deposits.

Carlsbad businessman Dave Goodall, co-owner of the property, says he and partner
Robert Scarcia wanted the camp shut down much sooner. But social service and
city officials asked them to wait until they figured out what to do.

In the meantime, nearby homeowners sued Goodall and Scarcia, demanding the camp
be closed down. Some upscale homes are a quarter-mile from the entrance to
Rancho de los Diablos.

"They said they didn't like all these people walking through their back yards,"
Goodall said. Demolition plans have silenced those complaints.

Once the camp is demolished, the land of Rancho de los Diablos will be returned
to its natural state, Goodall said.

The land is not zoned for development. But development pressures are constant.
More and more expensive houses continue to be built in the hills around it.

"They're tough workers and just wonderful people," Goodall says of the
squatters. "The devastation comes when they're encouraged to bring their
families. They can't support their families on the wages they're earning."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Women, above, do laundry at the laborers' camp.
940619 CA 3B 1
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Below right, Juana Diaz takes a break to handle hair care for her 1-year-old,
Maribel.
940619 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 20, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT MYTHS STOKE WILSON'S FIRE

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 790 words


WHAT WOULD Gov. Pete Wilson do without immigrants to blame?

A couple of years ago, he singled out all newcomers, even transplants from other
U.S. states, as too costly for Californians to support. But the courts and the
public didn't buy it. Too nasty and unconstitutional.

He's now zeroed in on illegal immigrants and this time he's found a following
among recession-weary Californians. Without illegal immigrants, he says, our
teachers could teach and not do crowd control. We'd have more space in prisons
for American bad guys, more money for health care and welfare for citizens.
Immigrants, and especially the illegal ones, cost too much and the federal
government isn't sharing the burden of public support.

Forgotten in the cost-of-immigration debate is the fact that immigrants, legal
and illegal, rent apartments, buy groceries and gasoline, and produce goods and
deliver services.

Almost nobody has measured the productivity of immigrants, says Jeffrey Passel,
a demographer at the respected and non-partisan Urban Institute in Washington.
He's argued that immigrants may cost counties more in services than they pay in
taxes, but so do natives.

That fact is lost on Wilson, who isn't in the mood to be logical. He's in the
mood to scapegoat his way to re-election in November.

Passel and colleague Michael Fix have produced an eye-opening study,
"Immigration and Immigrants: Setting the Record Straight" that offers a balanced
view of legal and illegal immigration. The researchers combed census data and
existing studies to sort myths from fact. I offer here some of their findings.
Myth: Mexican illegal immigrants are pouring across the border daily.

The image of a porous border comes from federal reports on annual apprehensions
of 1 million people along the border. Virtually all of these apprehensions are
temporary migrant laborers who are caught more than once and don't intend to
live in the United States anyway. Only one-third of illegal immigrants are
Mexicans. Six out of 10 undocumented immigrants arrive legally from countries
all over the world and overstay their visas.

Myth: Immigrants aren't learning English.

About half of new immigrants report speaking English well or very well. Recent
immigrants from Spanish-speaking countries become proficient in English at a
greater rate than those from Asia, Europe, Africa and other non-English speaking
regions.

Myth: Immigrants depress the wages of American workers.

Wage growth is no slower, and may be even faster where lots of legal or illegal
immigrants have joined the labor force. Immigration may contribute slightly to
lower wages of low-skilled Americans, but competition from cheap goods made
abroad are another wage-killer.

Myth: Immigrants are heavy users of welfare.

When you factor out refugees, immigrants are less likely than citizens to
receive welfare. Native-born Americans receive 87 percent of all welfare income.
Immigrant refugees, elderly immigrants and naturalized citizens received the
rest, about $4 billion.

Myth: Studies in Los Angeles and San Diego counties prove that immigrants take
more in public services than they pay in taxes.

The Los Angeles study figured that the net cost of immigration in 1992 was $833
million, but the study was seriously flawed. For example, it omitted the
contribution from long-term immigrants who represent 15 percent of the
population and pay 18 percent of the taxes. It overstated the costs for recent
legal immigrants by $140 million.

The San Diego studies put that county's illegal immigrant population at 200,000,
a gross overestimation. They omitted several taxes paid by immigrants, most
notably property taxes, underestimated some revenues and relied on small,
unrepresentative samples.

Passel and Fix don't suggest everything is fine with immigration.

For example, most of the taxes all immigrants (and everybody else) pay go to the
federal treasury, while most services used by immigrants are state and local
responsibilities. That unequal dollar flow puts a strain on cities and counties
with large immigrant populations.

But overall, illegal immigrants are a plus to the economy. They aren't here
because the feds can't control the border. They're here because America is
addicted to cheap labor and won't force unemployed Americans to do grunt work in
return for public assistance.

Illegal immigrants didn't cause the savings and loan fiasco. They didn't build
Cold War economies that aren't needed anymore. They didn't drive down real
estate values. They don't benefit from tax-loopholes for the rich.

But those are problems Wilson would rather not address. He'd rather attack those
who can't vote or give him campaign money.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
See also related story on P. 6B of this section
Joe Rodriguez is a Mercury News editorial writer.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 25, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION INITIATIVE HIT AS LEGAL RISK

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


An immigration initiative backed by Gov. Pete Wilson may be unconstitutional and
could cost California $2.3 billion in federal funds, a state Senate analysis
said Friday.

The "Save Our State" measure on the Nov. 8 ballot would deny public education
and social and health programs to illegal immigrants in California and would
require police, teachers and health care workers to report suspected aliens to
state and federal authorities.

It also would make it a felony to make or sell false citizenship documents. A
four-page report issued Friday by the Senate Office of Research said denying
public schooling for undocumented children goes against rulings by both the U.S.
and California supreme courts.

Backers of the initiative say its passage would allow the U.S. Supreme Court to
revisit its 1982 decision that undocumented children are entitled to public
education.

However, the Senate analysis said a 1992 California Supreme Court ruling went
further and ruled that public schooling is a "fundamental right" under the state
constitution.

Moreover, requiring teachers to report undocumented students could jeopardize
school funding under a federal law that prohibits releasing information about
pupils without parental consent.

"Reporting undocumented students to the INS might jeopardize $2.3 billion in
federal monies for California schools in 1994-'95 -- considerably more than the
$1.7 billion that Gov. Pete Wilson estimates undocumented students are costing
the state," the report says.

In denying health care, the initiative appears to go beyond the stated intent of
its backers, the analysis says.

A preamble to the initiative says it would deny illegal aliens all publicly
financed health care, except for emergency services.

"But the initiative's wording appears to forbid hospitals and clinics to provide
any non-emergency health care to the undocumented, including care to persons
willing to pay for it," the Senate report says.

"It would appear to end hospital discretion over treating undocumented persons
who have non-emergency, but perhaps contagious and potentially dangerous
conditions such as tuberculosis or AIDS."

The analysis also said that requiring health care workers to report undocumented
patients would violate professional standards of confidentiality.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 26, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OF, BY AND FOR THE PEOPLE, THROUGH CITIZENSHIP, MAKE DEMOCRACY WORK

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6F

LENGTH: 502 words


DEMOCRACY is government of the people, by the people and for the people, and
it's weakened when a lot of people aren't citizens and can't vote. With high
immigration and low rates of naturalization, California risks developing a large
political underclass, easy to scapegoat, easy to ignore.

Citizenship -- its meaning and its future -- is the topic of the latest forum in
our series, "E Pluribus Who? Diversity and Unity in America." The transcript
starts on the front page of this section and continues on the Commentary page.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 10 million legal
permanent residents who are not citizens live in the United States. By the turn
of the century, these sort-of-Americans may be a quarter of the population of
Los Angeles, New York, Miami and other cities.

Add non-voters to non-citizens, and it leaves a shrinking minority of people to
decide on the governor, the city council and the school bonds.

Three million amnesty recipients -- most of them from Mexico -- are becoming
eligible for citizenship. But only 22.6 percent of legal Mexican immigrants are
naturalized citizens now. It is critical to encourage these residents to make a
commitment to this country, assuming the rights and responsibilities of
citizenship.

Last year, the Clinton administration announced plans to encourage legal
immigrants to become citizens. That's never been done; the INS plans to consult
community groups about how to do it.

One critical first step is to hire enough staff to process applications
promptly. Right now, a would-be citizen who applies at the San Jose INS office
will wait more than a year for an interview. There's a backlog of 15,500
applicants, and getting worse. Applications are up to 1,200 a month. Only six
officers are available to do naturalization interviews.

Included in the appropriations bill for the INS is $7.5 million to hire more
staff. The bill requires the INS to report on how it can limit the wait to 120
days for an interview, and 45 days for a chance to take the oath of allegiance.
The bill also includes money for a pilot program to promote citizenship.

Unlike other newcomers, Mexican immigrants live close to their native land; it's
easy to move back and forth across the border, following jobs and family
members. It's not surprising that many are reluctant to pledge sole allegiance
to the United States. However, we don't agree with political scientist Jesus
Martinez, one of our forum participants, who advocates binational citizenship in
both the United States and Mexico.

George Washington said it in a farewell address in 1796: "Citizens by birth or
choice of a common country, that country has a right to concentrate your
affections. The name of American, which belongs to you in your national
capacity, must always exalt the just pride of patriotism . . . "

To legal immigrants, Americans must say: Uncle Sam wants you to help run your
community and your new country. Join us. We need you.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: E Pluribus WHO?

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 27, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMERICANS ABROAD MUST FOLLOW LOCAL RULES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 527 words


On Tuesday, the Mercury News reported on a civil suit brought by an immigrant
Mexican worker who disliked the "English-only rules in the workplace" set my his
employer. The court found against the immigrant. The language requirement
stands.

On Thursday, you published a letter from a Brazilian immigrant who complained
that in America, she wasn't allowed to carry as big a horn or banner into the
soccer stadium as she could have in Brazil, thus "being denied freedom of
expression."

Oh, give me a break!

While serving my country for almost 25 years on active duty in our Navy, I
visited 67 countries and lived for prolonged periods in seven of them. In
exactly none of them did anyone give a damn about their restrictions on my
American rights. Especially in the cases of nations south of our borders, it
was, "Yankee go home! But leave your dollars."

This is not Mexico nor Brazil nor Russia nor Pakistan nor Hong Kong. This is the
United States of America. And we Americans make the rules here. If you don't
want to play by American rules, I assure you that no one will shoot you in the
back as you depart our country for the Utopia you left to come here.

-- Walter E. Murdock

Palo Alto
Further diminishing sanctity of marriage

The two Republicans who voted to approve Sen. Gary Hart's bill, "Bill would let
agencies cover domestic partners' health" (June 17) should be forced to turn
their ears back to the party.

Over 50 years ago, a federal bill was proposed to financially aid "widows and
orphans." Someone, whose name will go down in infamy, added "unwed mothers." Of
course, that little addition, by diminishing the sanctity of marriage and
family, led to the welfare system as we know it today. It taught millions that
they don't have to be responsible for their actions -- it led to deadbeat dads,
single parent families, crime, criminal child neglect, widespread fraud and
abuse.

Now, our state senators want to further diminish the sanctity -- the legal,
moral and financial responsibility and commitment -- that is intrinsic to a
legal marriage by giving people who just want to shack up benefits intended for
a legal family at taxpayer expense.

And, since the recipients of this new taxpayer funded benefit will have to
register, their relationship status will have to be continually checked; they
don't have to file for divorce to split. That's a whole new bureaucracy and a
whole new opportunity for fraud and abuse. It is also wrong.

-- Ted De Breau

Los Gatos
O.J., we thought we knew you

Lee Brokaw's plain-spoken disdain for the media in the wake of O.J. Simpson's
arrest -- "Why don't you people get a life" (June 19) -- might be better
directed at some of his fellow letter-writers published that day.

I am referring to the people who persist in the infantile fantasy that the rich
and famous are somehow in better control of their baser instincts simply by
virtue of their wealth and popularity. As anyone who has seen the darker side of
certain celebrities can attest, and as the Simpson case is sure to reaffirm, to
be very well known is not the same as being known very well.

-- Stan DeVaughn

Los Altos

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 28, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNCOVERING THE TRUTH ABOUT IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 390 words


I want to thank Joe Rodriguez for the June 20 commentary "Immigrant myths stoke
Wilson's fire."

Many Californians have been provided with inaccurate information about the
impact of immigration on our state's economy and have been led to the erroneous
belief that our current fiscal problems can be traced to immigration.

What better way for Gov. Pete Wilson to explain his failed leadership than to
blame a group that can't vote? Recent immigrants tend to be too afraid about
their legal status to make any sort of political commotion about his wild
accusations. Lawful residents who have not become U.S. citizens cannot vote him
out.

As pointed out by Rodriguez, statistics and countless studies show that
immigrants benefit California's economy and contributed in a myriad of ways to
our economic successes of the past. Immigrants neither come to abuse welfare,
nor to have children in Los Angeles public hospitals, nor to overrun
California's schools; immigrants come to work.

Rather than attribute his failed governorship to immigration, Wilson and our
other elected leaders should take a hard look at California's economic problems
and provide a vision that will lead California into the next century. Finding a
scapegoat is just too easy.

-- Jean Russell

Los Altos

* It is unfortunate that Rodriguez fails to differentiate between legal and
illegal immigrants.

By definition, "illegal" means against the law, be it crossing borders,
exceeding speed limits or committing burglary. I am sure the Mercury News does
not support those activities and I am therefore puzzled by the doublethink
relating to immigration.

Every sovereign country has defined borders and has the right to defend the
integrity of those borders and to determine the conditions of admittance of
legal immigrants.

-- Jan Black

Cupertino

* The way the June 20 editorial "Truth of the border" made it sound, Pete Wilson
is the sole reason we have immigrant bashing.

Never once did it mention that our two U.S. senators from California, Barbara
Boxer and Dianne Feinstein, have made just as damning statements. Who can forget
Feinstein's proposal that illegal immigrants get fined for attempting to cross
the border? Who can forget Boxer's claim that we should place the National Guard
on those same borders?

-- Michael S. Cini

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: TIM BRINTON
940628 ED 6B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 29, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. REVOKES HAITIAN VISAS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: Washington


Working to further isolate Haiti, the Clinton administration today revoked most
non-immigrant visas held by Haitians. The United States also reopened its naval
base in Cuba to the flood of Haitians seeking political asylum.

The action largely effects Haitians hoping to visit the United States or to
those already in this country temporarily. It is considered largely symbolic
because commercial air traffic between the United States and Haiti was banned
late last week by President Clinton.

White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said the action will forbid Haitians from
skirting sanctions already in place by traveling to the United States through
other countries. "The country is not sealed," she explained.

The administration also has frozen Haitian assets in U.S. banks and forbidden
transfers of those funds.

Targets upper class

Addressing the latest action, Myers said, "It demonstrates in no uncertain terms
that there is a real cost to Haitians' continued support of the military and its
illegal government."

She added: "This is meant to target people who are close to the privileged
class. This is one more step in cracking down."

Excluded from the action will be some students and others with residency status,
along with people applying for immigration status, such as those carrying "green
cards."

She also confirmed that Guantanamo has been opened to handle the overflow of
Haitians seeking refugee status.

Plucked from the sea

Top officials took the action Tuesday evening after thousands of Haitians were
plucked from boats by Coast Guard cutters during five chaotic days. The 2,806
fleeing Haitians intercepted since Friday eclipsed the number intercepted during
all of 1993, when all Haitian migrants were forcibly returned to their homeland.

The migrants have been lured to sea by President Clinton's decision to give
fleeing Haitians a chance to apply for political asylum for the first time since
President Bush halted the practice in May 1992.

There was almost a crisis atmosphere on Tuesday after word reached here that
1,486 Haitians were picked up on Monday, the second highest one-day total since
the ouster of in September 1991.

Officials decided to reopen Guantanamo after concluding that existing facilities
for interviewing Haitians could be overwhelmed.

Myers again urged Haitian to apply for refugee status at centers inside the
country. "Their chances are just as good if they stay in Haiti," she said.

The U.S. base at Guantanamo had been used as a migrant processing center in the
early months after Aristide's ouster in a military coup.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A U.S. Coast Guard cutter carries dozens of refugees after they were picked up
Sunday off the coast of Haiti.
940629 FR 12A PF

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 4, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP GIVES IMMIGRANTS A VOICE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 302 words


Politicians are pulling no punches this election year: Bash illegal immigrants
and tally up the votes.

And many immigrants are turning the other cheek.

Legal immigrants may not care today, but they may find themselves to be the
hot-button topic next year. Already, politicians are talking about restricting
legal immigration. Legal immigrants will find it hard to defend themselves
because many are not naturalized. The right to vote -- one of the many
privileges of citizenship -- may seem insignificant, but suffrage ultimately
means voice.

Thirty years ago, naturalized Asians and Latinos joined African-Americans and
lobbied successfully for an ethnic studies curriculum at San Francisco State
University.

Today, conservatives warn that multiculturalism would "Balkanize" America, but
they fail to realize that we immigrants have been celebrating our cultures in
our homes and churches long before the term "multiculturalism" worked its way
into the national lexicon.

In fact, multiculturalism has helped desegregate society by bringing our
self-pride out of the home and into the public arena where all people -- black,
Latino, Asian, American Indian or European -- can partake of festivities like
Cinco de Mayo, Chinese New Year and St. Patrick's Day.

This summer, I will be applying for citizenship. I urge all eligible residents
who have not naturalized to do the same because we all need to do our part. Our
nationwide struggle to gain respect and appreciation began at SFSU, but let's
not let it die there.

At present, politicians are taking away the human rights of illegals, and you
can bet legal immigrants will be next year's scapegoats. We immigrants must not
stand idly by while lawmakers play hardball at the expense of our constitutional
rights.

--Andrew Wong

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 12, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE WORK ETHIC IS AN ELLIS ISLAND THING

BYLINE: RICHARD RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: Ellis Island, N.Y.

"Come to Ellis Island," a friend of mine said. "I will show you my Russian
grandfather's name on the wall."

On a gray weekday morning, I went to Ellis Island with little armies of
schoolchildren, in search of the past. But I was left thinking about the
descendants of immigrants who came through this place.

Polls indicate that a majority of Americans favor a moratorium on immigration.
Some even say that we should stop immigration altogether. Americans conclude
that we have an immigrant problem. No one wonders if perhaps America has a
native-born problem. Does America need the native-born?

"We are a nation of immigrants," Americans will say. We tend, however, to
celebrate immigration after the fact. When the pavilions of Ellis Island were
crowded at the turn of the century, most Americans probably didn't want
foreigners, didn't like them -- the way they looked, the way they spoke, their
garlic and their crucifixes, their funny clothes.

Idealism prevailed. Pragmatism prevailed. America needed the cheap labor of
Yiddish-speaking grandmothers in the sweatshops. We needed immigrants to build
our bridges and carve the Great Plains. Out West, the Chinese were imported to
build the railroads. Once the Chinese had finished, Americans wished they would
go back to China.

But idealism also created Ellis Island. Americans in the 19th century understood
the individual's right to flee the past. How could America resist these
newcomers?

Just like immigrants, native-born Americans habitually are on the move -- moving
from Ohio to Kansas, moving from Dallas to Orlando, Portland to Boise. Our
highways are crowded with the restlessness we gleaned from our immigrant
ancestors.

The trouble is, we never measure up. We, the children of immigrants, are never
as bold, never as driven, as our grandparents. That is why we become annoyed
sometimes by immigrant ambition.

In California -- the destination of the majority of today's immigrants -- people
complain that the immigrants are coming for welfare dollars. The more
interesting complaint one hears these days in California is that the immigrants
work too hard.

One hears it particularly about illegal immigrants; they are taking our jobs. I
remember the parent who told me -- after his children failed to gain entrance to
the University of California -- that Asians were unfair because they worked so
hard.

Because of immigrants, Los Angeles has become a working town, no longer the
golden, blond city of leisure. Immigrants are blamed for the change -- the
traffic, the bad air. Immigrants have turned L.A. into Cleveland.

The Puritans were America's first immigrants. They came, fleeing intolerance.
Puritans ended up intolerant of other immigrants who came after. What the
Puritans nonetheless planted on American soil was a Protestant faith: You can be
born again.

In the 1840s, the Irish were America's major immigrant group. The nativist
complaint against the Irish was theological. Today, we talk ethnicity and race.
In the 19th century, it wasn't a question of Asians and Hispanics, but whether a
Catholic could become a good American. Could a Jew?

The irony is that the Jews, the Orthodox Greeks, the Mennonites, the Irish
Catholics who came through Ellis Island became the new Puritans, restoring the
early Protestant determination, the founders' optimistic individualism.

Who doubts it now? The immigrants of Ellis Island created America. We, their
children and grandchildren, inherited America. And this is the problem. For the
native born, America is not a destination, it is our address. We lack the
immigrants' thrilling sense of discontinuity. Rather, we are carriers of memory.
They tore down the forests, we become environmentalists. They were fiercely set
on the new, we remember when it was possible to find a parking space in downtown
L.A.

Who will say it? Native-born blacks are being outpaced by immigrant blacks from
the Caribbean. I worry less about the newly arrived Mexican kid who is job
hunting today in Phoenix than I worry about the third generation "Chicano"
undergraduate at UCLA who is mired in the despair of American pop culture.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Richard Rodriguez, the author of "Days of Obligation: An Argument with my
Mexican Father," is a Pacific News Service editor.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 17, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHO'S SORRY NOW?

BYLINE: The Insider is compiled by Mercury News reporters.

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 779 words


When U.S. Rep. Michael Huffington used a San Francisco Chronicle masthead and
article to charge that former S.F. Mayor Dianne Feinstein had signed a sanctuary
resolution making the city a safe haven "in defiance of federal immigration
law," the Chron's loyal editorial pages leaped to Senator Difi's defense.
Blatant distortion . . . "a plain and simple lie," cried the editorial writers
(but not Feinstein biographer Jerry Roberts, the ed page editor who "recused"
himself to avoid a conflict of interest). Trouble was, the Chron itself, in a
Page 1 story, had said the resolution was "in defiance of federal law" - wording
that was changed in a later article to "in defiance of U.S. foreign policy."
"The Chronicle stands behind its editorial," said Editor Bill German. German
said the Chron's Page 1 wording was wrong. But he admitted the paper never
corrected the earlier article. Huffington's ad falsely portrays Feinstein as
soft on immigration. But the resolution she signed back in 1985 stated the city
"declares itself in opposition to the deportation of known law-abiding refugees
who have fled their homelands for fear of losing their lives." Sounds like
defiance to us. Left to clean up the mess was newly anointed Political Editor
Susan Yoachum - formerly of the Bay Area's Best - whose article gave full voice
to Huffington's complaint that the Chron had engaged in "shameless and bold-
faced distortions" on behalf of its "hometown favorite."

Share and share alike

If it's July, the howling you hear on West Hedding Street must be county
officials in their annual lament over state-sponsored budget terrorism. This
year Santa Clara County must cut as much as $30 million from its budget by order
of Gov. Pete Wilson and the state Legislature. Meanwhile, City Hall is chortling
because Sacramento left its treasury unscathed. Statewide, counties are coughing
up nearly $600 million to help balance the $57.8 billion California budget while
cities are paying virtually nothing. How did this happen?

Our sources say two San Jose Democrats, state Sen. Al Alquist and Assemblyman
John Vasconcellos, clashed sharply over local government cuts in the final
drafting of the Legislature's budget. Vasconcellos sought to force cities to
defray county cuts by chipping in a comparatively modest $100 million, mostly
through vehicle license fees. That proposal might have cut San Jose's revenue by
about $3 million or $4 million. But Alquist helped quash the idea June 23 in a
budget conference committee. One Assembly aide marveled that county partisans
are routinely "beaten to a pulp" by pro-city lobbyists at the Capitol. "They
tend to cut us more than they do others," said George Newell, acting Santa Clara
County executive. "We're not getting used to it, but it's happening year after
year."

When White saw red

About a year before San Jose City Manager Les White announced his resignation on
July 1, reports circulated in City Hall of a lengthy, heated exchange between
the manager and city council members during his annual performance review behind
closed doors. That was no surprise considering the council's tense 7-4 vote in
June 1993 upholding White's decision to oust a Hispanic deputy city manager. But
an intriguing footnote has since emerged from a city source: White told Mayor
Susan Hammer after the review that he was fed up with the job and would resign
immediately. Hammer counseled him to cool down and give his decision more
thought. He did, and he stayed, and by most accounts he is leaving the
government Aug. 13 on amicable terms.

The circular file

Among the county affairs Supervisor Zoe Lofgren will not be tidying up before
she heads to Congress next year is the long-stalled proposal by developer Rocke
Garcia to build a golf course on the Santa Teresa ridge south of San Jose.
Recall that Lofgren had voted for the development in 1993 even though her
husband's law firm had on its books an outstanding loan to Rex Lindsay, a
lobbyist for the project. When the story broke in December, Lofgren said she had
no knowledge of the loan. And Lofgren's husband, John Marshall Collins, said he
never discusses his firm's finances with his wife.

Now the Democratic congressional nominee says she is having nothing to do with
the project as it nears another vote next month. She said she has recused
herself from closed-session discussions about it, and she plans to abstain when
it comes up publicly. Nor will she read any staff reports on the matter. "I told
Mavis (Toscano, her chief aide) if the stuff comes in just to throw it away,"
Lofgren said. "Either you participate or you don't participate."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE INSIDER

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Huffington
940717 PE 2F 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 21, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHOULD NON-CITIZENS SERVE?

BYLINE: MARK JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 891 words


Trying to defuse a potentially explosive issue in a city where minority members
have become the majority, the Milpitas City Council has decided to let voters
determine whether non-citizens should be barred from serving on civic
commissions.

The issue has drawn passionate arguments from both sides in Milpitas, where 52
percent of the city's residents are members of minority groups and 20 percent
are not U.S. citizens.

And the November ballot issue comes at a time of increasing political tension
over immigration in California. The state's voters will also be asked to decide
on the rights of illegal immigrants.

In Milpitas, the debate began when a legal immigrant was appointed to the
planning commission.

Ron Rivera, a citizens emergency preparedness commissioner, on Tuesday delivered
to the Milpitas council a petition with 60 signatures demanding that the debate
be placed on the ballot. Citizenship, he said, "is not a litmus test of the
heart, but a person's country of allegiance holds great importance."

Deepka Lalwani, who moved to Milpitas four years ago, sees it differently:

"When we moved here, my son joined Rainbow Theater and has already performed in
six plays and is also a city volunteer. I volunteered in Senior Center every
time I took my mother there for bingo games. . . . I am also a volunteer for
Support Network for Battered Women.

"I am fully participating even though I am not a citizen as yet."

The city council -- which is all white -- agreed to let voters decide.

In January, Mayor Pete McHugh appointed Mohan Trikha to the city planning
commission. Trikha, general manager of Xerox Corp. in Palo Alto, is a native of
India who lived in England before moving to the United States 10 years ago. He
is a permanent U.S. resident but a British citizen.

Although Trikha's appointment caused an immediate outcry, the council at first
approved it, then decided in February that no more non-citizens would be
appointed, then decided less than a month later that citizenship will not be
required.

The state Government Code, which regulates general-law cities such as Milpitas,
has no citizenship requirement for commissioners. Some cities, such as San Jose,
have a requirement that commissioners be registered voters, which would
disqualify non-citizens.

McHugh earlier had appointed another non-citizen, Steve J. Lu, to the senior
advisory commission, but Trikha's appointment drew the most attention because
the planning commission, unlike other city commissions, makes decisions that are
not purely advisory.

"It truly comes down to the fact that the citizens, at least by one voice on the
planning commission, are being governed by a foreign national," said former
planning commission chairman Ed Unger, who was bumped from the commission when
Trikha was chosen. "An awful lot of people in this country for hundreds of years
have fought and died for this country to ensure we were not governed by a
foreign national. I won't stand for it, I'll tell you right now."

None of the speakers at Tuesday's council meeting tied the citizenship issue to
the current wave of concern over immigration, which has led to such measures as
the Save Our State initiative, also on the November ballot. If passed, it would
cut off social services, including schooling, to illegal immigrants and their
children.

Some in the audience argued eloquently against a citizenship requirement.

"You can be a city manager, a city attorney, a police chief, hold any
responsible job in the state, without being a citizen," said Trikha, who has
lived in Milpitas for 10 years. While immigrants often immediately contribute to
their communities, he said, citizenship lags years behind -- five years before
an immigrant may apply and another two years for processing, if all goes
smoothly.

Council members said they feared the issue would fester, dividing the city's
immigrants and established residents. The solution, they decided, is to put it
to a public vote. City Clerk Gail Blalock said adding the measure to the
November ballot will cost the city about $1,500.

The measure on the ballot, which will be binding, will ask whether Milpitas
voters want appointees to commissions and boards to be registered voters in the
city. That ensures three things: that the appointees are citizens, that they are
over 18 and that they are not convicted felons.

The measure would allow sitting commissioners who are not registered voters,
such as Trikha, to retain their posts and even to be reappointed. Commissioners
who lose their voting status, however, could be required to resign.

"The way to stop the pot from boiling is to put it before the voters," Vice
Mayor Bob Livengood said. "The voters will speak, and the council will assume
that position."

Councilwoman Barbara Lee, the council's strongest proponent of a citizenship
requirement, said she is "very comfortable" with that course.

McHugh, however, voted against a ballot measure. "I think this is not going to
serve the city well," he predicted. "It will be misused, and it will be
misunderstood."

Ironically, the people most affected by the measure -- non-citizens -- will not
only be barred from voting in the election but also, Blalock said, are
prohibited under federal election law from contributing financially to political
campaigns.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 25, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE RIGHT TO SERVE DON'T BAN NON-CITIZEN VOLUNTEERS FROM CITY COMMISSIONS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 381 words


THEY are, by most measures, typical Milpitans who pay taxes, send their children
to local schools, endure the freeways and pay mortgages or rent.

Only one thing sets legal immigrants apart from United States citizens: They
cannot vote in elections. In the traditional sense, they could be called
powerless. But not in Milpitas, where immigrants make up 20 percent of the
population. Legal immigrants may serve on Milpitas city commissions and help
decide matters small and large, from painting park benches to locating new
housing.

Now that privilege may be yanked. When Mayor Pete McHugh named an East Asian to
the planning commission, he sparked an eruption of patriotism, or anti-immigrant
fervor, or both. The result is an initiative on the Milpitas ballot that asks if
appointments to the planning commission ought to be restricted to registered
voters.

Proponents of the ban argue that having immigrants on commissions renders
citizenship meaningless, subjects citizens to governance by foreign nationals,
and is a slap in the face to immigrants who naturalize. It's a patriotic
argument, but it melts when measured against the community service of
immigrants.

This is not about giving non-citizens the vote, although history offers an
argument even for that. Until World War I, nearly half of the states allowed
immigrants to vote. Aliens enjoyed voting rights that millions of citizens --
blacks and women -- did not.

The real question in Milpitas is: Should immigrants help shape the character and
future of an American town?

Immigrants already do that. They volunteer at senior centers, schools, parks and
other places that define life in Milpitas. They belong to business associations,
charities and labor unions. They raise children who are Americanized to the max.

Many plan on becoming citizens, but the wait is at least five years. Even those
who don't, usually for emotional ties to their homeland, eventually pay less
attention to politics there than they do to the needs of Milpitas.

The only real difference between legal immigrant residents and citizens is the
ability to vote. When it comes to planting roots, making communities safe, and
helping neighbors, immigrants are as American as can be. They deserve seats on
any city commission.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 31, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONTROVERSIAL BAGS NOW WILL AID SALVADORAN BOY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: San Rafael


A Salvadoran boy whose story of crossing the U.S. border generated anti-
immigrant hostility when printed on a shopping bag may receive a college
education out of the controversy.

The boy's harrowing story of crossing deserts and rivers was printed on 40,000
shopping bags as part of United Market's effort to boost local schools and
students.

But some customers threatened to boycott and picket the store, saying the owners
were encouraging illegal immigration.

That hostility embarrassed many Marin County residents, who pride themselves on
their community's tolerance.

"Marin County, as opposed to Orange County, has always had a reputation for
sophisticated, tolerant people living here," Bill Bagley, a University of
California regent and former assemblyman, said Friday.

Now Bagley and Jody Becker, head of the county's mediation services, have opened
a college fund for the boy, whose identity was not made public because of his
immigration status.

The fund, called "Civility in Marin" and seeded with $1,000 of their own money,
was opened at the Bank of Marin and New Horizons Savings and Loan.

Bagley said he hopes to raise $10,000 to $20,000 in the next month.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See also related story on this page.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 4, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

POLICE TOUR ALLAYS VIETNAMESE MISTRUST

BYLINE: BETTY BARNACLE, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 429 words


With 60,000 Vietnamese-Americans calling San Jose home, it's old news that the
city's latest immigrants have problems relating to police because of corrupt law
enforcement in their native land.

But their traditional fears were blunted as a group of 30 comparative newcomers
toured San Jose police headquarters at 201 W. Mission St.

At the beginning of Wednesday's tour, some of the visitors who've been in this
country three months to a year looked uncomfortable, even wary.

An hour later, there was a noticeable difference among the members of YES --
Youth Empowered for Success -- one of the immigration, refugee and youth
services of Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County.

Maybe it was all the smiling, nodding, uniformed officers they passed in the
halls. Grins which don't need translating soon were returned.

Perhaps it was the carefully illustrated explanations of how police here help
citizens, from taking information about a crime at the front desk to solving it
in the detective bureau.

But by the time the group was sitting in a patrol briefing room, the members
were relaxed and enjoying themselves.

Long Le, 26, an assembly worker, wrestled a bit with the words before explaining
what he got from the tour.

"I come here to learn about police," Le said. "Next time, anything happen, I'll
come to them."

With a little help from YES staffers, Phuc Tran said he didn't know anything
about U.S. police before his visit. But the 22-year-old Evergreen Community
College student, who's trying to master English, said the tour showed him how
easy it was to ask officers for help.

Ben Le, one of the the year-old YES program's more than 30 volunteers, said
group leaders decided their clients should learn how to communicate with police
to avoid becoming crime statistics, especially in home invasions that plague the
Vietnamese community.

The organization, which has more than 1,000 "graduates" and currently serves
over 500 at-risk immigrant youths, stresses gang prevention, helps with job
placement and offers classes in English and vocational training.

Assistant Chief Tom Shigemasa said goodbye to the visitors.

"I hope you understand we are here to help, that we are real people, not like on
TV where police knock people down," he said.

Shigemasa thanked the group for coming and made a recruitment pitch.

"San Jose has more Vietnamese officers -- 15 to 20 of them -- than any other
city in the nation," he said. "To provide police protection to our large
Vietnamese population, we need police who speak the language. "

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 9, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORT IMMIGRANTS? LET'S DEPORT PETE WILSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 334 words


I am sick and tired of the mean-spirited and hypocritical immigrant bashing
legislation and hysteria driving our political process these days. It's time to
wake up an smell the frijoles.

We must accept the facts that surround immigration and stop being duped by
senseless politicians escaping their responsibilities to provide real solutions
for our state's problems.

We must recognize the racism involved and that Latinos, especially Mexicans, are
the real target of immigrant bashing. As far as Mexican immigration is
concerned, our government obtained California (and most of the southwest) at the
point of a gun after the United States forced a war with Mexico in 1846 with the
sole purpose of stealing its territory. Isn't immigration a small price to pay
for prospering, living and working in this beautiful state?

Why is there so much commotion about the so-called illegality of immigrants from
Mexico, a phenomenon that has gone on since this land was Mexico? Why isn't
anyone screaming about our labor laws that are routinely broken by employers who
exploit immigrant workers? Politicians do not have the guts to address the greed
and power of employers who attract the cheap labor to this state. They chose to
prey on helpless immigrants.

The fact of the matter is none of these immigrant-scapegoating initiatives being
proposed will do anything to curb immigration because they are designed to get
people elected by perpetuating racist myths that immigrants come here to collect
welfare, health care and education for their children. Initiatives such as the
Save Our State initiative do nothing to address the real causes of illegal
immigration.

California is a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic place with a Mexicano history that
we should be proud of. Let's not be suckers and allow ourselves to be divided
and diverted. If anyone should be deported it should be Pete Wilson for leading
this state to the worst conditions since the Great Depression.

-- Mike Garcia

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: CATHERINE KANNER -- LOS ANGELES TIMES
940809 ED 6B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 11, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PICK AN UNPOPULAR JOB

BYLINE: GEORGE WILL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: San Diego


HERE, HARD BY Mexico, the debate about immigration rages. But it is silting up
with misunderstandings, according to Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for
U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California, San Diego.

He believes one of today's problems is too much rather than too little
"assimilation." Certainly the nightmare of many immigrant parents is that their
children are becoming too much like Americans.

The alleged resistance to assimilation is the basis of the criticism of current
immigration. In their essay "Should Immigrants Assimilate?" in The Public
Interest, Alejandro Portes of Johns Hopkins and Min Zhou of Louisiana State
University note that children of non-white immigrants usually live close to
inner city minority youths who have an "adversarial stance" toward white
mainstream culture. And "joining those native circles to which they do have
access may prove a ticket to permanent subordination and disadvantage." The
subculture of marginalized native-born youths often instills "skepticism about
the value of education as a vehicle for advancement, a message that directly
contradicts that from immigrant parents."

Cornelius agrees. "Pick your indicator," he says. School dropout rates?
Involvement in gangs? Indicators are apt to become worse as "assimilation" of
young inner city immigrants becomes "better." Cornelius says America's aversion
to immigration rises as the "first generation effect" wanes among immigrants.
That effect is the shaping of young people by conservative families with faith
in education and the work ethic. Indeed, immigrant parents in cities are
terrified of what their children are apt to learn at school: sex, drugs, petty
crime.

The idea that millions of immigrant parents are resisting assimilation is,
Cornelius says, a myth. "Cultural maintenance" of the immigrants' old identity
is more apt to be a goal of white American intellectuals than of immigrants.
"Lack of English," says Cornelius, "is the single most important factor working
against improvement of immigrants' economic condition -- and they know it."

Immigrant parents who remain monolingual do so primarily for two reasons.
Working dawn to dusk, they are too exhausted to attend "ESL" -- English as a
second language -- classes. And there is an acute shortage of such classes.

The rising aversion to immigration masks Americans' ambivalence about
immigration, ambivalence rooted in economic rather than cultural calculations.
There always will be, Cornelius says, jobs that "Americans do not raise their
kids to do." It is, for example, rare to see white Americans working in a car
wash or picking melons in a field. Chances are, a non-white will wash the dishes
in a Southern California restaurant. There are similar realities in other
industrial nations. Japan's 300,000 illegal immigrants are less than 0.5 percent
of the workforce but are indispensable to Japan's economy because Japanese
parents, even more than American parents, do not want their children performing
some work that society wants performed. In Spain, child care is done largely by
Dominicans and Peruvians.

Americans, says Cornelius, would prefer that immigrants do their jobs and then
disappear at the end of the day. But they won't, and Americans won't do without
the work the immigrants do. So Americans, conflicted and with slightly guilty
consciences about immigration, will, he says, continue to be wrong -- sometimes
willfully -- about facts and their inferences from them.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
George Will is a Washington Post columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 17, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A GREEN START TO A NEW LIFE IMMIGRANTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD WORK ON
CONSERVATION CORPS PROJECTS IN SAN JOSE.

BYLINE: DICK EGNER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: EAST EXTRA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words


Imram Hassan and Abdifatah Ahmed didn't know each other in Somalia. But last
week, along with immigrants from Vietnam and Mexico, the two worked together
protecting the environment in San Jose's Alum Rock Park.

Hassan and Ahmed, both 19, were part of a San Jose Conservation Corps 11- member
crew erecting a retaining wall to keep soil from sliding into Penitencia Creek
in order to increase the run of steelhead trout.

Crew members working at the park last Wednesday represented a near- microcosm of
the ethnic makeup of the corps. Funded by the California Department of
Conservation and private foundations, it enrolls 120 members, ages 18 to 23,
through the year and an additional 100 during the summer.

Other countries represented by current enrollees include Cambodia, Laos, several
in South America, Portugal, Ireland and New Guinea, said Executive Director Bob
Hennessy.

"People send word to those countries through agencies and individuals that the
South Bay is an attractive place to live. Their friends tell them the corps is a
good program, what they get here, and here they come."

There can be a waiting list of up to 10 months, he said.

Hassan, who is from northern Somalia, has been in San Jose eight months and
expects to attend San Jose City College beginning in January. Ahmed, from
southern Somalia, has lived here seven months and, after graduating from the
corps in three months, expects to join the San Jose Job Corps, a similar,
federally funded program.

As they gathered 2-inch-diameter rocks that other crew members would cement onto
the wall, they were joined by Ha Nguyen, 20, who came here from Ho Chi Minh
City, Vietnam, five years ago.

Nguyen has been in the corps for three months and is taking drafting and
computer courses at San Jose State University.

Also gathering rocks was Monica Cortes, 22, who came here two years ago from
Guanajuato, Mexico. She has been in the corps for one year and expects to begin
study of computers at San Jose City College in January.

Forty-five percent of the corps members are of Hispanic background and 40
percent Asian, Hennessy said. Not all are recent immigrants; an estimated 35
percent have been living in this area for some time. Eight to 10 of the members
each year have either run away from home or been kicked out.

Highway 87 project

All are from low-income or very low-income households, and most read below the
sixth-grade level. None is here illegally.

Earlier this year, the corps finished a joint project with the city to plant
5,000 15-gallon trees along the Highway 87 corridor. The corps' portion
consisted of 3,500 trees; 1,500 trees were planted by Our City Forest volunteers
at schools and parks.

Other corps jobs are building and repairing trails and building fences in city
and county parks; revegetation and landscaping in conjunction with the Santa
Clara Valley Water District; cleaning debris from the Guadalupe and Coyote
rivers; installing play areas at parks in cities near San Jose; and removing
graffiti in nearby cities.

Strict rules

Corps members are paid an initial hourly wage of $4.75, which rises to $5.25
after six months. They work four days and take English As A Second Language and
other courses on the fifth day. They have a General Education Diploma when they
graduate from the corps, usually after 11 months.

"Everyone enrolls for a year," Hennessy said. "If they get a regular job sooner,
they can leave. If they don't perform, they're terminated." Chronic tardiness is
the second major reason for termination, he said.

"We have strict rules," Hennessy said, against non-punctuality, non- attendance,
refusal to work, drugs and alcohol, and violence and threats. "We stress that
you've got to have the work ethic," he said.

A small number of corps members are promoted to recycling drivers and crew
leaders during a second year and are paid more. Forty percent of the corps work
involves recycling material collected from multi-office buildings, schools and
restaurants. It is sorted in a yard at corps headquarters and sold.

Prospect of college

Some corps workers also get jobs at County Transit, in warehouses and with
delivery, landscaping and irrigation companies. About 15 percent go on to
college.

Last year, under a one-year grant from Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 58 corps
graduates attended either college or the county occupational training center at
760 Hillsdale Ave. About half were young women, including three who took nursing
training. "They did remarkably well," Hennessy said.

"It's amazing how many of our kids go to school four nights a week, a couple
(of) hours each night, advancing themselves in English and math and so on. We
certainly support that."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Also ran in E1: 11, E2: 8, E4: 1

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM -- MERCURY NEWS
Abdifatah Ahmed, left, and Jose Carate work on a corps project.
940817 EA 1 1; color
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM -- MERCURY NEWS
California Conservation Corps workers Imram Hassan, Abdifatah Ahmed and Martin
Ramec work on a retaining wall at Alum Rock Park.
940817 EA 2 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 18, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

TIDE OF CUBANS SWAMPS FLORIDA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: Key West, Fla.


Gov. Lawton Chiles today declared an immigration emergency and urged a reluctant
federal government to help Florida cope with the largest migration from Cuba
since the 1980 Mariel boat-lift.

"There are hundreds of people, perhaps thousands, massing on the shores of
Cuba," and Fidel Castro is making no effort to stop them from leaving, Chiles
said. "The Castro government is clearly weakening and the day of freedom in Cuba
is near."

Chiles urged Cubans to remain in their homeland. He said the rising tide of
refugees crossing the Florida Straits threatened to overwhelm the ability of
state and local officials to provide housing, health care and other services to
the immigrants.

"A true emergency exists for the state of Florida," he said.

In Washington, Attorney General Janet Reno said she saw no need to provide a
large amount of additional federal help. Reno spoke before Chiles' news
conference, but the former South Florida prosecutor has her staff in constant
contact with Chiles' office.

Reno warned against being "melodramatic." She told her weekly news conference
that "we have been able to manage the increased flow arriving from Cuba during
the last several days in an orderly way and without disruption to the
community."

White House representative Dee Dee Myers suggested today that the United States
was working on a plan to deal with the exodus, but provided no details. "We will
not permit another Mariel-type boat-lift and secondly, we will not allow Fidel
Castro to dictate our immigration policy," she told reporters.

Chiles asked federal authorities to immediately activate their emergency plan
for dealing with the massive influx of refugees from the Communist-ruled island
90 miles from Key West. He urged Washington to increase the number of Navy ships
in the Florida Straits.

"I am hopeful that we will see some response by the end of the day," the
governor said at a late-morning news conference at a U.S. Coast Guard base.

Ninety miles south, Cuban journalists who spoke to the Associated Press by phone
said refugees were setting off openly from beaches and harbors around Havana
with no apparent interference from police.

After a day of rioting in Havana early this month, Castro threatened to allow
Cubans to leave the island at will if the United States did not reverse its
policy of allowing Cubans to immigrate here without restriction. Since that
threat, the U.S. Coast Guard has rescued a steadily increasing number of Cubans
from a ragtag flotilla of flimsy boats and homemade rafts.

Reno held out hope of only a slight increase in federal involvement. She said 26
extra immigration agents have been sent to Key West and by Friday a total of 86
agents will be specifically assigned to these cases.

"Of the people who have arrived, 90 percent of the individuals have been settled
with relatives in the United States," Reno said, "75 percent in Florida and 15
percent in primarily New York and New Jersey. The 10 percent with no relatives
in the United States are being placed outside of Florida."

Asked whether Florida could expect additional federal aid, Reno pointed out that
the state already is getting $44 million this fiscal year to help pay for
refugees that use schools, hospitals and social services.

The Coast Guard picked up 537 Cubans on Wednesday, the highest single-day total
since Mariel brought 125,000 people to Florida in five months. Tuesday, the
agency rescued 339 Cubans and Monday 282. So far this year, 6,872 Cubans have
arrived, compared with 3,656 in 1993.

"This is not a manageable situation -- not for Florida, not for Monroe County.
We want to see a federal response," Chiles declared. A Coast Guard cutter was in
the background as he spoke, with Cuban refugees waiting on board to be processed
by U.S. immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reuters contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Same photo ran in Morning Final edition story with SAILING AWAY FROM CUBA
AT 91

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 19, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FROM CUBA, A FLOOD THEY SHOULD BE TREATED LIKE OTHER FOREIGNERS WITHOUT VISAS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 397 words


CUBAN "rafters" are washing up on Florida beaches in record numbers. Florida
yearns for federal money to pay for strained social services. Does this scene
look familiar?

No, Florida has not been hit by a flood of political refugees from a Cold War
outpost. Things have changed. The Soviet Union is history. Soviet subsidies for
Cuba are gone. Fidel Castro's not even smoking cigars anymore. Today's Cubans
are looking for jobs.

Californians should recognize the syndrome: illegal immigrant overload.
Washington should treat Cuban rafters like any other foreigners without visas.
The Cuban rafter count has gone up dramatically. Nearly 60 rafters arrived in
1988. This week, Florida officials said nearly 6,000 had come this year. On
Wednesday, the Coast Guard picked up 537 more.

Castro blames the United States. Under a Reagan era agreement, Washington agreed
to take as many as 20,000 Cuban immigrants a year. But only a couple of thousand
visas are granted each year. Meanwhile, any Cuban who survives a risky boat or
plane ride to Florida is welcomed with open arms.

No wonder Castro is fuming. Were the United States to award all 20,000 visas a
year, he could probably get rid of a lot of critics quietly and safely. If
Washington were seriously concerned about his critics' welfare, all 20,000 visas
would be granted. The policy appears designed mostly to embarrass him.

That may be an anti-Castro fanatic's idea of fun; it's not good foreign policy.
It forces many Cubans to risk their lives to leave. It sets a double standard on
the grounds of race, in a country divided over racism. Cubans (mostly white) are
welcomed while Haitians (mostly black) are turned back.

The political system in Cuba hasn't changed, but the post-Soviet economy is in a
tailspin. Most Cubans who want out now are running from poverty.

An updated Cuba policy would put Cuba in the same category as, say, China. Both
have political systems we dislike, and millions of poor citizens.

Let Americans travel to and trade freely with Cuba, as they do with China. If
that helps Cuba's economy, good. Cubans who can make a decent living inside Cuba
will not be desperate to jump the watery U.S. border.

Meanwhile, give visa-less Chinese or Cubans -- or anyone else -- a due process
hearing to see if they qualify for political asylum. If they don't, give them a
free ride home.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 20, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT TEENS RUN AGENCY TO HELP OTHERS LOCATE WORK

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Vinh Hoang used to spend his summers working in the back room of an office. But
this summer, he's running the front office.

Hoang and nine other teen-agers, mostly recent immigrants, are running an
employment agency that helps other immigrants find and apply for jobs.

"Here I get to do more things," said Hoang, who maintains the job postings.
Thuong Nguyen said she can sympathize with clients because she remembers the
difficulties of making the transition into a new life in the United States.

"Sometimes when they interview for one job, they're very scared, so I tell them
it's OK," said Thuong Nguyen, 18.

One of Nguyen's successes was helping a Vietnamese teen-ager get into the city's
youth training program.

"She didn't know a lot of people and didn't know much English," Nguyen said.
"Now we're friends."

The agency staffers scan the classified pages and employment hot lines for jobs,
assist clients with resumes and prepare them for interviews.

Since June, the teens have helped process more than 200 applications and have
found employment for 16 clients in positions such as cart collector at the San
Francisco International Airport, janitor and factory worker. Two of the clients
were previously on welfare.

Phat Ta, 28, went to the agency in June and now works for a T-shirt company.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 20, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NAVY DROPS PLANS FOR IMMIGRANT JAIL

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 70 words


The Navy has shelved plans to let the Immigration and Naturalization Service use
a portion of Treasure Island as a detention center for undocumented immigrants.
The move came after the San Francisco Board of Supervisors passed a resolution
saying the city opposed the plan. San Francisco will take control of Treasure
Island on Oct. 1, 1997, under the federal government's conversion of military
bases to civilian use.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 21, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CROSSINGS FROM MEXICO DWARF CUBAN EXODUS

BYLINE: JAMES R. CARROLL, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: Washington


The number of refugees who fled Cuba in boats last week does not represent even
a busy day along the U.S. border with Mexico, where an average of 3,200 people
are arrested daily for trying to enter this country illegally.

The U.S. Coast Guard picked up 2,000-plus people in the waters off Cuba last
week, creating a near-crisis atmosphere in the Clinton administration.

Yet neither the administration nor Congress is treating the Mexican border
breakdown, where about 1.1 million illegal entrants are caught every year, as
anything like a crisis.

In reality, the numbers have little to do with the way the United States handles
its twin immigration problems with Mexico and Cuba. The contrasts in policy are
rooted in politics, history, geography and public perceptions.

And while President Clinton announced an abrupt end Friday to the policy that
has granted easy asylum to Cubans, there's still a big difference from the
policy with Mexico.

"The big difference is we are prepared to send Mexicans back to Mexico and we
are not prepared to send Cubans back to Cuba," said Jack Martin, research
director for the non-partisan Center for Immigration Studies.

Since the day in 1959 when Fidel Castro first took power, people fleeing Cuba
have been viewed as political refugees from a repressive regime. Cubans have
been given special legal treatment, too, notably the Cuban Adjustment Act of
1986, which essentially permits Cubans who can find their way here to stay here.

Cuba also has no formal diplomatic relations with the United States. It remains
a last vestige of the Cold War, a communist nation in a world being swept by
democracy, as Clinton reminded Americans during his news conference Friday.

Mexico, on the other hand, enjoys normal diplomatic relations with the United
States. Despite the immigration problems, the United States considers the
nation's government legitimate. Mexicans who try to come here illegally are
driven by economic factors, not political considerations, and therefore are not
eligible under U.S. law to stay.

The Clinton administration's newly announced policy to detain Cubans but not
allow them to settle in the United States is aimed not only at discouraging
Cubans from fleeing, but also at keeping the pressure on Castro.

Another key difference between the Cuban and Mexican situations is that Florida
Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, threatened to call out the National Guard to
deal with the boats landing on his state's beaches.

Politicians in California have suggested deploying the National Guard along the
Mexican border but have never pushed the matter -- in part, some privately
acknowledge, because Mexico could view the move as a hostile act that would
strain relations with the United States.

Martin said he had detected one link between the Cuban and Mexican immigration
problems, one with potentially ominous implications.

"Mexicans in small but fast-growing numbers have been asking for asylum status
in the United States (like the Cubans) because they've learned it's the way to
get a work permit," Martin said. "That's a scary prospect, because if it ever
became widespread, the current backlog of a half-million asylum applications
could quickly double."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 1994

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 8/22/94, pg. 4A)
Because of a reporting error by the Mercury News Washington bureau, the year of
the Cuban Adjustment Act was incorrectly stated Sunday. It was enacted in 1966.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 22, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUBA NOW IT'S TIME TO WRITE NEW RULES ABOUT REFUGEES AND TRADE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 321 words


PRESIDENT Clinton has finally taken down the "Welcome All" sign for Cuban
refugees. The new sign says "Welcome . . . but stand in line with everyone
else."

The Cuba policy Clinton is modifying was outdated when he inherited it. Next,
the rest of the policy -- the embargo, the travel ban -- should go.

Rafting to the United States used to mean a Cuban's salvation. Rafters were
immediately released into the community and granted legal residency. Now rafters
who reach U.S. shores will be detained for the same immigration hearings as any
other undocumented foreigners. Rafters picked up in the Straits of Florida will
be sent to the U.S. military base at Guantanamo Bay while Washington asks other
countries to offer them sanctuary.

It's time Cubans were treated the same as other would-be immigrants. With the
Soviet sugar daddy gone, Cuba is no longer an ideological threat. Some Cubans
are still running from Castro's police, but most are running from his failed
economy.

Cuba now should be treated like China: a country whose political system we don't
like, but whose populace we aren't obligated to shelter or welcome as citizens.
Travel to Cuba should be allowed, and trade should be free. Then Cubans won't
need to raft to Florida just for a job.

Unfortunately, Clinton vehemently supports the trade embargo, a position
designed to win votes from Florida's fanatic anti-Castroites. Reversing course
now would batter his already damaged foreign policy credibility.

But Florida may soon realize that restoring trade with Cuba is in its own best
interests. Florida's panic over the rush of refugees -- overshadowing the old
anti-Castro taboo -- convinced Clinton to change refugee policy. Floridians now
must be convinced that the United States can either trade with Cuba or keep
towing the rafts back. Then Clinton will have a mandate to make a policy U-turn,
while keeping his credibility intact.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 22, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEWCOMERS GET HELP FROM TEENS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 213 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Recent immigrants are getting help in the job market from an unusual employment
program run by 10 teen-agers, many of whom are newcomers themselves. Since June,
the teens have helped process more than 200 applications and found employment
for 16 clients in positions such as cart collector at the San Francisco
International Airport, janitor and factory worker. Two clients were previously
on welfare.

Thuong Nguyen, 18, said she can sympathize with clients because she remembers
the difficulties of making the transition into a new life in the United States.
"Sometimes when they interview for one job, they're very scared, so I tell them
it's OK," Nguyen said.

One of Nguyen's successes was helping a Vietnamese teen-ager get into the city's
youth training program. "She didn't know a lot of people and didn't know much
English," Nguyen said. "Now we're friends."

The agency staff scan the classified pages and employment hot lines for jobs,
assist clients with resumes and prepare them for interviews.

"There's so much down talk about immigrants and refugees. I think (these kids)
are making a good dent in the unemployment picture," said Roger Bartlett,
executive director of the non-profit Mutual Assistance Association Council,
which supervises the teens.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 23, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEELING OF HOME DRAWS S.J. ASIANS TO NEIGHBORHOOD

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1042 words


At first glance, the townhouse development in the North San Jose neighborhood
looks like a hundred other pastel housing tracts in the city.

Then you notice the street signs:

Peking Drive. Shanghai Circle. Hong Kong Drive. Taipei Drive.

San Jose developer Jerry Chen's 3-year-old Berryessa Villa II is designed to
make Asian immigrants feel at home. And it apparently has worked.

"It's just like living in Taiwan," said Villa resident Yvonne Huang, who loves
the fact that her elderly mother can walk safely to two nearby shopping centers
that house a dozen ethnic restaurants, an Asian supermarket, a Mandarin cultural
center, Vietnamese and Chinese bookstores and ginseng shops.

A Mercury News computer projection shows that Berryessa Villa II is in the heart
of the most Asian census tract in the city -- 60.9 percent of its residents are
Asian-Americans or recent Asian immigrants, up from 58.5 percent four years ago,
when the last census was taken. The Asian population in an adjacent census tract
east of Lundy Avenue has grown from 48.4 percent to 51.7 percent since the 1990
census, the projection shows.

Together, the tracts make up the most Asian neighborhood in San Jose, a city
that is now projected to be 22.9 percent Asian, up from 19.5 percent in 1990.
The projections are based on demographic trends such as immigration patterns and
birth and death rates.

Real estate agents say the neighborhood north of Berryessa Road between Coyote
Creek and Interstate 880 is becoming more Asian every month, as fairly recent
immigrants move into new housing subdivisions or replace older white couples who
are retiring or moving because of job transfers.

"From my own experience, 80 percent of the sellers listing properties are
Caucasian," said Suki Yee, a Korean-American agent who lives in the
neighborhood. "And 70 to 80 percent of the buyers are Asian."

Real estate agents say people of Asian descent are moving to the neighborhood
because they like the airy, open designs of the newer homes and the proximity to
the two shopping centers.

"If a house is dark, the people inside are more depressed and gloomy," said
Debbie Grewal, an agent of Indian descent. "Many Asians think it's healthier if
the house is bright and cheerful. And this is the only neighborhood in (North
San Jose) that has newer homes."

T. Chester Wang, chairman of Pacific Rim Financial Corp., spotted the changing
demographics several years ago. In 1989, he persuaded 99 Ranch Market -- a Buena
Park-based supermarket chain that specializes in Asian food -- to open a store
in the area after mainstream chains weren't interested. Once Wang had an anchor
store, the rest just fell into place.

The 75,000-square-foot Pacific Rim Plaza opened at Lundy Avenue and Hostetter
Road in 1991. The teal-roofed center was such an instant success that Wang and
his brother, Stanley, decided to expand it across Hostetter Road. Pacific Rim
Plaza II opened in March. The Wangs estimate 70 percent of the customers are
Asian or Asian-American.

"The shopping centers are really bringing people in," said Cathy Ordonez, sales
representative for the 117-unit Berryessa Villa II.

She estimates about 70 percent of the townhouse buyers are Asian immigrants --
most of them Chinese. Most of the other Asians in the area come from the
Philippines and Vietnam.

About half of the people buying Villa homes are professional couples in their
30s, Ordonez said. "And in most cases the parents are coming" to the United
States, she said. "So the buyers like the idea that their parents won't have to
depend on anyone" to drive them to the store.

The neighborhood, which has easy access to interstates 880 and 680, is a mixture
of single-family homes (it's not unusual to see 2,500-square-foot homes built on
4,100-square-foot lots), condominiums and townhouses. Condos can be had for as
little as $140,000. But some of the bigger homes are selling for $350,000.

The neighborhood's biggest drawback, agents say, is the schools -- although many
residents are happy the Orchard School District in June passed a bond measure to
build a desperately needed building to eliminate overcrowding.

But many parents in the area don't like the idea that their teen-agers will
attend Independence High School in the East Side Union School District. They say
the school has too many gangs.

"That's why I'm moving to Fremont," said Monica Madden, one of Berryessa Villa
II's few black residents. "I have a 14-year-old daughter who's going to high
school next year."

As far as she's concerned, the high school was the area's only down side. "I
like ethnically mixed neighborhoods for my children," said Madden, a program
coordinator at a Santa Clara youth shelter. "It gives them a different
perspective on how other people live."

K.P. Chen, Yvonne Huang's husband, agreed: "There's Chinese from Hong Kong,
Taiwan, Malaysia and Burma. There's a Mexican family that lives over there. My
next-door neighbor is from Oklahoma. . . . This is the city of the next
century."

Residents say the neighborhood is safe and virtually free of graffiti.

But Madden and other residents say the neighborhood lacks a sense of community.
"It's not that the people aren't friendly," she said. "It's just that everyone's
so busy. They go to work, come home, go to work."

Arthur Hu, a software engineer who recently moved from the neighborhood to
Renton, Wash., said as far as he could tell, the different ethnic groups get
along great. "But it's not your stereotypical ideal American neighborhood where
all the neighbors know each other," he said. "Everyone is kind of a stranger.
It's more like living in an apartment house."

Pat and Merle Giles of Taproot Court moved into the neighborhood 18 years ago,
when it was mostly prune orchards -- and mostly all white. They have no plans to
move.

Holding a basket of string beans, hot peppers, tomatoes and yellow squash that
he grew in Berryessa Community Garden off Flickinger Avenue, Merle Giles said he
often shops for seafood and produce at the 99 Ranch Market.

"I know it wasn't put there for my people, but the Asians have the best seafood
in the world," he said.

"In the garden," Pat Giles said, "we're all the same."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Diagram;
PHOTO: RICHARD HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Janel Madden, 10, and April Rombawa, 9, take a break after brightening the
sidewalk with chalk art.
940823 LO 1B 1; color
PHOTO:
Monica Madden says she likes living in an ethnically mixed area.
940823 LO 1B 2; color
DIAGRAM: Mercury News
San Jose's Pacific Rim
A North San Jose neighborhood between Coyote Creek and Interstate 680, made up
of two census tracts, is now home to the highest concentration of Asian-
Americans and Asian emigres in San Jose. Since the 1990 census, a Mercury News
computer projection shows, the population in one census tract west of Lundy
Avenue is now 60.9 percent Asian, compared with 58.5 percent in 1990. The tract
east of Lundy is 51.7 percent Asian, up from 48.4 percent four years ago.
Source: Mercury News research analyst Nadine Selden

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 24, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHO IS A REFUGEE? CUBAN RAFTERS IN SAME BOAT AS MEXICANS AND HAITIANS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 401 words


UNTIL now, a hungry Cuban was a political refugee from Communism. The United
States government was happy to take him in and subsidize his transition to U.S.
citizenship -- even as it put poor Haitians in detention camps and shipped
destitute Mexicans back to Mexico.

Cubans had gotten favored treatment since 1959. Ostensibly, it was because they
fled communism. Not coincidentally, the Reagan and Bush administrations were
happy to welcome new U.S. voters who would be conservative and Republican.

With a Democratic president in office and Russia no longer able to prop up Fidel
Castro, Washington suddenly is more discriminating about Cubans who arrive in
rafts and boats. Unless they can prove otherwise, they're being treated as
economic immigrants, which drastically reduces their chances of getting in.

That puts the Cubans on the same uphill playing field as Mexicans, Haitians and
others who want to come here to make a better life. It also shows how arbitrary
our system can be in classifying some would-be newcomers as political refugees
and others as economic.

Until last week, Cubans, almost by definition, were treated as political
refugees. Virtually overnight, without any change in immigration law, the
Clinton administration decided Cubans were economic refugees. In truth, their
reasons for coming are partly economic and partly political, as often is the
case with immigrants.

The distinction blurs also for Haitians fleeing both abysmal poverty and a
brutal government; are they driven by political or economic motives -- or both?
More important, should we be more concerned in one case than the other? Does a
person oppressed for her political beliefs suffer more nobly, and deserve more
help, than her sister who simply wastes away from malnutrition and lack of
medical care?

Human rights organizations are zealous to preserve the political refugee
category. Given the hundreds of thousands who would like to come for material
reasons, it makes sense to say that some ought to go to the head of the line for
political reasons.

But in many other instances, it no longer is possible to distinguish between
political and economic refugees. Many are both. Whether they are anti-
communists no longer seems a compelling reason to declare them strictly
political -- and give them preference. We need a more clear-eyed means of
determining who gets in and who stays out.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    August 25, 1994 Thursday STREET EDITION

MAKING ROOM FOR SURVIVORS * GUANTANAMO IS BEING EXPANDED TO HOLD UP TO 65,000
REFUGEES FROM CUBA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: Washington


The United States is preparing to house thousands of Cubans -- perhaps up to
65,000 -- at Guantanamo Bay for an indefinite period.

"We are preparing to maintain that base indefinitely, if necessary, until such
time as the people can be repatriated to Cuba," Defense Secretary William Perry
said Wednesday when asked whether the United States would maintain a Cuban
colony at Guantanamo for months or years.

As he spoke, a rush was on to expand detention camps at Guantanamo for 40,000
refugees, and contingency plans were dusted off for housing up to 65,000.

In Havana, Cuban President Fidel Castro charged Wednesday that U.S. immigration
policy and tightening the 30-year-old economic embargo on his regime created the
mass exodus from the island.

In an address on Cuban television as well as CNN, Castro said the U.S. policies
against Cuba "compel illegal immigration . . . the massive exodus." He accused
the United States of "creating a concentration camp at Guantanamo Bay." In a 2
1/2-hour speech broadcast nationwide Wednesday, Castro threw open Cuba's doors
and in effect told his people they were free to leave. Americans could bring
boats to Cuba to pick up family members and even buy fuel there, he said.

Attorney General Janet Reno scoffed at Castro's comments today, telling NBC that
Castro was encouraging the flow of refugees to help himself.

"There is nothing encouraging about Castro," Reno said. "His regime has failed,
his country is in despair and all he does is react in human contemptible terms
by letting his people risk their lives just to ease the pressure on himself."

Since the United States halted automatic asylum for Cubans on Friday, nearly
10,000 people have been picked up from rickety boats and rafts and are on their
way to Guantanamo or are already there.

"We think it will take some days for the Cuban people to realize there is a
change in U.S. policy," Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff said today on CBS.

On Wednesday, the Coast Guard plucked 3,096 Cubans from their crafts -- "mostly
things your children would build when they wanted to go float in the shallows
off the beach somewhere," said Coast Guard Admiral Robert E. Kramek. "They are
taking down their houses to build rafts."

Bad weather spinning through the Caribbean could further imperil thousands of
Cubans trying to cross the 90-mile Florida Straits on anything that floats.

The weather system could bring five- to seven-foot waves and winds up to 23 mph
to the Straits by Friday evening, the National Weather Service warned.

"That could be very treacherous for the kind of crafts these people are in,"
meteorologist Bernard Esposito said. "Definitely, if we're talking seven feet,
look out."

Meanwhile, the administration emphasized anew that refugees setting off by sea
from Cuba's shores have no hope of being allowed in the United States.

"They will absolutely, in no way, have any way of coming to the United States,"
said White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers. But she also said the
administration is "looking at ways to expand legal migration."

Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., called Clinton's policy a failure and
said the administration should call for Fidel Castro's removal from power with
"no conditions, no waffling."

Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., today criticized the administration policy on
Cuba, saying on CBS: "I think its a half-baked policy with little chance of
success unless it is coupled with some strong foreign policy initiatives."

Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., appearing on ABC, said "the world ought to indict and
isolate Castro" and said entering any negotiations with the Cuban leader "would
extend his time of tyranny."

But Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., appearing with Mack, said "some open negotiations
with Castro make sense. Its anachronistic not to do it."

Guantanamo has capacity for 23,000 refugees now and will be expanded to handle
30,000 by week's end, Perry said. By the end of next week, Guantanamo will be
able to accommodate 40,000, he said.

The Pentagon has ordered a review of contingency planning for up to 65,000
refugees at Guantanamo, administration officials said.

The base already houses 14,000 Haitians who fled their country.

The United States rejected Cuba's assertion that the only way to stop the
refugee exodus was for Washington to hold direct talks with the Castro
government on lifting the economic embargo against Havana.

"We see nothing to be gained" from high-level talks, Tarnoff said. "It should be
clear after 35 years to Fidel Castro and his government that the way he has been
managing the affairs of the island is a failure."

Perry acknowledged fears Castro might encourage thousands of Cubans to flood
through the gates of Guantanamo, risking their lives across a mine- filled land.

"We would regard this as being an unfriendly act toward the United States and
would take appropriate actions," said Perry.

The administration has been vague about what will happen to Cubans in the long
term, whether detained at Guantanamo or in other countries. The administration
hopes to reach an agreement to send some refugees to the Turks and Caicos
Islands, Suriname, Panama and other countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 26, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HAVE-NOT HAVANA THE ECONOMY IS ITS PROBLEM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 352 words


HAVANA and Washington are shouting at each other, when the crisis of Cuban
rafters drifting toward Florida calls for calm.

In earlier administrations, Cuba and the United States resolved their
differences through quiet, low-level discussions. To defuse today's crisis, both
governments need to tone down their loud rhetoric and get back to talking.

Discussions should start with immigration. Cuban leader Fidel Castro claims
Cubans are leaving on their dangerous rafts because the United States makes it
hard for them to immigrate legally. The United States has agreed to take up to
20,000 Cuban immigrants each year, yet it grants only a couple of thousand
visas. U.S. officials say that's because Havana makes it hard for Cubans to
apply for visas.

The dispute over immigration should not be hard to resolve. Then the two
governments can talk about what's really bugging Castro, and fueling the exodus
of rafters: economics.

Castro blames the U.S. embargo for killing Cuba's economy. He wants it to end.
President Clinton has answered by tightening the embargo, limiting money
transfers from Americans to Cuban relatives and cutting off flights between the
two countries.

Castro is blowing smoke. Clinton is blowing a chance to update old policy.

Castro's state controls over the economy are to blame for Cuba's economic
problems. The U.S. embargo did hurt Cuba by cutting off access to the U.S.
market, but Castro then failed to build export markets elsewhere. When Soviet
subsidies dried up, so did his economy.

Clinton should be lifting the embargo, not tightening it. Trade would help
revive Cuba's economy, and a reviving Cuba would be less of a U.S. foreign
policy problem than a poor Cuba, disgorging rafters into the Florida Straits.
Besides, Clinton is wrong to think the embargo will topple Castro. The embargo
is not Cuba's real problem; backward economics is. Castro will fall of his own
weight if he fails to get the free market message of the last 20 years.

Presidents Ford and Carter held low-level talks with Havana. Clinton and Castro
need to shout less, and talk more.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 27, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 124 words


Some undocumented immigrants should have an easier time getting "green cards"
because of a new law expected to be signed by President Clinton.

* President Clinton left Friday for Martha's Vineyard to begin a family
vacation.

* The White House nominated Gen. Ronald Fogleman, 52, head of the U.S.
Transportation Command, to be the next Air Force chief of staff; he will replace
Gen. Merrill McPeak, 58, who retires in October.

* The United States will pay $100,000 to family members of each of the 11
foreigners who were killed in April when U.S. Air Force fighter jets mistakenly
shot down two Army helicopters over Iraq. The Pentagon said Defense Secretary
William Perry was authorizing the payments as a humanitarian gesture.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Perry
940827 FR 6A 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 28, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LOOKING AT CUBA LATIN AMERICA CAN'T AGREE ON REFUGEES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: Bogota, Colombia


As the Cuban exodus continued last week, Latin American newspapers lamented the
plight of the refugees, but differed widely on how to solve the problem.

Bogota's El Tiempo urged Colombia and other Latin American countries to accept
fleeing Cubans who have been unable to find refuge in the United States.

"It's a humanitarian gesture," the newspaper said.

Jornal do Brasil, an independent newspaper in Rio de Janeiro, suggested
U.S.-Cuban talks to seek a solution, even if it means reopening the question of
the decades-old U.S. economic embargo of the communist island.

"Only thus can the Caribbean finally dissipate the last clouds of the Cold War,"
the newspaper said. "Better late than never."

The United States has said it may be willing to discuss immigration issues only
with the Cubans. And on Friday in Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina said
his government "wouldn't refuse" discussions under those conditions.

"Cuba wouldn't refuse if, in the strictly immigration area, there is some
interest in having conversations. We would be ready to listen," Robaina said at
a news conference in La Paz, Bolivia.

Brazil's conservative Estado de Sao Paulo said President Clinton made a mistake
by revoking automatic asylum for Cuban refugees. It said the new policy gives
Cuban leader Fidel Castro "a political weapon that can prolong the life of the
regime beyond its natural course."

The government-owned La Nacion of Chile agreed: "It is contradictory that
Clinton claims humanitarian reasons, and at the same time closes the doors to
the victims of the regime he punishes for violating human rights."

The Guyana Chronicle suggested the United States relax sanctions against Cuba in
return for Castro's taking steps toward democracy. The state-owned newspaper
reflects the policy of Guyana's leftist government.

One Mexican newspaper condemned what it said was Latin American apathy toward
Cuba's problems.

"The silence of the rest of Latin America converts it into one more accomplice
in a problem that endangers thousands of people," El Excelsior of Mexico said.
"Breaking this immobility could be a firm step toward real solutions."

Colombia's El Tiempo wondered why Castro has failed to confront Cuba's economic
and political turmoil.

"We would like to put ourselves in the mind of that man . . . to understand what
he thinks about the reality of life on the island which he thought, in the not
too distant past, would become the paradise of Central and Latin America."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reuters contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 1, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. MEETS WITH CUBA ON EXODUS HAVANA WANTS TO OPEN TALKS BEYOND LEGAL
IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: New York


As the exodus of refugees fleeing Cuba escalates, U.S. officials met a
five-member delegation from Havana today to discuss the possibilities of legal
immigration to the United States.

U.S. spokesman David Johnson, briefing reporters after the end of the morning
session, said among the subjects discussed were "legal migration, stopping the
uncontrolled outflow from Cuba and return of those Cuban criminals currently in
United States jails."

This was an apparent reference to reports that Cuba had released some people
from its prisons on condition they join the current exodus -- a charge Cuba
denies.

"As far as tone goes, I'd describe the talks as serious, professional and
businesslike," Johnson said.

He told questioners the talks "are focusing exclusively on migration," which the
United States has insisted should be the only issue.

Earlier, Michael Skol, the chief U.S. delegate at the talks, told reporters
before the meeting started that he expected serious talks on migration.

"We know it is in their interest, as well as in the interest of the United
States, to establish a firm system of legal, safe and orderly migration from
Cuba, to replace what is happening now, which is dangerous, chaotic and unsafe
migration," said Skol, a deputy assistant secretary of state.

The pace of Cubans taking to the sea accelerated today, with 455 migrants
rescued by the U.S. Coast Guard by mid-morning.

On Wednesday, the Coast Guard picked up 2,159 Cubans from small homemade rafts
and boats, pushing the total for the entire month of August to 21,300.

A Coast Guard spokeswoman said the numbers were running slightly ahead of
Wednesday.

"The seas are down today, and it's very clear weather," said spokeswoman Joanna
Parks. "We're prepared for large numbers."

They will be taken to the Navy's base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

Another 23 Cubans walked across their island to Guantanamo on Wednesday. Three
were injured seriously by a Cuban land mine explosion.

Skol rejected suggestions that today's discussions might cover wider issues,
such as lifting the 32-year-old U.S. economic embargo against the Caribbean
island. Cuba has been seeking broader talks.

Cuba's delegate, Ricardo Alarcon, declined comment when he entered the U.S.
mission, which is across First Avenue from the U.N. building protected by a
police booth and concrete barriers to keep car bombers away.

As he left for New York, Alarcon told Cuba's state radio Wednesday that the only
way to stop the exodus was for the United States to end the embargo.

"All they have to do is change that basic issue," said Alarcon, a former foreign
minister and one of Castro's most trusted foreign policy advisers.

The talks were expected to continue in the afternoon and possibly on Friday.
Cuba has said the refugees are fleeing for economic and not political reasons,
but U.S. officials have blamed Cuba's communist policies for the country's
economic hardships.

One Clinton administration official said there were about "100 suspect cases"
among the refugees at Guantanamo Bay. However, the official said they appeared
to be prisoners who served time for minor offenses, such as trying to flee the
island or stealing food.

U.S. officials were outraged 14 years ago when Cuba allowed thousands of
prisoners and mental patients to join the Mariel boatlift in which 125,000
Cubans fled to the United States in five months. Many of those prisoners had
been convicted of violent crimes.

Alarcon dismissed the reports as "preposterous."

So far, President Clinton has continued previous tough policies against Castro,
influenced heavily by leaders of conservative Cuban-American groups in Miami
despite creating difference of opinion among the exiles.

Sen. Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, has urged the Clinton administration to engage in high- level talks
with Cuba.

He said that if the United States could talk to the Chinese, the Vietnamese and
the North Koreans, "we can afford to talk to the Cubans" next door.

"It seems we should open the door for positive influence by expanding contact
with the Cuban people," added Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., chairman of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee.

That might mean lifting a travel ban as well as the ban on the sale of food and
medicine, removing restrictions on communications links and limits on the news
media, and expanding exchange programs for students, athletes, scholars and
journalists.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related story page 9A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cuban rafters pour green dye into the ocean to attract rescuers.
940901 FR 1A PF 2; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   September 1, 1994 Thursday STREET EDITION

U.S., CUBA OPEN TALKS ON EXODUS CASTRO'S ENVOY INSISTS EMBARGO MUST END

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: New York


As the exodus of refugees fleeing Cuba escalates, U.S. officials met a
five-member delegation from Havana today to discuss the possibilities of legal
immigration to the United States.

But Cuba's chief negotiator, Ricardo Alarcon, told reporters that talks on
immigration alone would not solve the crisis without moves to end the 32-year
old economic embargo against the Caribbean nation.

"If they (the United States) want to solve the problem, the only thing they can
do is to change the root policy, end the blockade and put an end to hostility,"
he said before leaving Havana.

So far, U.S. officials have said the talks would be restricted to immigration
issues, although there are increasing calls for broader negotiations and more
flexibility by the Clinton administration.

The only topic on the table is "legal, safe migration," said U.S. delegation
leader Michael Skol, the second-ranking official in the State Department's Latin
American bureau.

The Clinton administration also plans to ask Cuban officials about indications
that Cuba has been releasing prisoners to join the boat people, U.S. officials
in Washington said Wednesday, speaking on condition of anonymity.

One official told the Associated Press there were about "100 suspect cases"
among the refugees at Guantanamo Bay. However, the official said they appeared
to be prisoners who served time for minor offenses, such as trying to flee the
island or stealing food.

U.S. officials were outraged 14 years ago when Cuba allowed thousands of
prisoners and mental patients to join the Mariel boatlift, in which 125,000
Cubans fled to the United States in five months. Many of those prisoners had
been convicted of violent crimes.

Alarcon dismissed the reports as "preposterous." He said those fleeing Cuba were
seeking to escape economic hardships and were not criminals.

The negotiations at the U.S. mission to the United Nations, across the street
from the main U.N. complex, are expected to last two or three days.

The exodus began when Cuban President Fidel Castro no longer stopped those
trying to leave the country following August 5 riots in Havana. Since then more
than 20,000 Cubans have left their homeland, the largest number since the 1980
Mariel boatlift.

On Wednesday, the U.S. Coast Guard picked up 2,044 Cubans in the Florida
Straits, 500 more than on Tuesday when the exodus gained force after a three-
day lull. A Coast Guard representative said search vessels had scooped up 60
Cubans by 2 a.m. EDT today.

Another 23 Cubans walked across their island to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo
on the western tip of the island. Three were injured seriously by a Cuban land
mine explosion.

Alarcon, a former foreign minister and U.N. ambassador who took part in talks
toward a 1984 U.S-Cuban migration pact, said Washington had never fulfilled its
side of the bargain of issuing 20,000 visas each year.

Instead he said the United States had only allowed 2,700 Cubans a year to
migrate legally but encouraged illegal migration by giving automatic asylum to
those who fled.

U.S. officials said earlier this week the Clinton administration wants to
sharply raise the legal immigration figures to coax the refugees to return home
and apply for a visa, with preference given to those who escaped in rafters.

The United States had restricted immigration to between 2,000 and 3,000 Cubans a
year because of a complicated system of preferences worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related story page 9A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: CHARLES TRAINOR JR. -- KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
940901 FR 1A PS 2; color
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cubans pour dye into ocean to attract rescuers, above. Below, a rafter scrambles
onto his capsized craft.
940901 FR 1A PS 1; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  September 2, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. OFFER TO CUBA: HALT EXODUS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: New York


The United States and Cuba met today to consider sharply expanding the number of
visas granted to Cubans, in an effort to stanch the flood of refugees streaming
on flimsy boats toward Florida.

Washington is proposing to let 20,000 legal Cuban immigrants in annually if Cuba
promises to halt the outpouring of its discontented people.

More than 20,000 have tried to cross to Florida in the past month and Cuban
leader Fidel Castro has not tried to stop them, hoping to force the United
States to reconsider its tough policies toward the Communist-ruled island.

Negotiators refused to speak to reporters before the talks began today at Cuba's
U.N. mission, and it was not clear if the two sides were close to an agreement.

Police arrested two demonstrators as pro- and anti-Castro protesters clashed
shortly after U.S. negotiators entered the mission.

Most of the protesters, numbering about 150, were in favor of lifting the
32-year U.S. embargo against Cuba. A smaller number held signs saying "Cuba Si,
Castro No."

U.S. immigration policy permits 27,845 Cubans a year to enter the United States
with visas. But immigration officials never came close to reaching that quota,
and so far this year they have granted just 2,700 visas.

Castro claimed that this was part of a plot to destabilize Cuba by rejecting
visa applicants while welcoming boat people rescued off Florida's shores.

By proposing to fulfill the quota, Washington is doing exactly what Castro
suggested: revising the policy that encouraged illegal flight.

The talks were focusing on migration issues only at the insistence of the U.S.
delegation. Cuba had wanted to broaden the agenda to discuss easing the U.S.
economic embargo and other issues.

"We accepted to discuss migration, but migration is related to many other
things," Ricardo Alarcon, the chief Cuban delegate, said in an interview
Thursday night with ABC.

"I believe that by not addressing the fundamental issue, it will be extremely
difficult to find a real solution," Alarcon said.

Thursday's meeting concentrated on "what the United States believes is a mutual
objective: channeling the desire to immigrate into a legal, safe, orderly
predictable and dependable process," said David Johnson, spokesman for the U.S.
delegation.

In an interview with CNN after the Thursday talks, Alarcon, a senior adviser to
Castro and a former ambassador to the United Nations, said easing the 32-year
U.S. trade embargo against Cuba was critical to halting the exodus.

Both sides made initial presentations Thursday, and the United States focused on
migration, law enforcement and the return of Cuban criminals in U.S. jails,
Johnson said after the talks recessed Thursday.

He did not elaborate about the criminals but was apparently referring to the
1,397 Cubans in U.S. prisons who arrived 14 years ago in the Mariel boatlift
that brought 125,000 Cubans to the United States.

Criminals also are said to be among the more than 20,000 Cubans who fled their
homeland last month in the exodus that prompted the current talks.

The outpouring began when Castro responded to Aug. 5 riots in Havana by
suggesting he would no longer stop Cubans trying to leave.

The mass flight led the United States to change its longstanding policy of
taking in all Cubans. Refugees picked up at sea are now being taken to a camp at
the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The number of Cuban rafters picked up at sea has averaged about 2,000 daily in
recent days with no sign of a slowdown, the U.S. Coast Guard said today. Today's
rescues in the Florida Straits numbered 358 through 10 a.m. EDT.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reuters contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: CANADIAN PRESS
Cubans fleeing their country leave Havana at dusk Thursday. Rafters prefer to
begin their adventure by night because of the heat, in the hope they will be
picked up in the morning by the U.S. Coast Guard.
940902 FR 20A PF 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 2, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. OFFER TO CUBA: STEM REFUGEES, GET MORE VISAS

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS, Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: New York


Hoping to end a refugee crisis that shows no sign of abating, the Clinton
administration Thursday asked Cuba to take action to stem the flow of boat
people.

In return, administration negotiators told Cuban diplomats that the United
States will accept at least 20,000 Cuban immigrants a year, promising in one
sweep to more than quadruple the number of legal entrants into this country,
officials said.

In setting a minimum, negotiators departed from U.S. immigration policy, which
makes available a maximum of 20,000 to 27,000 visas through the U.S. Interests
Section in Havana. Fewer than 3,000 Cubans, however, qualify each year.

The U.S. offer, which was being considered by the Cuban delegation, came during
the first day of immigration talks between the countries aimed at halting an
exodus of rafters that has drawn more than 21,000 Cubans into the Florida Strait
and forced a transformation in U.S. policy toward Cubans fleeing the island.

Officials close to the talks refused to discuss just how they would like to see
Cuban leader Fidel Castro curtail the exodus but indicated distaste at the
prospect he might resume arresting and even jailing would-be rafters.

Cubans jailed for attempting illegal flights are believed to constitute the
largest group of those classified as political prisoners in Cuba.

"We're not telling him how to do it," said the U.S. official. "Obviously, they
have good security forces."

In the Florida Strait, meanwhile, the unprecedented wave of rafters rolled into
a new month.

U.S. vessels once again picked up large numbers of rafters Thursday, though at a
slightly reduced rate from the day before. By the evening, 1,484 had been
plucked from boats, rafts and other vessels.

On Wednesday, the final day of August, 2,159 rafters were picked up -- bringing
the monthly total to 21,300, by far the highest figure since the Mariel boatlift
of 1980.

David Johnson, a spokesman for the U.S. delegation, praised the talks as
"serious, professional and businesslike." After meeting for at least six hours
at the U.S. mission to the United Nations, the negotiations were to resume today
at the Cuban mission.

"There's a reasonably good prospect we'll come out with a deal tomorrow," said
one U.S. official close to the talks.

The Cuban delegation, led by former foreign minister Ricardo Alarcon, left the
talks without comment. But Alarcon told CNN later in the day that the two sides
"still have a long way to go before reaching agreement."

Most of the talks Thursday centered on U.S. presentations. In the morning
session, the administration laid out its position on ways to increase legal
immigration from Cuba, stopping the exodus, and "the return of those Cubans
currently in U.S. jails," Johnson said.

This last issue apparently referred to U.S. efforts to persuade Havana to take
back about 1,500 felons who arrived in the United States during the Mariel
boatlift of more than 125,000 Cubans.

In what became a traumatic experience for Florida, large numbers of violent
criminals were released during the Mariel boatlift. Some remain in U.S. jails.
Recent reports suggest that Cuba is releasing some prisoners on condition they
join the exodus.

Speaking on television before the talks began, Cuba's Alarcon denied the U.S.
reports concerning prisoners.

"I can assure you that that information is preposterous," Alarcon said on NBC's
"Today" program. "It has nothing to do with reality."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: CANADIAN PRESS
Adriana, 20, facing camera, kisses her mother, Yaimi, goodbye Thursday before
boarding a raft leaving Cuba from Nautico Beach.
940902 FR 20A 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 3, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GREEN-CARD DEADLINE EXTENDED UNTIL MARCH

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 75 words


A last-minute rush by permanent resident aliens seeking to replace their old
green cards has caused the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to extend
the deadline. Anyone holding a green card issued before 1979 will now have until
March to apply for a new counterfeit-proof card, INS officials said Friday. The
old cards, which must be replaced with new permanent resident alien
identification cards, had been scheduled to expire Sept. 20.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 3, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUBA'S CALL FOR WIDER TALKS BRINGS MEETING TO A HALT IMMIGRATION DISCUSSIONS TO
RESUME SUNDAY

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: New York


Immigration talks between U.S. and Cuban negotiators stalled Friday evening
after Havana insisted on setting a date for broader political negotiations
between the countries, U.S. officials said.

Participants said they would resume the talks Sunday afternoon, allowing time to
consult with their respective governments.

The Clinton administration, plainly eager to reach a settlement and end the
Cuban refugee crisis, was exploring whether it could meet the demand for future
talks without significantly altering U.S. policy, U.S. officials said.

Criteria for Castro

One possibility being considered by the administration is setting up a list of
criteria for Cuban President Fidel Castro to meet as a precondition to future
talks.

Under this strategy, if Castro were to meet the criteria, which might include
key steps toward democratization and economic liberalization, the talks would
then proceed.

Cuba's insistence on future talks, which had been anticipated and categorically
rejected by administration officials earlier this week, threw a snag into
immigration negotiations just as both sides neared agreement, officials said.

The immigration talks are focusing on a proposal by the United States to vastly
increase the number of Cubans who would be granted entry through legal means if
Havana agreed to halt the flow of boat people, officials said.

The Coast Guard reported that 972 Cubans were picked up in the Straits of
Florida by 5 p.m. Friday, compared with 1,921 Thursday.

Proposal to increase visas

U.S. negotiators Friday gave the Cubans a written offer that would commit the
United States to admit at least 20,000 Cubans a year through legal immigration,
far more than the 2,700 who received visas over the past 12 months, officials
said.

The Clinton administration's hope was that this offer, which meets a
longstanding demand of Castro, would induce him to halt the exodus.

Administration policy -- enshrined in the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 -- calls
for the United States to carefully reduce sanctions "in response to positive
developments in Cuba" toward achieving democracy and respect for human rights.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
David Johnson, spokesman for the U.S. delegation, arrives Friday in New York
before talks between the United States and Cuba stalled.
940903 FR 23A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REMEMBERING MANILATOWN S.F. HOTEL FOCUS OF FILIPINO FESTIVAL

BYLINE: LISA ALCALAY KLUG, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Seventeen years ago, riot police forced their way into an immigrant hotel, the
last remnant of 10 blocks of dance halls, barbershops and rooming houses once
known as Manilatown.

Officers expelled about 50 elderly Filipino and Chinese tenants and hundreds of
their supporters from the International Hotel, an icon of a neighborhood that
once attracted thousands of Filipinos. Within two years, the hotel was
demolished.

Manilatown was gone.

"It was one of the first places in Manilatown that Filipinos gathered around,"
Filipino-American artist Carlos Villa said. "It was the center of the Filipino
community from the '20s all the way to its demise in the late '70s." Today, the
story of the I-Hotel is the center of what organizers describe as the biggest
Filipino cultural festival in the country.

The celebration has been packed with film and video screenings, lectures, a play
about Filipino immigrants and an outdoor fair with storytelling, craft
workshops, musical and dance performances and puppet shows. It continues through
today.

At the heart of the festival is an exhibit titled "The Filipino American Arts
Exposition" at the Center for the Arts at Yerba Buena Gardens. The exhibit
features artwork, documentaries and slides about the involvement of Filipinos in
the U.S. military, as well as the fall of the I-Hotel.

"Three thousand people demonstrated for the hotel," announces one of the many
documentaries continuously playing during the exhibit. "Five thousand people
formed a barricade around it."

Near the center of the room is a hotel bed covered with a brilliantly colored
wire quilt, created by Filipino-American artist Reann Estrada. The wire is
shaped into squares of text, many with grammatical or spelling errors.

"I came with a chaperone because I was underage . . . five hundred Filipinos
here . . . men there I could date anyone." reads one square.

"Filipinos are a people with many different histories," said Villa, who
contributed to the exhibit and organized the festival. "This is a place where we
can all share those histories. Here is at least a start."

The exhibit also teaches visitors about the experiences of Filipino- Americans
at the hotel and in the United States, said Lenny Limjoco, a photographer who
created the exhibit with Villa.

"It would expose a lot of new people to a struggle which has been for the most
part ignored by the general public," Limjoco said.

The Bay Area is home to an estimated 300,000 Filipinos -- the largest Filipino
population outside of the Philippines, Center for the Arts spokesman David Perry
said in a statement.

During a visit to the exhibit, Alvin Albano, 25, whose parents emigrated from
the Philippines in the 1960s, said he was struck by a wall covered with
statements about the immigrant experience.

Albano pointed to a sign that read, "Parents of these women receive money and
the promise that the daughters will learn 'How to be good' -- they leave with
high hopes and find out too late -- they are shamed -- they are raped -- they
become prostitutes and never return home."

"These quotes really wake you up to what happened here," said Albano, a retail
salesman and karate instructor in San Francisco. "A lot of people don't really
know what the Filipino immigrants went through."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: AP FILE PHOTOGRAPH
Riot police guard the International Hotel during a 1977 protest over the
eviction of elderly tenants.
940904 CA 3B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COMMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: RICHARD REEVES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9F

LENGTH: 676 words


THE RAP on the Democratic candidate for governor, state treasurer Kathleen
Brown, is that she's "not substantive" -- "soft" is the word they like to use.
One of the things that makes her "soft," according to Gov. Pete Wilson, the
Republican candidate, is her opposition to new laws that would require
schoolteachers and nurses to report to the police anyone they thought looked
like an illegal immigrant.

Nice, huh? How would you like to be Henry Cisneros or Connie Chung in a state
with laws like that?

In politics, "soft" is often a euphemism for "woman," and Wilson gets added
mileage by sounding tough as he attacks Brown for her longtime opposition to the
death penalty. But on the subject of immigration, it is not Brown but Wilson who
is the soft one. He is gliding and squishing along with the demagogues and fools
proposing networks of informers and roundups of people who don't happen to look
like him. Brown, in fact, has shown astonishing political courage in telling
Californians the truth they do not want to hear about themselves and about the
history of the Golden State.

"They keep coming," says Wilson ominously in his television commercials. "Two
million illegals in California. Enough is enough."

The governor adds that he will "probably vote yes" on Proposition 187, the
so-called "Save Our State" initiative on the November ballot. It is Proposition
187 that would require public employees and health-care workers to turn in
suspicious characters with roots in Japan or Mexico, Korea or Guatemala,
anyplace where skin is darker. The new law, which would become part of the state
Constitution, would also deny education to the children of illegals and medical
care to them or their parents.

Brown has had the guts to oppose 187 -- which has close to two-thirds support in
voter polls -- and to go well beyond that and talk about a traditional
California condition that historian Kevin Starr of the University of Southern
California calls "a mean-spiritedness combined with a detachment from reality."
"There is no difference between a first-generation American and a fifth-
generation American," says Brown, whose great-grandfathers came from Ireland and
Germany. "I think this is divisive. I think it's dangerous. . . . Immigrants add
immeasurable value to California and to our economy and should be celebrated as
one of California's great assets."

"Yes," she continues, "illegal immigration is a great problem that must be
addressed in a responsible and thoughtful manner." But why do they come?
Answering her own question, she says that illegal immigrants, Mexicans in the
current case, cross borders for one overriding reason: to get jobs! So, Brown
said, the U.S. government has to address the great problem at the employer
level, creating tamperproof Social Security cards and greatly increasing the
penalties assessed on businesses that hire illegals.

But, within that context, Brown offers in her speeches a quick course in the
relationship between California and immigrants, including those who came from
the smaller United States of the 19th century to a California that was still
part of Mexico. She recites a sad and mean history of ethnic cleansing: driving
out Peruvian miners when gold was discovered; passing referendums, one getting
94 percent of the vote in 1879, to block Chinese migration; burning out and
sometimes massacring Chinese, Japanese and Filipino railroad workers; driving
away Okies during the Great Depression; deporting American citizens with Mexican
names in railroad boxcars in the early 1940s; and then putting Japanese
Americans, also U.S. citizens, into concentration camps during World War II.

That is not what Californians want to hear, even if millions of them are the
descendants of immigrants who prevailed over violent California intolerance.
They reject that history even as many of them clamor to repeat it. And a
candidate for governor willing to confront such popular ignorance is either very
brave or very foolish. Whatever she is, Kathleen Brown is not soft.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Richard Reeves is a nationally syndicated columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  September 9, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S., CUBA AGREE ON HALTING REFUGEE EXODUS MORE IMMIGRANTS TO BE ADMITTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: New Orleans


The United States and Cuba reached an agreement today aimed at halting the
exodus of refugees from the communist island, the Clinton administration
announced.

"This agreement requires the government of Cuba to take effective measures to
prevent unsafe departure of Cuban citizens," the White House said in a
statement, released in New Orleans where President Clinton was making a speech.

For its part, the United States agreed to admit at least 20,000 Cubans per year
under existing authority, the statement said. Additionally, the United States
estimates that approximately 6,000 Cubans currently on the waiting list for
visas will be admitted into the United States.

"This agreement, when carried out, will help insure that the massive flow of
dangerous and illegal migration will be replaced by a safer, legal and more
orderly process," Clinton said in the statement.

Cuba agreed that arrangements could be made through diplomatic channels for the
repatriation of "those Cubans who have recently left and wish to return."
Refugees intercepted at sea by American naval forces have been taken to the U.S.
military base at Guantanamo, Cuba. They have not been allowed to enter the
United States.

Talks in New York between Cuba and the United States had resumed today after
having been suspended on Wednesday when both sides returned to their capitals
for consultations.

Cuba wanted the United States to commit to future talks on the 32-year-old U.S.
economic embargo, which Fidel Castro's government blames for causing the
economic hardship that is driving Cubans to flee. The United States said it
would only discuss putting in place an orderly, legal process for migration.

The talks began last week after thousands of Cubans have taken to the seas in
almost any craft that would float in order to escape Cuba and in hopes of
reaching U.S. shores.

Faced with worsening economic problems, more than 32,000 Cubans have fled the
island country this year, most within the last month after Cuban authorities
stopped trying to prevent their departure.

The exodus had prompted Clinton to abandon a long-standing policy of granting
Cuban immigrants automatic asylum once they reached U.S. shores.

Their journey has been ending ironically back in Cuba. They are picked up by
U.S. Coast Guard ships and taken to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo, on Cuba's
southeast coast.

About 25,000 Cuban boat people are now camped there in a huge tent city. Others
are being sent to Panama, which has offered to house up to 10,000 Cubans for six
months.

An average of 1,000 Cubans set out each day for the United States.

The influx of Cuban rafters slowed today, however, as a storm churned up the
waters in the Florida Straits, the Coast Guard said.

Only 70 Cubans had been picked up at sea by late morning, said Petty Officer
Steve Aitkins. Coast Guard crews picked up 610 Cubans Thursday, down slightly
from average daily totals that have hovered near 1,000.

Forecasters had warned Thursday that a tropical wave was on the way. Although
the poor weather showed no signs of developing into a tropical storm, it brought
thunderstorms and four to six foot waves to the waters between Florida and Cuba.

Such conditions would be dangerous for small craft.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reuters contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 9, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INITIATIVE'S CO-CREATOR ACCUSED OF RACIST TIES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 187 words


The co-author of an anti-immigration measure on this fall's ballot has worked
for a group that gets money from a white supremacist foundation, opponents
charge. But the co-author, former top U.S. immigration chief Alan Nelson, says
the group Federation for American Immigration Reform had nothing to do with
Proposition 187, the measure dubbed "Save our State." Nelson was a part-time
consultant for FAIR, an influential lobbying group, when he helped write
Proposition 187 last year. According to campaign consultants for the group
Taxpayers Against 187, FAIR receives about 5 percent of its annual budget from
the Pioneer Fund, which the anti-187 group says was founded by a supporter of a
pre-World War II movement that advocated improving the human race through
controlled breeding. But both Nelson and FAIR Executive Director Dan Stein say
FAIR is not connected with the initiative nor with the grass- roots drive to
place it on the November ballot. If approved by voters in November, Proposition
187 would prohibit illegal immigrants from receiving welfare, schooling and all
but emergency medical services.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 10, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON AGREES TO SHARP INCREASE IN CUBAN VISAS NEW PACT: HAVANA WILL WORK TO
HALT RAFTERS' EXODUS.

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report., CHRISTOPHER
MARQUIS, Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 902 words

DATELINE: New York


The Clinton administration agreed Friday to a pact with Cuba aimed at changing a
desperate and dangerous exodus of Cuban rafters into a "safe, legal and orderly"
stream of immigrants reaching U.S. shores.

The pact, signed after a week of talks, requires the United States to issue at
least 20,000 visas to Cubans each year. Cuba in exchange will take back any of
the rafters who wish to return home and will work to cut off the massive exodus
"in every way it possibly can."

The agreement does not alter the status of the 34,000-plus Cuban rafters picked
up by U.S. ships during the current crisis and detained in "safe haven" camps at
the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay and in Panama and Texas.

Administration officials hailed the agreement as the best possible solution to a
crisis that has overwhelmed U.S. coastal patrols, forced the creation of a tent
metropolis at the Guantanamo base and sent diplomats scouring the Caribbean for
nations willing to provide havens for Cuban refugees.

But the price for Cuba's cooperation to halt the flow -- which Castro permitted
in reaction last month to hijackings and growing unrest by would-be emigrants --
is Washington's written commitment to accept a permanent fivefold increase in
Cuban immigration to the United States.

In just six years, the number of Cubans entering the United States under the new
accord would surpass the more than 125,000 who were swept into south Florida in
the Mariel boatlift during four months of 1980.

Administration officials, who consider Mariel a debacle, counter that this time
they will be able to select entrants and space out their arrivals.

Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff portrayed the accord as a victory for
President Clinton, who, he said, remained firm in the face of a challenge by
Cuban President Fidel Castro.

"This outcome was clearly a result of quick and decisive action by President
Clinton," Tarnoff said. The United States has averted a potential immigration
catastrophe, he said, while still holding out a "fair and reasonable" means for
Cubans to resettle in the United States.

Havana's commitment

With respect to the chief U.S. aim of halting the exodus, Cuba under the
agreement committed to taking "effective measures in every way it possibly can
to prevent unsafe departures, using mainly persuasive methods." In the accord,
such steps are placed in the context of safety measures to curtail perilous
voyages.

Asked whether the administration was asking Havana to use its security apparatus
to repress would-be rafters, Michael Skol, the deputy assistant secretary of
state who led the U.S. delegation at the talks, replied: "We expect and assume
that people will be treated in a humane manner."

Crackdown announced

Late Friday, Cuba announced that rafts must be removed from beaches within 72
hours after midday today. Beginning Tuesday, the government will crack down on
would-be illegal emigrants, confiscating rafts and preventing rafters from
leaving Cuban waters, according to a statement carried by Cuba's state-run news
agency, Prensa Latina.

Fresh from a day of quick consultations in Havana, former Cuban Foreign Minister
Ricardo Alarcon signed the accord. Throughout the previous week of negotiations,
Alarcon had repeatedly sought to link the talks to an easing of U.S. economic
sanctions against the island.

But Skol insisted that the administration had not deviated from its vow to
discuss only migration issues and had shunned all talk of broader political
questions.

No talks on embargo

Although both sides agreed to meet again by the last week in October to discuss
the implementation of the accord, Skol said there would be no negotiations to
lift the 32-year-old embargo.

Outlining the terms of the accord Friday, Skol said the United States would
increase the number of Cuban immigrants in three categories. First, he said, the
U.S. Interests Section in Havana would continue to issue visas to immediate
relatives of U.S. citizens and certain other Cubans eligible to come to the
United States.

He estimated that number at 500 people per year. However, other State Department
officials said they had given out about 3,000 annually in this category.

Second, Skol said, the administration will ensure that a minimum of 20,000
Cubans who do not have immediate relatives in the United States will be given
immigrant visas or paroled in each year.

Exception for waiting list

Finally, in a one-time exception to last for one year, the United States will
accept all qualified Cubans who are on a waiting list for immigrant visas.
Although there are some 19,000 people on the list, Skol estimated that only
4,000 to 6,000 of those will take up the offer because some have died, some
already have entered the United States in other ways and "some have changed
their mind."

On the subject of hijacking, the United States and Cuba both pledged to "take
effective measures in every way they possibly can to oppose and prevent the use
of violence by any persons seeking to reach, or who arrive in, the United States
from Cuba by forcible diversions of aircraft and vessels."

That clause marked a victory of sorts by the Castro government, which for years
has vainly appealed to the United States to prosecute hijackers. Until now,
Havana argues, U.S. justice officials have turned a blind eye while exiles have
glorified hijackers as heroes.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: Michael Skol: He led the U.S. delegation at the talks.
940910 FR 1A 3; color
CHART: Knight-Ridder
Cuban refugees to U.S.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Coast Guard
940910 FR 20A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 10, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MILLS GRANT TO HELP IMMIGRANT WOMEN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 35 words


Mills College will receive a $100,000 grant to help Oakland women who are
immigrants or refugees learn English and get jobs. Mills announced the award
from the Oakland Private Industry Council on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 13, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

TAP SHUTTING ON REFUGEE FLOW HUNDREDS OF CUBANS NOW SEEKING VISAS THAT U.S. HAS
AGREED TO ISSUE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: Havana


The remnants of a tropical storm helped hold down what was expected to be a
last-minute surge of Cuban rafters today, the deadline for them to leave without
interference from Fidel Castro's government.

Cuba has agreed to crack down on the illegal exodus, in return for a large
increase in the number of legal immigrants to the United States.

No rafters were picked up by U.S. authorities in the first six hours today. The
Coast Guard said its ships picked up 283 Cuban refugees Monday, down
considerably from a Sunday surge of 1,004.

The leftovers of Tropical Storm Debby undoubtedly helped. By late Monday
afternoon, 6-foot waves were reported in the Florida Straits, the main escape
route for Cuban rafters.

Rain and rough seas continued over the Straits today, dangerous conditions for
the flimsy vessels Cubans had been using to flee their Communist country. The
storm killed nine people in the eastern Caribbean before being downgraded Sunday
to a tropical wave.

Under a deal reached Friday, the Clinton administration agreed to allow at least
20,000 Cubans a year to immigrate legally. In return, Cuba promised to halt the
flight of rafters and gave them until today to remove their crafts from its
beaches.

On Monday there were only a couple rafts on the shores of Cojimar, the Havana
neighborhood that has been a main departure point for rafters fleeing hunger and
poverty.

By contrast, hundreds of people milled around U.S. government offices in Havana
on Monday, hoping for word on how to get a visa.

"We've just got to be patient and wait," said Olga Rodriguez, sheltering herself
from the sun with an umbrella. "If everything were all right in this country, we
wouldn't have to go anywhere."

In the past, only a few thousand Cubans were allowed to immigrate each year, and
most of the people who lined up outside the building seeking visas left
empty-handed. The backlog is so great that visas granted now were applied for 10
years ago.

The United States closed its embassy after Castro took power but maintains an
interest section in the seafront building that used to house the embassy.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Three Cuban refugees cling to their overturned raft and life preservers Sunday
as they wait for help.
940913 FR 7A PF 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 14, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 WILL CAST SUSPICION ON HISPANICS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 1137 words


I am responding to the Aug. 9 letter by Mike Garcia ("Deport immigrants? Let's
deport Pete Wilson"). I am tired of the mean-spirited immigrant bashing, and I
agree with Garcia's comments on the way Mexico lost the Southwest to the United
States in 1846.

I served with great honor for the United States Navy in World War II before I
became a citizen. At no time was I asked by the Navy if I was a citizen. They
needed me and thousands of others like me to fight for this country. While in
the Aleutian Islands I read that about 30,000 to 35,000 Mexicans crossed the
border to fight for this country.

Let me demonstrate what can happen to naturalized citizens and peoples of
Mexican descent who have lived in this country for generations.

In 1948, I spent three months in an Oakland veterans hospital, where I was
operated on. I was released in July and told I could not go back to work. While
I was recuperating, I went to Dunne Park in Hollister in search of a cool place
as it was a very hot day. I was joined by a friend, another Mexican-American
veteran, who was suffering from malaria obtained while serving in the South
Pacific.

We were having a little conversation when two police officers arrived and asked
us what we were doing there. We explained that we were both veterans, I
recovering from surgery and he suffering from malaria. The police told us we had
to leave the park. We had no rights: We were suspect.

Do we want this to happen again? Are we all to be suspect?

I wish that all the people who vote and believe in real justice will vote
against the Save Our State Initiative, Proposition 187.

-- Agustin S. Ruiz

Hollister
THE NATURAL FAMILY PLANNING METHOD IS PRO-WOMAN

I'd sure like to see the extraordinarily sensitive attitude that the Mercury
News displays toward Hispanics extended to Catholics.

The Sept. 7 Page One article "Hispanics' TV presence is shrinking, study finds,"
discussed the dismal percentage of Hispanics on television and the portrayal of
Hispanics as holding low-level jobs and being criminals.

On the same page was a story depicting the Vatican in a negative light because
Pope John Paul II cannot and will not agree that abortion should be made
acceptable under any circumstances. He is depicted as being uncaring about the
adults who want to kill their babies, rather than the more accurate picture of
his being concerned about innocent babies being killed in an abhorrent and
painful manner.

Furthermore, on the same day, Catholics were the subject of your editorial
cartoon because artificial birth control is unacceptable. Throughout the
coverage on the Cairo conference, I have yet to read one article in any section
of your paper on the natural family planning methods that Catholic couples have
used for more 20 years. No, instead you mention only the rhythm method, which is
ineffective and no longer taught.

The natural family planning methods -- which are techniques to avoid sex during
times of fertility -- are very pro-woman, since they don't require the woman to
take chemicals, undergo surgery or use devices that may have side effects. They
are as effective as the pill. But since this pro-woman dimension doesn't support
your thesis of the Catholic church being anti-woman, I'm sure your writers won't
mention this.

-- Colleen Trinko

Fremont
LET NIKE CRITIC DONATE PART OF BOOK ROYALTIES

Sallie Tisdale's weepy diatribe "Shoe and tell" (Sept. 5) about the
manufacturing practices of American sports shoe companies is offensive to
American business people and anyone who believes in free market economics.

Tisdale asserts that Nike's profit margin is large enough that if it were to
manufacture shoes in the United States or pay their overseas workers a "living
wage," its profit margin would be "somewhat less" and somehow we could wear our
Nikes guilt free.

Tisdale fails to tell us what she believes to be a "living wage" in Indonesia,
nor does she elaborate on what an acceptably lower profit margin at Nike would
be. We can only assume that layoffs and salary reductions among Nike's domestic
employees would be acceptable to Tisdale.

At a time when the economy of the Pacific Northwest is historically depressed,
we should be praising such local companies as Nike that profitably employ
thousands of people at home and abroad while utilizing progressive management
practices and efficient, non-union labor.

Perhaps Tisdale's future research efforts would be more appropriately focused on
why unionized domestic labor drives companies such as Nike overseas in the first
place. Moreover, Tisdale's thesis would attain far more credibility were she to
accept "somewhat less" of the royalties from her book (from which the article
was excerpted) and donate the difference to the oppressed Indonesian workers
whose cause she professes to defend.

-- Steven Glenn Daniel

Sunnyvale
PERSIAN GULF WAR WAS NOT AMERICA'S WAR

Like Lt. Cmdr. Murdock (Letters, Sept. 2), I served in our nation's fleet. I too
offered to risk my life for our nation's interests. But unlike Murdock, I hold
no rancor against those who could not or would not fight for Kuwait.

The Kuwaiti royalty was quoted as regarding our soldiers as "whores" and
"mercenaries" who were in the Mideast at their beck and call. I certainly did
not feel comfortable knowing that our people were risking their lives for such a
cause.

I would also remind critics of the Gulf War's conscientious objectors that we
did not retaliate against Iraq when that nation intentionally and without
justification killed our sailors on the USS Stark.

No, instead, our leaders saw fit to attack that nation only after it had made a
move into Kuwait that had already been condoned by our government -- using
weapons that our government helped them buy.

I would do whatever is necessary to protect my nation's safety, but let's face
the truth: The war in Kuwait was not fought to protect a democracy, could have
been avoided and certainly was not our war.

-- David A. Yomtov

San Jose
AIDING AIDS PATIENT PORTRAYED NEGATIVELY

We are responding to Lewis Simons' Sept. 4 article "It's all in the training."
His comments concerning the Japanese AIDS patient training indicated that he
believes Japanese are robots who only know how to react when have been
programmed to do so.

Simons twists a simple act of kindness by a Japanese waiter into an example of
the troubles Japanese training is causing throughout Asia. Providing assistance
to someone confined to a wheelchair should be viewed as an act of kindness.

Simons is making a quantum leap to go from a discussion of the AIDS conference
to a denunciation of the Japanese education system as being the root cause of
the problems Japanese are having with other Asian countries.

-- Kevin and Yukiko Hara

Fremont

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters To The Editor

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: GEORGE REBH
940914 ED 10B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 16, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VOTERS ALIENATED BY ANTI-PROP. 187 PROPAGANDA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 195 words


A small article ("Initiative's co-creator accused of racist ties," California
News, Sept. 9) jumped out at me as a glaring example of the insidious
propagandizing and mind control that is now so much a part of our political
process.

The article referred to Proposition 187 as an "anti-immigration measure." Anyone
who has read the proposition knows that there is no provision that would
prohibit legal immigrants from receiving public services. It will prohibit
illegal aliens from receiving taxpayer funded services. There is a vast
difference between legal immigrants and illegal aliens, which the nameless
author cunningly ignored.

Opponents of Proposition 187 know they cannot win if there is an open, honest
debate on the issues. We hope that the supporters of Proposition 187 will not
allow these special-interest keepers of the status quo to silence the debate
with their campaign of vilification.

The proponents of Proposition 187 should not waste precious time trying to
defend themselves against these smear tactics but instead present their
position, give us the facts, stick to the issues and let us decide.

-- Margaret Chiappe

Los Gatos

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 23, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER GUARDS TO BE MOVED TEMPORARY CLOSING OF CHECKPOINT WILL TRANSFER AGENTS
TO SAN DIEGO

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: San Diego


The Border Patrol, apparently switching direction, said Thursday it will
temporarily close one of two freeway checkpoints.

Current plans for Operation Gatekeeper, an immigration control initiative
outlined by U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno last weekend, include the temporary
transfer of 95 agents working at the busy Interstate 5 checkpoint at San
Clemente, according to Ann Summers, spokeswoman for the Border Patrol.

"San Clemente is going to be shut down," Summers said. "When and for how long,
we don't know yet."

And, she added late Thursday, "All of this is subject to change at any point."

During the past week, the agency has seesawed over whether the checkpoints will
be temporarily closed, as it has struggled with the logistics and politics of
what will be an unprecedented show of force.

Reno said Operation Gatekeeper, scheduled to begin Oct. 1, is intended to match
the success of a Border Patrol blockade in El Paso.

In the operation, the Border Patrol will deploy more than 200 extra agents in
San Diego, increase fingerprinting to check for repeat offenders and wanted
criminals, prosecute smugglers more aggressively and continue installing lights
and fences.

The number of agents actually guarding the border, about 100 a shift, will at
least double, Summers said.

Immigration officials also will conduct a study to determine the crackdown's
effect on activity at another checkpoint in Temecula.

The 75-agent station near Temecula will remain open because it is important in
the fight against drugs, said spokeswoman Ana Cobian of the Justice Department.
Mercury Center

INSTRUCTIONS ON PAGE 2A

(box)Wilson says California is being "invaded." N570

(box)Mexico blasts request for emergency declaration. N571

(box)Reno rebuffs Wilson's immigration request. N572

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: A.P. FILE PHOTOGRAPH
At the border town of San Ysidro, Mexicans run through traffic into the United
States.
940923 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 24, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION COULD ALTER U.S. POPULATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 126 words


Nearly 3,000 immigrants arrive in the United States each day -- a rate that
could reduce non-Hispanic whites to a bare majority of Americans by 2050, a
study suggests. "If current trends continue, Hispanics will account for one in
five Americans by 2050," according to the study by the independent Population
Reference Bureau. At the same time, non-Hispanic whites would fall from 74
percent of the population to just 52 percent, according to the study by Philip
Martin of the University of California, Davis and Elizabeth Midgley, president
of Working English. But, Martin noted at a news conference Friday, in the past
when immigration has risen to high levels the government has acted to stem the
tide and it seems likely that will happen again.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 30, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE KIND OF IMMIGRANT CALIFORNIA DOESN'T NEED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 386 words


Indeed, we do have an immigration problem. Here comes Michael Huffington from
Texas; he settles down in Ronald Reagan's neighborhood, spends a term in the
House of Representatives, leaving no trace of action or interest, and is now
trying to buy himself one of our Senate seats.

I suppose the Republican establishment will let him do it, as long as he is
willing to spend $10 million of his own money. But the fact that he could
threaten Dianne Feinstein, one of our most dedicated and effective public
servants, who in only two years has already made her mark in the Senate, is a
frightening instance of the power of demagoguery.

Ruth Kaswan

Berkeley

Students graduating

sooner or later

Mercury News editors should spend more time reading copy and less at long
lunches.

The Sept. 26 article "College students amassing huge debts" states on Page 12A
that "students are graduating much faster. It used to take an average
(University of California) student more than five years to earn a bachelor's
degree; now it's four years and one quarter."

On Page 1F of the same edition, the article "Dawn of the perennial college
student" states "Students at public universities tend to take longer to graduate
than those at private colleges . . . because of the higher cost of private
education. . . . At Cal State Long Beach, four roommates have been in college a
total of 30 years."

These kinds of articles only confuse people. It's an editors' job to make sure
that articles in the same edition spin in the same direction, except on the
editorial page.

-- Benjamin H. Beam

Sunnyvale

Foster parents dare

to make a difference

Judge Leonard Sprinkles should be praised, not criticized, for wanting to be a
foster parent to a girl he sentenced to a juvenile facility.

My father, a parole officer, became the guardian of juvenile boys who'd been in
a detention facility. When he died, we received a letter from one of those boys,
who is now a husband and father; he is also an attorney. Had it not been for my
father, that boy might have become a criminal, not a productive member of
society.

My father, like Judge Sprinkles, dared to make a difference.

This country needs more people like Judge Sprinkles and his wife. They can and
will make a difference.

-- Oranoca V. Parijo

Milpitas

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the editor

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 1, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANEL: SCREEN JOB APPLICANTS DATABASE TO PROVE CITIZENSHIP DENOUNCED AS THREAT
TO PRIVACY

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1059 words

DATELINE: Washington


Stoking a national immigration debate that has grown white-hot in California, a
federal panel Friday formally called for a computerized registry to screen all
job applicants for valid citizenship.

And while defending that plan -- slammed by civil libertarians as a threat to
privacy rights -- the panel's chief commissioner assailed California's
Proposition 187 as extremist and unlawful.

"The major problem I see with Proposition 187 is it goes too far," said Barbara
Jordan, chairwoman of the Commission on Immigration Reform, which sketched a
series of proposed reforms Friday designed to prevent illegal immigration.

Proposition 187 -- which supporters call the "Save Our State" initiative -- is
favored by California voters by roughly a 2-1 ratio, according to opinion polls.
It would bar illegal immigrants from public schools, public social services and
health care, except in emergencies.

Jordan's panel also recommended prohibiting social and health benefits except in
emergencies. But Jordan said courts had ruled that children -- even those in the
United States unlawfully -- cannot be denied access to state classrooms and
predicted Proposition 187's chief legacy would be a costly courtroom battle.

"Why is is that you would want to correct a problem through violating the law
and to deny and deprive the children (education)?" the former Texas
congresswoman asked. "I just regret that the political atmosphere and
environment in the state of California has yielded what I term an ill-
considered proposition."

The initiative's backers charged that Jordan, a renowned constitutional scholar,
was misreading the ballot measure's language, pointing out that it would not
deny education to children born to illegal immigrants in the United States.

Court battle certain

But Rick Oltman, chairman of the campaign to enact Proposition 187, acknowledged
that a court battle over access to education is a virtual certainty.

While dishing out criticism for California's high-profile attempt to stem the
tide of illegal immigration, Jordan was besieged with critics of her own Friday.

But she methodically defended the commission's recommendation for a pilot plan
in Texas and California that would require employers to certify legal immigrant
status by checking Social Security numbers.

"The most urgent immigration problem we face today is the unauthorized entry of
hundreds of thousands of illegals," Jordan told a National Press Club luncheon.

"If a person is here unlawfully, he should be entitled to no benefits," except
in emergencies or those guaranteed constitutionally, she said. "Illegal aliens
don't have the right to be here. They broke the law to get here. They never
intended to become a part of our social community and they are not entitled to
benefits."

Jordan went to lengths to distinguish a computerized check for legitimate Social
Security numbers from a national identification card, but representatives of
various Hispanic, civil liberty and legal organizations said the effect would be
perilously similar.

Foul-ups foreseen

And, they argued, a poorly maintained repository of ID numbers could deny work
to hundreds of thousands of legal citizens.

"The recommendation for a computer verification system may be appealing to those
who are looking for a magic bullet to deal with undocumented immigration," said
Audrey Alvarado, chairwoman of the National Council of La Raza. "Unfortunately,
in this case the bullet is aimed at the civil rights and civil liberties of all
Americans."

"The commission may hope that this registry will not be used to invade privacy,
to harass minorities or to facilitate unconstitutional governmental
surveillance," said Ira Glasser, executive director of the American Civil
Liberties Union. "But it is willing to experiment on over 90 million people
before it figures out how to avoid those evils."

Jordan promised to "go back to the drawing board" or "throw ourselves on the
Capitol steps" if abuses occur with the proposed computerized employment check.
Likened to ATMs

She compared the proposed new system to widely used automatic teller machines.
Instead of a personal identification number punched into a machine to get cash,
she said, prospective workers would simply recite their Social Security numbers
to clerks who would scan computer screens to ensure their validity.

The panel Friday also called for more money for Border Patrol agents, speedier
deportations of illegal immigrants, more reliable information for policy-makers
and tougher enforcement against employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Congress set up the commission under the 1990 Immigration Act and asked for
interim reports on immigration policy by Friday from both the commission and the
Clinton administration. The administration has not submitted its own report yet,
but cautiously embraced some of the panel's findings.

In a statement, Attorney General Janet Reno said the administration believes
telephone verification of a worker's eligibility is worthy of experimentation,
but an aide said the administration does not support the commission's call for
steps toward a nationwide computer registry.

Seven problem states

Illegal-immigration problems are especially acute in California, Texas, Arizona,
Florida and New Jersey. According to immigration officials, 3.4 million illegal
immigrants lived in the United States in 1992 -- 2.9 million of them in the five
most heavily affected states along with New York and Illinois.

Earlier this year, California and Florida filed suit in federal court, seeking
billions they say they are owed for costs associated with illegal immigration.
Gov. Pete Wilson, who has made tough talk on illegal immigration a campaign
trail staple, has stopped short of formally endorsing Proposition 187. He has
said he would vote for it. His Democratic challenger, state Treasurer Kathleen
Brown, has denounced the measure.

Proposition 187 foes hailed Jordan's comments Friday.

"She pointed out that it's an ill-advised policy -- a cure which is worse than
the disease," said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza. "It
violates the law and would place the state in court."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To order the report, write the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, 1825
Connecticut Ave. NW, Suite 511, Washington, D.C. 20009.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Barbara
Jordan
Calls Proposition 187 extremist
941001 FR 1A 2; color,

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

             October 5, 1994 Wednesday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

SMALL MUSEUM DEPICTS LIVES OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 547 words


Step into the Issei Memorial Building in San Jose's Japantown and step into the
heritage of Japanese-Americans in the valley.

A small museum quietly opened its doors last week on the bottom floor of the
North Fifth Street building. The Japanese American Resource Center museum,
believed to be the only one of its kind in Santa Clara County, showcases the
achievements of the first Japanese families in the area.

Inside the museum, dozens of framed black-and-white photos tell the poignant
story of the first wave of Japanese immigrants who arrived in Santa Clara County
in 1890, went to work as migrant farmhands and merchants, and established
Japantown soon after. Most of the early arrivals were bachelors, who either
returned to Japan to find a wife or wed a "picture bride" in a family-arranged
marriage.

"A lot of people have no idea what life was like here," said Dr. Tokio Ishikawa,
a retired doctor and historian who was born in Japantown 88 years ago. "That's
why they should come here to see all of this."

The museum is the brainchild of the Japanese American Resource Center, a
volunteer group of 50 educators and professionals, dedicated to preserving
culture and art. Concerned that the history of their community was being lost,
they set out five years ago to compile photos and artifacts.

So far, the museum, which subsists entirely on donations, is open only three
days a week. But eventually, the group hopes to turn the operation into a
five-day-a-week endeavor, complete with an Asian-American bookstore and a new
exhibit every six months.

The current display touches on the history of Japantown, the San Jose Buddhist
Church and the U.S. Army's all-Japanese-American unit in World War II, the 442nd
Regimental Combat Team.

As Ishikawa strolls past the old photos, he stops periodically to point out
familiar faces and buildings. In one 1920 photo, he picks out himself, his
mother and his sister in a crowd in front of the Japanese Language School on
Sixth Street, the site of the original Buddhist Temple. A 1910 photo shows the
Issei building, home to Japantown's first hospital, where Ishikawa once
practiced and lived.

He points to other photos that show the old Japanese stage theater. It was the
community's focal point until television debuted. Now it houses Aikido of San
Jose, the martial arts school.

Other photos show young men engaged in sumo wrestling, young girls dancing in
kimonos and teen-age boys in basketball uniforms with a reverse swastika, an
early symbol of Buddhism.

"I hope the museum enables people to review the past," said Ken Iwagaki,
executive director of the resource center. "I hope it allows them to learn the
struggles and successes of Japanese-Americans as they immigrated and tried to
make a life for themselves."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Japanese-American museum, 565 N. Fifth St., is open Mondays, Thursdays and
Fridays from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Admission is free, but donations are welcome. To
benefit the museum, a fund-raiser, the Japantown Winter Arts and Crafts Fair,
will be held Nov. 12 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the San Jose Buddhist Church
Betsuin, 640 N. Fifth St. For more information, call Ken Iwagaki, executive
director of the Japanese American Resource Center, at (408) 445-0109.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Dr. Tokio Ishikawa and family members are in photos displayed at San Jose's
Issei Memorial Building.
941005 LO 1B MO 2; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 6, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SO FAR, NAFTA IS PAYING OFF WELL FOR AMERICA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 343 words


While I appreciate columnist Pat Buchanan's concern for Americans, he cannot
possibly be more wrong in his analysis of the North American Free Trade
Agreement (Commentary, Sept. 19).

The programs implemented are complex and it may take many years to know their
impact on our economy. For instance, it will take 15 years for all of the tariff
reductions to take effect in NAFTA. Yet Buchanan conveniently overlooks this
fact to conclude that NAFTA is bad for the United States. His argument founders
on three key points.

1. Trade Balance -- The true measure of NAFTA's success from the U.S. standpoint
is the increase or decline of the total value of trade. Through May 1994, U.S.
exports are up by 14.9 percent over the first five months of 1993; U.S.
merchandise exports to Mexico increased from $16 billion to $19 billion. 2.
Immigration -- Buchanan's illegal immigration statistics to document Mexican
migration to the U.S. are also misleading. One must consider the reporting
process (the Immigration and Naturalization Service reports the number of
incidents and not just the individuals). So a person caught 10 times will show
up as 10 illegal entries. Buchanan's reasoning that the 40 million peasants
(Mexico's 1990 census reported a rural population of 32.6 million of all ages)
will stream to the U.S. would directly contradict his conclusion that job
opportunities are growing in Mexico. If they were growing, immigrants wouldn't
be coming.

3. Timing -- NAFTA was ratified by the U.S. Congress in November 1993 and the
treaty went into effect on January 1,1994. Buchanan has chosen to use statistics
(illegal immigration for instance) which predate the treaty, a serious error in
his argument.

Americans need policies that will guarantee our continued prosperity. However,
slipshod examination of the facts and policy options will do little to further
the debate among a concerned electorate. I hope that in the future Buchanan will
bring responsible analysis to this important discussion.

-- Bruce Edgerton

Monterey

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: CATHERINE KANNER -- LOS ANGELES TIMES
941006 ED 8B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 7, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MUSEUM OPENS TO CHRONICLE JAPANTOWN LIFE;
DISPLAY SHOWS SUCCESSES OF EARLY IMMIGRANTS TO
S.J.

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 548 words


Step into the Issei Memorial Building in San Jose's Japantown and step into the
heritage of Japanese-Americans in the valley.

A small museum quietly opened its doors last week on the bottom floor of the
North Fifth Street building. The Japanese American Resource Center museum,
believed to be the only one of its kind in Santa Clara County, showcases the
achievements of the first Japanese families in the area.

Inside the museum, dozens of framed black-and-white photos tell the poignant
story of the first wave of Japanese immigrants who arrived in Santa Clara County
in 1890, went to work as migrant farmhands and merchants, and established
Japantown soon after. Most of the early arrivals were bachelors, who either
returned to Japan to find a wife or wed a "picture bride" in a family-arranged
marriage.

"A lot of people have no idea what life was like here," said Dr. Tokio Ishikawa,
a retired doctor and historian who was born in Japantown 85 years ago. "That's
why they should come here to see all of this."

The museum is the brainchild of the Japanese American Resource Center, a
volunteer group of 50 educators and professionals, dedicated to preserving
culture and art. Concerned that the history of their community was being lost,
they set out five years ago to compile photos and artifacts.

So far, the museum, which subsists entirely on donations, is open only three
days a week. But eventually, the group hopes to turn the operation into a
five-day-a-week endeavor, complete with an Asian-American bookstore and a new
exhibit every six months.

The current display touches on the history of Japantown, the San Jose Buddhist
Church Betsuin and the U.S. Army's all-Japanese-American unit in World War II,
the 442nd Regimental Combat Team.

As Ishikawa strolls past the old photos, he stops periodically to point out
familiar faces and buildings. In one 1920 photo, he picks out himself, his
mother and his sister in a crowd in front of the Japanese Language School on
Sixth Street, the site of the original Buddhist Temple. A 1910 photo shows the
Issei building, home to Japantown's first hospital, where Ishikawa once
practiced and lived.

He points to other photos that show the old Japanese stage theater. It was the
community's focal point until television debuted. Now it houses Aikido of San
Jose, the martial arts school.

Other photos show young men engaged in sumo wrestling, young girls dancing in
kimonos and teen-age boys in basketball uniforms with a reverse swastika, an
early symbol of Buddhism.

"I hope the museum enables people to review the past," said Ken Iwagaki,
executive director of the resource center. "I hope it allows them to learn the
struggles and successes of Japanese-Americans as they immigrated and tried to
make a life for themselves."
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Japanese-American museum, 565 N. Fifth St., is open Mondays, Thursdays and
Fridays from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Admission is free, but donations are welcome. To
benefit the museum, a fund-raiser, the Japantown Winter Arts and Crafts Fair,
will be held Nov. 12 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the San Jose Buddhist Church
Betsuin, 640 N. Fifth St. For more information, call Ken Iwagaki, executive
director of the Japanese American Resource Center, at (408) 445-0109.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: A 1911 photo shows the Yamato Bathhouse, which operated from the 1890s
through the 1920s in San Jose's Japantown. A collection of photos and
memorabilia is on display at the new museum.
941007 LO 2B
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Dr. Tokio Ishikawa and family members are in photos displayed at San Jose's
Issei Memorial Building.
941007 LO 1B 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 8, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STRANGERS AT THE GATE WHAT IS THE MORAL OBLIGATION OF A NATION TO ITS CITIZENS
AND HOW DOES PROPOSITION 187 FIT IN?

BYLINE: RICHARD SCHEININ, Mercury News Religion and Ethics Writer

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 2233 words

"CAN I give you my parable of the day?" asks Dick Lamm, the former three- term,
Democratic governor of Colorado. "It's about St. Martin of Tours. He's bopping
down the highway one night in the third century when, outside the city gates, he
meets a cold and starving beggar. And in an act of utter generosity he divides
his cloak and his dinner and gives them to the beggar.

"Now that was a symbolic act, and it later helped to get him sainted. But if I
can move the discussion ahead a few centuries," says Lamm, who directs the
Center for Public Policy and Contemporary Issues at the University of Denver,
"the playwright Bertolt Brecht in 'The Good Person of Szechwan' raises another
issue: What happens if, instead of one cold and starving beggar, you are
confronted with 40? What does the ethical person do?"

That question is at the heart of the debate over immigration - and, more
specifically, forms the basis of contentious arguments over Proposition 187, the
so-called "Save Our State" initiative on next month's ballot. The SOS
initiative, as it is known to its supporters, would bar the approximately 2
million undocumented immigrants in the state - strangers who have slipped
through the gate - from receiving welfare, non-emergency health care and public
education. It sets the stage for health care providers, teachers and school
officials to help investigate and report recipients who are "reasonably
suspected" of living here illegally. And it mandates a five- year prison term,
or $25,000 fine, for any undocumented immigrant who uses false identity papers.
Needless to say, it is highly controversial - and enjoys a 2-1 lead among
registered voters, according to the latest polls. Times have changed since St.
Martin met the naked, shivering stranger. Populations have grown, society's
resources are under siege, and, supporters of the measure say, a nation's first
moral obligation is to take care of its own poor.

Gov. Pete Wilson, who says he will vote for the proposition (but has stopped
short of officially endorsing it), argues that undocumented immigrants represent
a drain of more than $3.2 billion a year on state social services. But that
estimate fails to acknowledge how much illegal immigrants contribute to the
economy through taxes and personal spending, a number that is much harder to pin
down.

Savings may be illusory

The proposition's opponents argue that its projected annual savings of hundreds
of millions of dollars for the state are inflated in the short term - and will
prove illusory over the long haul. After all, what is the cost to society of
failing to vaccinate or educate more than 300,000 children whose parents reside
here illegally? The measure, they say, is one more example of frustrated
Americans making scapegoats of immigrants for economic travails, and mirrors
discrimination against Asians in the late 19th century and against southern and
eastern Europeans in the 1920s, when Congress established the National Origins
quota system.

In 1982, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that children of undocumented immigrants
are entitled to public education. (Under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution,
they are also deemed U.S. citizens if born on American soil.) To defy the ruling
and deprive the children of schooling, and their families of primary health
care, is to treat them "as worse than criminals," says Bishop Pierre DuMaine of
the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Jose, a member of the National Conference of
Catholic Bishops Committee on Migrants and Refugees.

"These are things we don't even do to incarcerated mass murderers. We're
confusing an extralegal status with a criminal status. The punishment doesn't
fit the crime."

Mean-spirited? Xenophobic?

"It's simply insane," says Ron K. Unz, the conservative Republican who
challenged Wilson in June's gubernatorial primary. "The prisons would be forced
to release all the rapists and murderers to make way for the gardeners and
nannies," he says. A software entrepreneur from Palo Alto, Unz sees irony in the
fact that California, which gives welfare to people who don't want to work,
might soon imprison people who cross the border specifically to work.

Impact on children

"But the initiative's main intent seems to be to expel children from the public
schools who are actually legal U.S. citizens," he continues. "Imagine that
you're a 6- or 7-year-old child and you come home and tell your mother you're
going to have to leave school unless she finds some identity papers. Well, I
think my mother would have gone out and found whatever papers she needed.

"It's horrible that we would even consider sending mothers to prison for trying
to keep their children in school. Can you imagine the feelings people would have
- how Hispanics and other minorities would feel - if they turned on the
television and saw some poor woman being dragged off to prison? It would be a
moral disaster for our state."

Yolanda Vega, who directs the Santa Clara County office of Californians United
Against Prop. 187, agrees: "I was born in the United States and I will be a
target, a suspect, just because of the color of my skin and the way I speak.
Every time I'm driving, a police officer could pull me over as a suspected
illegal immigrant. If I go to the doctor, I'm a suspect. I don't want to carry
my birth certificate everywhere I go. I don't want to carry a lot of hate.

"My daughter's 9 years old," says Vega, who worked for years as a farmworker in
Gilroy with her parents and six brothers and sisters, "and I don't want her to
say, 'Mommy, I'm embarrassed to be brown.' I don't want us to go back to the
days when it was 'Negroes' and 'whites.' I don't want us to be divided."

'No ethical solution'

But many of Proposition 187's supporters say critics seize on the most extreme
scenarios to scare voters.

"The moral arguments are on our side," says Alan Nelson, former commissioner of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service and a co-drafter of Proposition 187.

"In fact, the moral and legal arguments are the same: We are a nation of laws
and it is against the law for illegal aliens to come here."

The entire discussion of immigration is fraught with emotional weight, of
course. The very term "illegal aliens," for example, recalls the term "enemy
aliens," which was used to describe Japanese-Americans imprisoned during World
War II. Policy-making is problematic when vocabulary dredges up such memories.
But "SOS" supporters say it's time to stop tiptoeing around the issue. They want
to "send a message" that the state needs to get a grip on illegal immigration.
Programs to stop the flow at the border or impose sanctions on employers haven't
had much effect on the estimated 300,000 immigrants who enter the country
illegally each year, about 125,000 of whom settle in California.

"There is no satisfactory ethical solution to the dilemma," says Lamm, who is
co-author of "The Immigration Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America."

While troubled by some of the proposition's potential effects, the ex- Colorado
governor still hopes 187 will pass. Lamm is convinced that health care "is an
economic cancer that's eating us alive. It's very easy to say, 'These are God's
creatures and you can't deny them.' But 22 percent of Californians don't have
basic health care. Thirty-one percent of women give birth without adequate
prenatal care. . . . California denies health care to an inordinate number of
its own citizens."

Lamm explains that he is "trying to set an ethical base to deny our own
citizens." For example, he says, "I don't think we should supply a heart bypass
operation to an 87-year-old man with Alzheimer's. . . . To govern is to choose.
We're not as rich as we were. We're an aging society. Our health care providers
are medically ingenious in treating people. And I've come to the conclusion that
a health care system is a magnet.

"When I look at the hard decisions that have to be made, the one that says
somebody outside the U.S. should have a claim on health services doesn't even
come close."

Yet critics of 187 point to studies and anecdotal evidence indicating that
undocumented immigrants overwhelmingly come to the state to work, not to mooch
off social services. The law already prohibits them from receiving most of those
services, including welfare, which Proposition 187 would prohibit again,
presumably to focus attention on welfare fraud among the undocumented.

Many health care providers balk at the notion that they should have to question
sick patients about their status as residents or citizens. "The role of
physicians and nurses is to treat. The role of teachers is to educate," says
Margaret McLean, director of the Applied Ethics Center at O'Connor Hospital in
San Jose. "I'm troubled, because this could undermine the trust that defines the
relationships between teachers and students, or health providers and their
patients."

When illegal immigrants seek health care, it's usually because "they're
literally too ill not to come," says Noreen Facione, a nurse practitioner who,
with McLean, will lead a symposium on the ethics of Proposition 187 next month
at Santa Clara University. "They come because it's interfering with their
ability to work or fulfill their role as spouse or mother. So they come to us in
crisis - and then we place this INS lens on them as well? . . . I respect the
idea that we need to deal with the limited resources around education and health
care, and I don't have a solution. But that doesn't fit into my framework as a
care provider."

The immigration debate in California has grown particularly heated since the
summer of 1993, when Wilson urged the elimination of "perverse incentives" that
draw undocumented immigrants to California and other states. Wilson at that time
went further than Proposition 187, saying emergency health care, along with
health care for pregnant mothers and public education, should be cut for
undocumented immigrants and their families.

Citizens registry

The governor called for a constitutional amendment denying citizenship to
children born to undocumented immigrants in the United States. And he
recommended the creation of a tamper-proof national identity card for all U.S.
residents seeking work or government benefits. Critics said that recommendation
smacked of Big Brotherism. But early this month a federal immigration panel
appeared to move in that direction by calling for a computerized registry to
screen all job applicants for valid citizenship.

Peter Brimelow, a British-born senior editor of Forbes magazine who has written
extensively on immigration issues, is amazed by the widespread American
hesitancy to distinguish between the rights of citizens and non- citizens.

"When every man is my brother, I have no brother," says Brimelow, author of the
forthcoming book "Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration
Disaster."

The nation as 'family'

"It's not inherently immoral to think that there is a community and you owe your
primary obligation to that community," Brimelow says. "Lots of people feel,
'Well, any stranger who shows up here is sort of an incipient Jesus, the
stranger at the gate.' But most people perceive morality through the medium of
the family. And when you think of it, a nation is a kind of family, and its
first moral obligation is to itself."

Brimelow opposes "the sort of promiscuous altruism . . . where you can't put any
preference on moral obligations. Doesn't a nation have the right to defend its
own borders?" he asks. "Mexico does. Its southern border is highly militarized.
. . . Look at it in a broad sense: Illegal immigration is an invasion, like any
other invasion. It threatens the nation as an entity."

He says there may be "less distressing" ways to turn back the "invaders" than by
eliminating their health care and schooling. He suggests, as a start, the
"systematic" deportation of undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes
and are now incarcerated in California.

Earlier this year, Wilson sued the federal government for $377 million - the
cost, he says, of imprisoning more than 16,000 undocumented immigrants.

All these proposals and actions have run into heavy criticism. Proposition 187
would put California "in direct contradiction to federal law" requiring that
states educate the children of undocumented immigrants, says Randall Jiminez,
professor in the Mexican-American studies department at San Jose State
University.

"Their parents are working here and paying income tax and they're not filing a
1040 form and getting a refund," he says. "They're buying goods and paying sales
tax, which goes into the schools."

The issue of morality

"You see, this is the great irony," says Loy Bilderback, professor of history at
California State University, Fresno, and co-author of "The Golden Door:
International Migration, the United States and Mexico."

"These people come here to work," he says. "One reason people come north is to
give their kids a shot at a decent education. But taking that away is not going
to stop those workers from coming. And so the effect of the law will be to make
serfs out of a category of people; to keep them in this country to pick the
cantaloupe, to stitch the shirt, to dig the ditch - and give them absolutely no
opportunity for integration and social advancement.

"Now that's immoral."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTOGRAPH
Opponents of Proposition 187 say the measure punishes farmworkers who immigrate
illegally, even though most come to work.
941008 RE 11C
PHOTO: no caption
941008 RE 1C 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 13, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RULES REVISED FOR CUBAN IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 74 words


New rules were announced Wednesday by the Clinton administration for bringing a
minimum of 20,000 Cuban immigrants to the United States annually by easing
eligibility requirements and speeding up processing of visas.

For the first time, the United States will also set up an immigration lottery in
Cuba that will provide a chance for Cubans to come to the United States who do
not qualify as refugees or are not sponsored by U.S. relatives.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 15, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FROM A SPIRITUAL STANDPOINT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 69 words

"The Church and Immigration: Taking a Stand," a workshop sponsored by Catholic
Charities of Santa Clara County and the Diocese of San Jose, includes lectures,
group discussions, and an open forum, 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Wednesday, Korean
Catholic Mission Church, 531 E. Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale. Cost: $25; $75 for
groups of three or more from the same organization. Registration: (408)
944-0362, ext. 164.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 17, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAW CENTER ASSISTS IMMIGRANTS FIGHTS FOR THE RIGHTS OF LOW-INCOME WORKERS

BYLINE: JIM DICKEY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 810 words


One Monday morning last summer a general contractor picked Pedro Sanchez from
among the men hanging out at King and Story roads hoping for a day's work.

He drove Sanchez in his pickup truck to a supermarket in the Almaden Valley,
where the immigrant from Mexico began a job laying cement. On Friday, he said he
asked for his wages, but was told, "I'll get in touch with you."

When the employer did not, Sanchez sought help from the East San Jose Community
Law Center.

The law center at 1765 Alum Rock Ave. opened last month with $191,000 in federal
grants. Its purpose is to help low-income people with legal problems such as
wages, hours and working conditions and with immigration issues.

Staffed now by five people -- including two lawyers and a law school graduate --
and 13 volunteer law students from Santa Clara University, the center began a
year ago as a volunteer operation only. Student lawyers worked then at a desk at
the Day Worker Job Center at the Tropicana Shopping Center in East San Jose.

Ruben Pizarro, 26, a third-year law student at SCU, founded the center with
Professor Jim Hammer. His sister, Sandra Pizarro, an SCU law graduate, is a
staff member. The siblings are children of Mexican farmworkers who came to
California to find work 30 years ago.

Like everyone at the law center, Pizarro is relentless in seeking out employers
who fail to pay their workers.

One such boss was tracked down in Los Angeles after three months and forced,
through legal procedures implemented by law students, to pay $1,100 to three day
laborers who put a roof on a San Jose restaurant.

The contractor Sanchez worked for, whose phone has been disconnected, owes
Sanchez $239, according to the center. Pizarro is trying to find the contractor
to serve him with notice of a hearing before the state labor commissioner on the
issue of Sanchez's wages.

Unpaid wages common

Sanchez's story of unpaid wages is a common one, said Margaret Stevenson,
supervising attorney at the law center.

"The workers will work all day and at the end of the day ask for wages. The boss
will say, 'I'll pick you up tomorrow for more work and will pay you then.' But
the employer doesn't show up the next day, of course. We hear this over and
over."

In addition to going after deadbeat bosses, the law center conducts programs to
teach workers their rights and give them tips on how not to be cheated.

"Our message is one of empowerment," said Pizarro. "We teach them to fish for
themselves, rather than giving them a fish."

Clinic on legal status

At a clinic held every Tuesday night, workers learn that no matter the legal
status of their residency they have a right to be paid according to minimum wage
laws, including overtime; a right to a safe workplace; and a right to be free of
discrimination based on race or national origins.

"Very often workers who don't speak English, or are African-American, get
inferior jobs or more hazardous jobs or are paid less than other workers,"
Stevenson said.

Workers are told to keep track of their hours on the job, as employers
frequently don't do this; and they are given a little booklet to log in their
hours, job place and information about their bosses.

They also are advised to get all the information they can on their employers --
full names, addresses, phone numbers, license numbers of vehicles.

"All of these workers are suffering financially," Pizarro said. "Many are
homeless. The ones who are not homeless live basically by renting out a quarter
or a half of a room, with three and four people in one room."

Sanchez, the cement layer, lives in a garage he rents from a family.

Psychological reward

Sometimes, even when employers are tracked down, they manage to evade paying the
wages, Pizarro said. But even then, the worker receives psychological
compensation.

"A lot of times the workers basically want to be heard by the employer," he
said. "It is most fulfilling to see the people's faces when they hear you speak
on the phone with their employers. They want them to know what they did was
wrong, even if they never get paid. But when they do get paid, they are
overwhelmed. They can't stop thanking you."

Pizarro said he and others at the center have received "many different gifts --
including sandals, food and poetry. They have so little; they look for anything
they can give at all. Sometimes their thanks is all they can give, but it's more
than enough for us."
IFYOU'RE INTERESTED

The East San Jose Community Law Center is staffed by people who are bilingual in
Spanish and English. It is seeking volunteer interpreters in Asian languages,
especially Vietnamese, Cambodian and Laotian. The non-profit center is also
asking for donations of computers and cash. The center is located at 1765 Alum
Rock Ave. For information, call (408) 254-0444.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Pedro Sanchez, left, consults with Ruben Pizarro, a student who founded the East
San Jose Community Law Center.
941017 LO 1B 2; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 17, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'SNITCH ON KIDS' INITIATIVE SANTA CLARA COUNTY SUPES SHOULD CONDEMN PROP. 187

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 229 words


NORMALLY, when local governments debate whether to support some state or federal
proposal, it's a waste of time. But not when it comes to Proposition 187, which
would deny education and health care to undocumented immigrants.

Prop 187 is a local issue. City and county governments have an enormous stake in
seeing it defeated because it would create local problems and cause real harm to
citizens. (Yes, citizens.)

The proposition would require teachers, health care workers and police officers
to turn in anybody they suspect of being undocumented. Imagine teachers having
to grill little kids, nurses having to grill pregnant women who are sick.
Imagine the tragic mistakes.

Public safety will suffer. People in immigrant neighborhoods will be afraid to
call the police for help, so thugs will find haven there. And all those kids who
are no longer allowed in school will be ripe for gang recruiting.

Some cities, including San Jose, and school districts already have come out
against 187. On Tuesday, People Acting in Community Together will ask the Santa
Clara County supervisors to do so, and Milpitas Mayor Pete McHugh will try to
persuade his city council.

Public sentiment, sad to say, is anti-immigrant and pro-187. Local officials
have an obligation to let voters know that 187 will make their communities more
hostile and less safe for everyone.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 26, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

IDENTITY CARDS FOR EVERYONE? PROP. 187: WILSON SAYS ALL MUST PROVE CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


All Californians would have to carry special identification cards to prove their
citizenship if Proposition 187 passes, Gov. Pete Wilson told the San Francisco
Chronicle.

Californians would have to display the cards to enroll their children in public
school or to receive non-emergency health care, said Wilson, who rejected the
idea that people born in this country might see that as an imposition.

The requirement is the same as "your picture is on your driver's license, and
your thumb print is on your driver's license," Wilson said.

"If you are a legal resident you have absolutely nothing to fear," he said. "It
has nothing whatsoever to do with eye or skin color. You are reasonably suspect
if you cannot provide documentation that you are in the country legally."

Proposition 187 would deny public education, social services and all but
emergency health care to undocumented immigrants.

Wilson has made support for the proposal a plank in his re-election platform. He
talked to the Chronicle on Sunday and Tuesday for today's story.

Wilson's scenario is similar to that of a federal commission headed by former
Texas Rep. Barbara Jordan, which recommended a national computer registry to
keep illegal residents from getting U.S. jobs.

Wilson said the 8-year-old Immigration Reform and Control Act already requires
some kind of valid identification for employment.

"The problem is that those are easily counterfeited," Wilson said. "You can
create a tamper-proof card. The only difference between existing law and what
we're talking about now is the technology of the card."

Wilson pointed to himself to illustrate what he says will occur if Proposition
187 passes:

"If you say to me, 'Pedro, you cannot work here; you are in the country
illegally; I cannot hire you because if I do, they're going to penalize my butt
good' . . . If I discover I cannot work and my child cannot go to school, you
know what I'm going to do? Go home. There will be self-deportation."

He emphasized that Proposition 187 contains an exception for emergency health
care.

"No one is ever going to be denied emergency care, because physicians will
provide it under the Hippocratic oath," he said.

Immunization treatments would not be considered emergency care, but local health
workers would have to make their own decisions about whether to provide them, he
said.

"If in their judgment there is any threat of communicable disease," he said,
then it would be up to local health officials to act.

One medical study has suggested that tuberculosis would increase in the state if
Proposition 187 passes, given illegal immigrants' fear of deportation if they
seek treatment.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 28, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 240 words


Some illegal immigrants suspected of crimes in Florida may now be deported even
before they go to trial under a pilot program announced by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the state. Under the three-month program, immigrants
accused of misdemeanors and non-violent felonies for which they would have
served little or no prison time could avoid trial by agreeing to be deported.

* It has been seven years since Joel Steinberg last struck Hedda Nussbaum, but
when a videotape of the countless injuries she suffered at his hands was played
in a New York City courtroom Thursday, Nussbaum collapsed and had to be helped
out of court. Testifying for the second day in her suit to collect $3.6 million
from Steinberg for eight years of beatings she said she endured, Nussbaum
recalled the night in 1987 when Steinberg beat to death their illegally adopted
daughter, Lisa, 6. He is serving a manslaughter sentence for the killing.

* A Boston judge has ordered retired Indonesian army Gen. Sintong Panjaitan to
pay $14 million to Helen Todd, mother of Kamal Bamadhaj, who was 20 years old
when killed by Indonesian soldiers during a 1991 massacre in East Timor.
Panjaitan moved to Boston in 1992, but has since returned to Indonesia. The
judgment is one of the largest ever under the Torture Victim Protection Act,
which allows lawsuits to be filed over human rights violations committed
anywhere in the world.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Nussbaum
941028 GN 2C 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 29, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN MEXICO, PROP. 187 PROTESTS OPPOSITION TO INITIATIVE UNITES MEXICANS ACROSS
SOCIAL CLASSES SILICON VALLEY FIRMS WARNED OF FALLOUT FROM 'BIASED' LAW

BYLINE: ESTHER SCHRADER, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 836 words

DATELINE: Mexico City


When San Jose political and business leaders came here this month peddling
Silicon Valley trade, they discovered that California's controversial "Save Our
State" ballot initiative has more than human rights advocates angry.

"Every business organization we met wanted to express their concern; they were
really upset," said Joe Hedges, international program officer for the city of
San Jose. "They told us the U.S. does not have a monopoly on doing business with
Mexico, and if our laws are perceived to be discriminatory, they may choose to
do business elsewhere."

In this country where rights activists and reformers usually have little in
common with businessmen and government officials, there is stunning unanimity
these days on one thing: Proposition 187, which would deny most social services
to California's growing number of illegal immigrants, would deal a heavy blow to
Mexican-U.S. relations.

"The outcry is tremendous against 187. I'm surprised at how strong it has
become," said Sergio Aguayo, president of the Mexican Academy of Human Rights, a
private advocacy group. "What is really surprising is the convergence of
official groups and non-government sectors. This has become a focal point for
the frustrations of Mexican society."

Last week Mexico's secretary of foreign relations, Manuel Tello, called the
proposal "anti-immigrant" and "xenophobic." His director of consular affairs,
Eduardo Ibarrola, referred to the measure -- championed by Gov. Pete Wilson --
as "the racist proposal of a demagogue."

Seven Mexican business associations have opposed it. Politicians from many
parties have denounced it. Schoolteachers have handed out pamphlets against it.
A conservative Mexico City daily newspaper last week ran a political cartoon of
Wilson dressed in Ku Klux Klan garb. The caption read, "Wilson for Fuhrer." And
Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari said Thursday that the Mexican
government would do what is necessary to support the rights of Mexican migrant
workers in California.

"They are our countrymen, they are human beings, they deserve respect and, in
our deeds, we will continue defending them," Salinas said in the border city of
Juarez.

Unified in protest

Beyond the official pronouncements and editorial outrage, popular protests have
united groups that rarely agree with Mexican politicians on anything.

Residents in eight Mexican border cities -- from Tijuana to Nogales to Matamoros
-- have organized a boycott of U.S. businesses Sunday and Monday to protest
Proposition 187. During a one-day boycott Oct. 12, demonstrators blocked the
Mexican side of the border crossing at San Ysidro, urging Mexicans not to spend
their money in the Golden State.

In Oaxaca, several hundred Mixtec Indians, who often seek work illegally in the
United States, burned an American flag Sunday in front of the Mexican state
capital.

On Mexican radio, talk show hosts calm hysterical mothers wondering what will
happen to their sons and daughters in "El Norte" if the ballot measure becomes
law and unleashes the sort of discrimination that Mexicans fear.

March at embassy

And in front of the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City on Wednesday about 2,000 people
marched against the proposal. Some shouted, "Damned gringos!" and "Pete Wilson
is a neo-Nazi racist!" Many carried banners exhorting Californians to defeat the
proposition, which Wilson has made an important part of his re-election
campaign. His opponent on Nov. 8, Kathleen Brown, opposes 187.

Inside the embassy compound, U.S. officials were frustrated and perplexed.

"I wanted to go out there and say, 'Look, you guys, the address for the
California state office is that-a-way,' " said U.S. Embassy spokesman Bill Barr,
who saw the protest from his office window. "This is not the federal
government's fault."

Proposition 187 is aimed at cutting off public schooling and all but emergency
health care to illegal immigrants, who make up much of California's low-wage
sector. It also would require school and health officials to report to
immigration authorities anyone they suspect of being in the country illegally.
In Mexico City's cantinas and plazas, where animated discussion of the latest
conspiracy theory or outrage is the rule, talk has turned to what people call
the "anti-immigrant law."

Fear for relatives

"As human beings it is a cruelty to do this with people," said Jasmin Sepeda,
20, eating corn on the cob from a street vendor. Sepeda said her husband and her
mother-in-law live in San Diego legally, and she is worried about a backlash
against them.

"The proposition, I think, is racist, definitely, in the sense that it wants to
distinguish between races and between people," said Oscar Menendez, a film
director drinking coffee black in a nearby cafe.

"Californians have every right to do what they want," he said, "but, lamentably,
this demonstrates the racist attitude, the xenophobic attitude, that many
Californians have regarding immigrants. It pains all Mexicans."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Super Barrio tries to deliver a letter Friday for President Clinton at the U.S.
Embassy in Mexico City in protest against Proposition 187.
941029 FR 1A 1; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 29, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOILING POINT AS CALIFORNIANS PREPARE TO CAST VOTES FOR ANGER AND CYNICISM, IS
THERE ROOM FOR COMPASSION?

BYLINE: RICHARD SCHEININ, Mercury News Religion & Ethics Writer

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 2201 words


To hell with immigrants. To hell with criminals.

To hell with the government making decisions about how we should run our lives.
First they wanted to make us wear motorcycle helmets. Now they want to tell us
where we can smoke? And they want to manage our health plans, too? The
government's going to manage that?

Get real.

Besides, who needs the government? Let's disband it.

(hbox)

Oh, boy. People are angry.

You've watched all the newscasts and read all the analyses about the sour mood
of voters. It seems that the optimistic, can-do American has become a cynic with
no hope or faith in the future. The economy's in recovery? Well, the bubble's
bound to burst. It's time to put our own house in order and stop worrying about
the other guy.

That seems to be the attitude out there.

Hard attitudes for hard times. Just look at the propositions on the California
ballot.

"Three strikes, you're out" (Proposition 184): no more chances for repeat felony
offenders. Save our State (Proposition 187): time to toss 300,000 children out
of the public schools, because their parents are undocumented immigrants.

It's a long way from the Great Society. It's a long way from a thousand points
of light.

"It's the end of compassion, a perfect way to talk about the '90s," says
Nicolaus Mills, an editor of Dissent magazine and professor of American Studies
at Sarah Lawrence College in New York. "The anti-immigrant fervor is only one
sign of a culture of resignation where people think things not only aren't going
to get better, but are bound to get worse.

"There's a real lashing out," Mills says. "You see it in the war on the
homeless, as well as in the corporate world where there's an ethic of disloyalty
as companies routinely downsize to the point that

no one over 50 feels secure in their lives. It applies in the civil rights
movement where people have given up on a universalist ethic and moved toward
identity politics. And you see it clearly in foreign policy, where we have now
reached the point where there is something called an 'acceptable holocaust.' You
look at television and you see Bosnia and no one can say 'we didn't know' this
time."

The end of compassion?

Is it possible that this year's elections -- in California and elsewhere --
amount to one giant referendum on the moral responsibilities of government? And
that much of the citizenry is rejecting or redefining those responsibilities? Is
that why Michael Huffington, as he indicts Dianne Feinstein for using
"political" methods to try to solve the state's ills, has the incumbent running
scared in his U.S. senatorial bid? Have millions of people simply reached the
conclusion that the New Deal, the Great Society and social entitlement programs,
in general, have ultimately reaped little through the decades but crime and
budget deficits for a rudderless nation?

There's a palpable feeling that the nation is at a crossroads.

"This election is about the moral responsibility of the citizens -- that's
what's being challenged," insists Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, editor of
Commonweal, the Roman Catholic magazine. "Because people are being offered the
notion that we can be a country without government, which I find morally
irresponsible."

But the notion of a big, compassionate state that solves everyone's problems is
on the block. People are racheting down their expectations and turning inward.
And their cynicism about political institutions disturbs social observers of
most political stripes.

Still, do cynics necessarily make immoral choices?

"I don't buy it," says Peter Skerry, author of "Mexican Americans: The
Ambivalent Minority" and a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center in
Washington, D.C.

National choices

Skerry argues that the electorate is forcing a realistic political discourse on
the limitations of government. "Making choices is what public policymaking is
all about," he says. "I don't think "three strikes, you're out" is immoral. I
don't think depriving immigrants of certain services is immoral. It's not smart.
But 'immoral' is pretty heavy-duty. Any nation has an obligation to define who's
a member and who isn't, and it then has certain responsibilities to its members.
After that, we can agree to extend those responsibilities to people at the
margins, and illegal immigrants are arguably at the margins. . . .

"But to talk meaningfully about moral responsibility, you have to first define
the community," Skerry says. "You have to draw some sort of boundaries around
it. Otherwise everyone is responsible for everyone in the world and the concept
of 'responsibility' is reduced to a nullity. I think it's fair to ask, 'Do we
owe the most newly arrived immigrants who stream across our borders the same
benefits that we owe the neediest people in America who have been here for
generations?' "

Amitai Etzioni agrees that the controversial measures on the California ballot
pose legitimate moral choices. Etzioni, a sociologist at George Washington
University in Washington, D.C., fathered the communitarian movement that so
influenced Bill Clinton during the 1992 presidential campaign. Etzioni argued
that a new moral climate can be established and a fragmented America repaired
only through a rejection of "radical individualism" and the implementation of
policies that promote public safety and well-being, even if individual rights
are sometimes sacrificed.

Laws should reflect a nation's values, says Etzioni, author of "The Spirit of
Community." As Californians debate the Save Our State initiative, he continues,
they should consider more than the matter of open borders, the effect on the
state budget and the availability of funds to operate programs for citizens.
"Behind that is another moral question: How do we maintain American culture, if
such a thing can be said to exist? Do we want to maintain it?"

The irony of the ballot initiatives, he and others point out, is that a cynical,
government-bashing electorate may soon implement measures that demand more,
big-government solutions to entrenched social problems.

Big institutions

Save Our State would require California to devise a complex system to identify,
fine or imprison illegal immigrants. "Three strikes" could flood prisons with
new inmates, requiring the construction of new jails and costing the state
billions of dollars. Likewise, Proposition 186, which calls for a "single-payer"
health care system, would increase the role of government by sweeping private
health insurers out of the state and establishing a state- run insurance system
similar to Canada's system. That measure is less popular than the others. But
the presence of all three on the ballot, Etzioni remarks, demonstrates a
surprising amount of "trust" in the continued ability of government to do the
impossible.

But to what ethical ends will Big Government dedicate itself in the '90s? The
question facing today's citizenry is "whether government should be
compassionate, compensatory or punishing, and in what proportions," says Barton
J. Bernstein, professor of U.S. history at Stanford.

Where did the notion of the big, compassionate government come from to begin
with?

Earlier in U.S. history, immigration was largely unrestricted. Crime was
perceived as a local problem. And no one would have conceived of health care as
a federal or state responsibility.

But a perpetual argument that pits individual accountability against social
responsibility has run throughout the course of American politics. In this
century, "upsurges of compassionate government" -- exemplified by massive social
welfare programs -- have occurred whenever the argument veered in favor of
social responsibility, Bernstein argues. The best-known upsurges, of course,
occurred during the New Deal and Great Society administrations of presidents
Franklin Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson.

Inevitably, as public works and anti-poverty programs missed their mark, the
political pendulum veered toward demands for strict accountability in every
individual's behavior as the foundation of a functioning, moral society. In
Bernstein's analysis of the historical process, such demands tend to rule out
the disadvantages of poverty, class and race as causes of social problems. The
result is that government cuts back social welfare programs -- as is occurring
today -- and becomes "non-compassionate."

That's an example of "a very liberal, old-style formulation of the issues," says
David Blankenhorn, president of the Institute for American Values in New York
City.

"I don't see this one-to-one correlation: Big government equals compassion;
small government equals no compassion. Still, I have to say that I'm taken aback
by how angry and querulous our whole political discourse has become. There's a
lot of hostility, mistrust and anger between us. Blame the welfare mothers.
Blame the immigrants. Blame Hollywood. People are generally frustrated about the
state of the culture, that the country is on the wrong track in a lot of ways,
and that there is not very much they can do about it.

"Americans, who tend to be a very optimistic people, find themselves faced with
family fragmentation, youth violence, all these pathologies -- this kind of
cultural regression. We can't really seem to get a grip on what to do about it.
And when people see no solution in sight, they do kind of run low on
compassion."

The cynicism is worrisome to conservatives and liberals alike.

Seven hundred years ago, the Christian theologian Thomas Aquinas warned that
"despair is the most dangerous of all sins," because when despair takes over in
a society, "all kinds of wickedness follow." Today's lack of hope can
potentially lead to "all kinds of amoral things: harsh measures and picking up
with demagogues," warns John W. Gardner, the Stanford Business School professor
of public service who was an architect of Johnson's Great Society and War on
Poverty programs 30 years ago.

Gardner laments that there is "an inchoate anger and rejection that hardly has
any substance to it" in the country today. Feeling hopelessly separated from
centers of decision making, millions of Americans suffer from the "impotence
that grows like a life-threatening tumor in any huge and complex society. It
tells you in a thousand ways that you aren't important and what you do won't
make a difference."

How to fight this cancer? Gardner poses the development of a "universal ethic of
volunteer, community service" to uplift citizens and convince them that block by
block, neighborhood by neighborhood, they have a hands-on stake in the future.
This sort of volunteerism is "bubbling up" around the country, he says. "It's
grass roots, learning from the mistakes of the '60s. We had to do it wrong a few
times before we did it right, and it is an immensely encouraging thing, but who
knows about it?"

The liberal Christian ethicist Robert McAfee Brown wonders "how we lost this
ethos that the task of government is to see that nobody in the community goes
hungry. There's this terrific stuff in the Book of Leviticus about taking in the
stranger and remembering that you were once out in the desert, and now there are
other people out there who need our help," says Brown, who lives in Palo Alto.
"If this election turns out as badly as some of us fear, it will be saying
something about how the Democrats have squandered their whole legacy. And it
will be a powerful statement about having to make new beginnings. Because we've
been drawing on our moral capital for a long time, and we've not been doing that
very effectively. I'm afraid we could have a landslide of sheer individualism
that wipes out any kind of communal support for disadvantaged people."

Points to racism

Brown connects anger against immigrants to the "scabrous racism" that has arisen
in the past month, he says, amid discussions of whether there is a relationship
between human intelligence and race. Conservative political analyst Charles
Murray and the late Harvard psychologist Richard J. Herrnstein set off the
discussion with their recently published book, "The Bell Curve: Intelligence and
Class Structure in American Life." It argues that blacks as a group have lower
IQs than whites and has been the subject of intensive media scrutiny.

The discussion, to Brown, is yet another piece in the depressing political
landscape of America.

There's "irony" in all of this, notes Blankenhorn: "American democratic values
are on the march around the world. There's no more apartheid in South Africa.
Peace is breaking out in the Middle East and Northern Ireland. You could paint a
pretty rosy picture out there about how American values are everywhere
triumphant. And yet, when we look at our own society, there's a sense of
frustration, of loss, of being on the wrong track, of being internally divided.
And with all that -- and especially with the absence of a looming outside threat
-- this leads to anger. I don't care if this benefits one political party or the
other over the next few weeks. I'm just a little taken aback. There's very
little civility in our public discourse. It's shocking. That's what I keep
thinking: It's just shocking."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELIGION & ETHICS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 30, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE ANGRY SEARCH FOR SCAPEGOATS

BYLINE: ROBERT SCHEER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 742 words


WHY ARE we so mean?

Two years ago, this close to the election, a majority of voters, goaded by
California Gov. Pete Wilson, were determined to pass a proposition drastically
cutting welfare payments. At the last moment, the voters came to their senses.
Realizing that 70 percent of welfare recipients are children and that making
them go hungry does not represent serious welfare reform, they voted the
governor's proposition down.

This time a majority, again fired up by a governor who apparently knows no
limits of decency, tell pollsters that they intend to vote for Proposition 187,
which purports to curtail illegal immigration but which does nothing of the
sort. Maybe the tide will turn by Election Day as people come to recognize that
immigration reform means closing the border and sanctioning employers rather
than forcing children out of the schools and onto the streets.

But why must we go through this demeaning exercise in which a basically decent
and generous people surrender to vituperation?

We know why the governor takes these stands; he is an intrinsically unpopular
fellow bereft of warmth or conviction who connects with the voters only with
appeals to base fear.

But why do so many voters buy it?

The answer, sadly enough, can be found in a trip to the Holocaust Museum in
Washington. When Germany was prosperous, its society was highly civilized in the
sense of being open to those who were different. But when the economy crumbled,
civility evaporated, and the hunt was on for scapegoats.

We are far from being in a comparable situation. But amid troubling signs of
economic distress, too many Americans' expectations have failed, and Americans
are raised to believe that constant material improvement is a birthright. And
this discontent fuels the bonfires of the demagogues.

Consider the stark findings of the recent census report on income and poverty:
Median household income in the United States, in real dollars, has declined by
more than 7 percent since 1989. For households in the central cities, real
income is down an astounding 12 percent. What this documents is a reversal of
the American dream that has been under way since the end of the 1960s. It is a
national, not a regional phenomenon, meaning it has nothing to do with illegal
immigration, which seriously affects only a few states.

At the same time, there has been a sharp increase, again nationally, in class
differences. The latest census figures show that almost 40 million Americans
live below the official government poverty level, almost 7 million more than
five years ago. In California, one in five live in poverty.

We are increasingly a society of the working poor scratching an existence out of
low-wage jobs. No wonder that many citizens who qualify for welfare reject such
jobs, leaving them for the undocumented who, despite the lies of the pro-187
people, are not eligible for the dole.

Our economic malaise has nothing to do with immigration and everything to do
with the end of U.S. dominance in the world market. The stark result: the loss
of high-paying manufacturing jobs and the end of trade unions as major players
in setting wage rates. We are no longer a society where an ordinary, working
person can live proud.

Gone are the clear tracks to a better life for one's children. Now, colleges are
expensive and offer no guarantee of a high-paying job. Gone also is the security
that hard work guarantees a job until retirement. For many people, this is a
frightening turn of events and they thrash about for explanation of how this
could have happened. Who is to blame?

Historically, in this country as elsewhere, the easiest target is the stranger.
Strange by color, religion, language, country of origin -- the "other." Two
years ago, the target of opportunity was the welfare mother. Today, it's the
illegal immigrant.

The governor is thrilled that this hunt for scapegoats resonates: that Latinos
who are legal might turn on those who are not, or that blacks could be induced
to lash out at browns. He acts as if the ugly notion of divide and conquer is
his own salvation.

As editorial writers for the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times and
virtually every paper in California have written, Pete Wilson's championing of
Proposition 187 represents a profound moral failure. Whatever his and the
proposition's fortunes in this election, Wilson's career now bears, indelibly,
the mark of shame.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Robert Scheer is a freelance journalist. He wrote this article for the Los
Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: Illustration by Kent Barton
941030 ED 7C

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 31, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EFFORT TO STOP IMMIGRATION IS NOTHING NEW

BYLINE: JOANNE GRANT, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 477 words


The current attempt to stop the flow of illegal immigrants, mostly Hispanics, is
nothing new for California.

More than a century ago, there were determined attempts to get rid of other
immigrants. Only the ethnicity has changed.

California voters face a decision Nov. 8 on whether to deny public education,
most health care and other public benefits to children and adults who are here
illegally, most of them Hispanics.

In 1879, Californians were asked to vote on Chinese immigration.

In an unusual method apparently designed to ensure a no vote, opponents could
simply check "against" Chinese immigration on their ballots, according to Connie
Young Yu in her book, "Chinatown San Jose, USA."

Others had to write "for" on the ballot. Only 883 voters did. The other 154,638
voted against it.

The critical issue then was jobs. Issues such as education weren't a problem
because few Chinese families were here and those who had kids sent them to work
instead of school.

Many prominent people in San Jose were opposed to Chinese immigration; others
welcomed them -- sort of. It was easy to see why.

One "supporter" explained that, during the peak season, he "hired about 65
Chinamen and about 30 white men" to gather fruit and pick hops.

"About three-fourths of the whole amount paid for wages goes to the white man
and one-fourth to the Chinese," the employer told the Chinese Commission at San
Francisco late in 1876.

"If we had to rely on white labor, we would be compelled to close and abandon
business," he said. "There is about $3,000,000 of capital invested in mills on
this coast, and all the mills would have to close if Chinese labor was
excluded."

Other testimony at the hearing was similar -- it all boiled down to the fact
that Chinese worked harder for less money.

The San Jose Mercury, the local paper with the more moderate approach to the
issue, printed letters and editorials nominally against exclusion.

One letter outlined reasons to fight a ban on Chinese: "He is too economical; he
is too industrious; he never begs; he would rather work; he is the most orderly
and methodical of all workers. . . . He is the worker we have in California
today; drive him from our shores (if that is possible) and you put back the
industry of the state 20 years."

While the arguments raged, anti-Chinese clubs formed. A state constitutional
convention in 1879 adopted an anti-Chinese article. The following year, the
state Legislature passed a law making it a misdemeanor to hire a Chinese.

The president of a Northern California quicksilver mine defied the law and was
arrested. His attorneys argued that the state law and constitutional provisions
violated federal law and the U.S. Constitution. The mine boss won.

Ultimately, however, opposition was strong enough to get Congress to ban further
Chinese immigration.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OUT OF THE PAST
Out of the Past will move to Tuesdays, beginning with the next column.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 4, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SACKING JACK KEMP

BYLINE: TOM TEEPEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 316 words


YOU CAN kiss Jack Kemp goodbye. At root as conservative as ever, he nonetheless
may have offended conservative orthodoxy once too often to lay claim to the
Republican presidential nomination.

In his latest doctrinal gaffe, Kemp opposed California's Proposition 187.

The issue is thinly disguised immigrant-bashing, but GOP Gov. Pete Wilson's
support of it is carrying him to a likely re-election he probably couldn't win
without its lift. It has become a favorite of Republicans elsewhere, too.

Proposition 187 would place all immigrants, especially easily tagged Hispanics
and Asians, under a harrying pall of endless suspicion. It would chase kids out
of schools and into the streets. Forcing medical neglect, it could create a
breeding culture of contagion, treatable only by deportation.

All of this Kemp has written, along with another Republican, former Education
Secretary William Bennett. They suggest firm but more direct efforts against
illegal immigration.

They point out, too, that Republicans, by playing to nativism, risk again
placing themselves on the wrong side of a population of rising political
importance, as they have with the party's indifference to so many racial justice
issues.

All of this is sound advice, but it is unwelcome within much of the Republican
Party.

Perhaps Bennett eventually will be forgiven. He's a first offender. But for
Kemp, this abandonment of GOP values comes atop his continuing and annoying
refusal to reduce his concerns about racial inequity and poverty.

In the throwback quarters of the GOP that increasingly rule its candidate
selection, it is expected that one will make the appropriate, caring noises over
such matters, but only if asked. And one is not supposed to mean it.

Kemp means it. But his "bleeding-heart conservatism" is no longer valued as a
party shield against charges of racism and heartlessness.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Tom Teepen is national correspondent of Cox Newspapers.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: RON CODDINGTON
941104 ED 7B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  November 6, 1994 Sunday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

MTN. VIEW MARCH AGAINST PROP. 187;
CONFRONTATION AVOIDED OVER IMMIGRATION ISSUE

BYLINE: SUE HUTCHISON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 449 words


Two groups on opposite sides of the immigration issue avoided confrontation in
downtown Mountain View on Saturday, allaying concerns of police who had urged
them not to stage simultaneous demonstrations.

Scores of opponents to Proposition 187, the ballot measure that would deny
health care and education to illegal immigrants, marched peacefully down Castro
Street to a rally in Rengstorff park. Supporters of the proposition did not
launch a counter-demonstration at City Hall plaza, but several showed up to
videotape the anti-187 march, sponsored by Latinos Unidos de Mountain View.

Latinos Unidos has lobbied hard to accommodate the interests of day laborers
while also advocating on behalf of legal immigrants. But, earlier this year,
Latinos Unidos clashed with Proposition 187 supporters as the latter group
collected signatures on El Camino Real to qualify the measure for Tuesday's
ballot.

"All we wanted to do was reserve the plaza so (Latinos Unidos) couldn't have
their rally there. We'd never planned to have a bunch of our people waving signs
and shouting," said Kenneth Record, co-chairman of the Northern California Yes
on 187, Save Our State campaign. Record also is a founder of the Save Mountain
View Coalition, a group whose goal, he said, is to prevent the city from
becoming a "Third World outpost" for cheap labor.

"We didn't want them to demonstrate there, on property we all pay taxes for,
because of what might happen," Record said. "In the past, some radical groups
like MEChA have shown up for these things and trashed the place."

Reynaldo Herrera, a leader of Latinos Unidos, was pleased by the number of
marchers who turned out for the rally, especially on a cold, rainy morning.

"I think we've shown we can be peaceful and behave ourselves in a non- violent
demonstration," Herrera said. "We are only here to say that 187 promotes racism
and punishes children without solving the immigration problem."

Record acknowledged that his group was not concerned about the behavior of
Latinos Unidos marchers who showed up Saturday morning. However, on Friday he
issued a statement to the Mercury News claiming Herrera and his group employ
"Banana Republic practices."

Record said his group frequently monitors the Latinos Unidos external
communications and message phone to stay abreast of its activities and document
demonstrations by videotape in case of violence. He claimed Latinos Unidos
members did not properly apply for the permit they received from police to
demonstrate at City Hall.

To deflect a possible confrontation, Herrera compromised and led his marchers on
the far side of Castro Street, across a concrete median from City Hall.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
Jesus Jimenez, 9, and his mother, Catalina, join the protest against Proposition
187 march through Mountain View on Saturday.
941106 LO 1B P 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

            November 9, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL STREET EDITION

IMMIGRATION, CRIME KEYS TO BROWN'S DEFEAT

BYLINE: SCOTT THURM, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 1EL

LENGTH: 774 words


Completing a stunning political comeback, Gov. Pete Wilson on Tuesday rode
middle-class fears about crime and illegal immigration to a new, four-year lease
on the governor's office.

Wilson, who 18 months ago ranked as the most unpopular governor in modern
California history, obliterated Democratic state Treasurer Kathleen Brown. With
more than half the votes counted, Wilson led Brown by a 3-2 margin.

Propelled by a strong tailwind that helped Republicans nationwide, Wilson helped
the GOP capture at least three other statewide offices. Proposition 187 - the
anti-illegal-immigration ballot measure that Wilson made the centerpiece of his
campaign - also passed easily.

The verdict seemed as much a repudiation of Brown as vindication for Wilson. In
the most recent Field Poll, completed just 10 days ago, only 29 percent of
Californians thought the governor was doing a good job.

Still, Tuesday's victory is certain to revive speculation that Wilson will seek
the 1996 Republican presidential nomination. Wilson repeatedly has denied any
interest in national office, but as governor of the nation's largest state, with
a presidential primary in March 1996, he is certain to be a powerful force
within the GOP.

"President Wilson," some backers shouted as he addressed supporters at the
Doubletree Hotel in Los Angeles.

"What happened today is people went to the polls and voted to continue the
progress we made," the former assemblyman, San Diego mayor and U.S. senator told
the joyous crowd. He called the results "a victory for working Californians,
those who work hard, play by the rules and pay their taxes, who have raised
their children to obey the law, to respect themselves and others."

Focused campaign

Wilson clearly reaped the rewards of a campaign built around crime and illegal
immigration. Those were the top issues cited by voters in an Associated Press
exit poll, and more than two-thirds of voters who called those issues important
supported Wilson. Three-fourths of voters who backed Proposition 187 also voted
for Wilson, the exit poll found.

The reversal of fortunes for the gubernatorial candidates was astonishing. In
May 1993, pollsters gave Brown a 23-point lead in a hypothetical matchup with
Wilson; Tuesday night, the 61-year-old governor won by almost an equal margin.
For Brown, the daughter and sister of former California governors, it was a
bitter defeat. But she offered a gracious concession speech shortly after 10
p.m.

"I hope and pray that having won the battle of tactics, (Wilson) will now use
his victory to help rebuild California," Brown told supporters at the Biltmore
Hotel in Los Angeles. "I pledge to do what I can to help him chart California
through this difficult passage in our history."

Long, costly contest

Although both faced primary challenges, Wilson and Brown essentially ran against
each other for two years, after Wilson's record-low approval ratings in 1992
lured Brown into the race.

Together, they raised and spent about $50 million, setting a record for a state
political campaign. At times this fall, they spent $300,000 a day, mostly on
television commercials attacking one another.

Wilson hammered Brown for opposing the death penalty - even though Brown pledged
to enforce death sentences if elected - and for supporting continued government
services to illegal immigrants. Repeatedly, he attached Brown to her brother
Jerry, a now-unpopular former governor.

Those attacks mirrored Wilson's highly focused campaign, in which he dwelled
almost exclusively on crime and illegal immigration. Seizing on extraordinary
fears of crime, he exhorted legislators - who needed no prodding - to pass more
than a dozen measures to lengthen criminal sentences, including "three strikes,
you're out." Then, he signed each one with great fanfare, frequently using the
footage in television commercials.

Emotional ads

Wilson also adopted Proposition 187 - the ballot measure that would deny public
services to illegal immigrants - as part of a campaign that included repeated
trips to the border and lawsuits against the federal government. In several
emotional commercials, Wilson used footage of Mexicans running across the border
at San Ysidro while a narrator said, "They keep coming."

Brown tried a variety of tactics against Wilson, accusing him of ignoring the
state's economic woes, raising taxes and lax parole policies, among others. But
little of the criticism seemed to stick; it wasn't until the final weeks of the
campaign, when Brown enthusiastically embraced opponents of Proposition 187,
that she seemed to rally public support.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994
Mercury News Staff Writers Mitchel Benson, Gina Boubion and Pamela Kramer
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS
Kathleen Brown conceded graciously just after 10 p.m.
941109 SS 18EL FS 3
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Pete Wilson cheers as he watches returns and learns the news of his
victory.
941109 SS 1EL FS 3; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 9, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BATTLE WILL MOVE TO COURTS AFTER SPLITTING STATE ALONG ETHNIC LINES
PROP. 187

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 1EL

LENGTH: 776 words


Proposition 187 - the most passionately fought ballot measure in California
history - is now law after winning voter approval Tuesday by an overwhelming
margin.

But an army of civil rights lawyers across the state planned to wake up early
this morning to begin dismantling the measure, aimed at denying public schooling
and most taxpayer-funded services to illegal immigrants.

Although the liberal Bay Area appeared to be rejecting the measure, conservative
areas of Southern California such as Orange and San Diego counties passed it by
such overwhelming margins that they more than canceled the Northen California
vote.

"There has been an awakening of public interest that this is an issue we have to
deal with instead of ducking," said Alan Nelson, a former Immigration and
Naturalization Service commissioner who helped pen the measure.

Proponents had an explanation for the unexpectedly large margin of victory.
"Once 187 got branded as racist, I think a lot of people didn't want to say they
were for it in the polls," said Jeff Black, 29, of Walnut Creek, attending Gov.
Pete Wilson's victory party in Los Angeles. "But once they were in the booth,
they voted their heart."

Racial, ethnic split

Exit polls found that the vote was split along ethnic and racial lines. Whites
favored it 3-2, blacks were split evenly and Hispanics rejected it by 3-1.

Latino activists tried to put an optimistic spin on results that many people in
their community considered devastating.

"There hasn't been a campaign in decades - since Bobby Kennedy (ran for
president in 1968) - when so many Latinos have come together," said Mike Garcia,
president of Service Employees International Union Local 1877 in San Jose.

"Look around," Garcia said, pointing to the dozens of young Latinos crammed into
the anti-187 headquarters on San Jose's Alum Rock Avenue "They can't wait to be
18 to vote. We have the demographics here. . . . This has woken up the sleeping
giant."

Victor, a 35-year-old illegal immigrant and farmworker who traveled from Salinas
to San Jose for a "victory party," said "voters are making a very strong error
if they support 187. All the crops are pulled by undocmented workers. In my
crew, three have documents and 20 are undocumented.

"I don't understand why Pete Wilson blames me for the state's economic
problems," he said. "I pay taxes. I shop in the same grocery stores."

'Uncertain future'

Opponents of 187 were also buoyed by the fact that it faces a highly uncertain
future. Lawyers working for immigrant and civil-rights groups said they intended
to file several lawsuits this morning. The proposition's most controversial
provision - aimed at expelling illegal immigrant children from school - was
expected to be put on hold by a lower court since it flies in the face of a 1982
U.S. Supreme Court decision.

After days of demonstrations and marches against the measure, the Los Angeles
Police Department went on a state of "maximum deployment," but there were no
immediate reports of violence.

The vote was expected to exacerbate U.S.-Mexico relations.

Even before the results came in, at least 40 teen-agers wearing bandannas and
hoods overturned cash registers and trash cans, hurled hamburgers and Happy
Meals and kicked in glass windows at a McDonald's in Mexico City.

The protesters then painted black graffiti reading "Yankee Go Home" and "No to
187" before fleeing as police arrived.

The debate over 187 proved even more incendiary than the white-hot battle over
Proposition 13, the opening salvo of the national tax revolt of the late '70s.
Proponents contended that California's 1.6 million illegal immigrants were
driving California into bankruptcy - and that the state's taxpayers should no
longer be forced to pick up their tab. Passing the initiative, they said, would
"demagnetize" the state and send a clear message to Washington that Californians
wanted immigration laws enforced.

Opponents argued that Proposition 187 did nothing about border enforcement and
was mean-spirited, divisive and racist.

Latinos, foes said, would be more "suspect" than others. Kicking illegal
immigrant children out of schools, they said, would create a new underclass and
drive more kids into bullet- and graffiti-spraying gangs. Making illegal
immigrants afraid to go to the doctor, foes argued, would lead to the spread of
disease and the birth of sickly U.S. citizens.

On Columbus Day, 70,000 Proposition 187 foes protested in downtown Los Angeles.
Last Friday, 10,000 opponents took to the streets of downtown San Jose.
Thousands of school children walked out of classes to decry the measure.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994
Mercury News Staff Writers Brad Kava and Gina Boubion and Pamela Kramer of the
Mercury News Los Angeles Bureau contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 10, 1994 Thursday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

THE POWER SHIFT. FEDERAL JUDGE BARS ENFORCEMENT AS IMMIGRATION BATTLE GOES TO
COURTROOMS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 833 words


The day after Proposition 187 passed by a stunning margin, Gov. Pete Wilson
continued to sing its praises, opponents vowed to disobey it, and a federal
judge put the new law on hold for at least a week.

While there were scattered street demonstrations in the Bay Area and Southern
California, the real battle over 187 moved to the courtrooms.

Attorneys filed the first of eight lawsuits against the divisive measure as soon
as courthouses opened at 8 a.m. Wednesday, 12 hours after the polls closed. By
early afternoon, U.S. District Judge Matthew Byrne Jr. in Los Angeles barred
statewide enforcement of the anti-illegal-immigrant measure until he can hold
another hearing.

"Proposition 187 is clearly a frontal attack on the Constitution," said Lucas
Guttentag, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union. "It's already
creating a reign of terror."

Along with the ACLU and a half-dozen other civil rights and ethnic groups, the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund filed suit in Los Angeles to
ask for an immediate restraining order to block 187. The suit claims that the
initiative violates a clause in the U.S. Constitution giving the federal
government sole power to regulate immigration.

A separate restraining order was also issued by San Francisco Superior Court
Judge Stuart Pollak after a coalition of civil rights lawyers filed a
class-action suit challenging Proposition 187 as an unconstitutional denial of
education to children.

That order had been considered a sure thing, since the ballot measure -- aimed
at denying public schooling and most public services to illegal immigrants --
conflicts with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling granting undocumented children
equal rights to an education.

Proposition 187 was approved by 59 percent of voters, but Latino voters
decisively rejected it. One reason for their concern is that school districts
and health clinic workers are now required to turn in "suspected" illegal
immigrants -- and many Latinos feel they will be the prime suspects.

Wilson, re-elected in a landslide Tuesday after taking ownership of the illegal
immigration issue, moved Wednesday to assure Californians -- particularly
Latinos -- that 187 would be implemented fairly.

'No room for bigotry'

"There is no room in California for bigotry and discrimination, and we will
continue to protect the rights of our legal immigrants . . . and it applies
regardless of whether the English they speak is with an accent," Wilson said at
a press conference at the Doubletree Inn in Los Angeles. "California remains a
state of compassion and tolerance."

The governor said he had "sympathy, even admiration" for "the gumption" of
illegals. "But I believe our first priority should be to the legal residents of
this state."

Wilson later issued an executive order instructing state agencies to develop
emergency regulations implementing the measure. He also wrote a letter to
President Clinton, who had fiercely opposed 187, asking for his cooperation in
taking "whatever administrative or legislative action" necessary to make sure
California doesn't lose federal funds because of 187.

At a news conference announcing the San Francisco lawsuit, opponents of the
measure portrayed Wilson as a shameless scoundrel, contending that a governor
who is sworn to uphold the Constitution should not be subverting it for
political gain.

'All racists are supporters'

"This is not to say that all Proposition 187 supporters are racists, but it is
to say that all racists are 187 supporters," said Robert Rubin of the Lawyers'
Committee for Civil Rights.

School officials reacted quickly to the initiative's passage. Delaine Eastin,
the newly elected state superintendent of schools, told schools to ignore 187
even before the court orders came down.

Dr. Bill Erlendson, assistant superintendent of the San Jose Unified School
District, sent e-mail advisories to principals, instructing them to tell their
staffs that it was business as usual.

At a morning assembly at Sequoia High School in Redwood City, Superintendent
Merle Fruehling, said the passage of 187 "represents the darkest day conferences
featured government, education and community leaders with varying agendas. They
sought to assure illegal immigrants that they still could send their children to
school and seek police assistance without fear.

A group of government leaders urged people, in the words of Los Angeles Mayor
Richard Riordan, to "ignore rumors and to continue to express their opinions
regarding this law in a peaceful and respectful manner."

Police Chief Willie Williams said that the lack of violent protests showed
"Angelenos can deal with polls, can deal with elections, can deal with the
trials that we've had this past year and handle it in a professional manner."
Another group of community leaders said that regardless of the legal battles
awaiting 187, its provisions should be greeted with non-compliance --
non-violently, but adamantly.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Prop. 187
Mercury News staff writers Edwin Garcia in Redwood City, Jack Fischer and Betty
Barnacle in San Jose and Gina Boubion and Pamela Kramer in Los Angeles
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rudy Escalante, right, displays copy of suit filed Wednesday in Los Angeles to
block Proposition 187.
941110 FR 16A P

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 10, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE POWER SHIFT. FEDERAL JUDGE BARS ENFORCEMENT AS IMMIGRATION BATTLE GOES TO
COURTROOMS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 945 words


The day after Proposition 187 passed by a stunning margin, Gov. Pete Wilson
continued to sing its praises, opponents vowed to disobey it, and a federal
judge put the new law on hold for at least a week.

While there were scattered street demonstrations in the Bay Area and Southern
California, the real battle over 187 moved into the courtrooms.

Attorneys filed the first of eight lawsuits against the divisive measure as soon
as courthouses opened at 8 a.m. Wednesday, 12 hours after the polls closed. By
early afternoon, U.S. District Judge Matthew Byrne Jr. in Los Angeles barred
statewide enforcement of the anti-illegal-immigrant measure until he can hold
another hearing.

"Proposition 187 is clearly a frontal attack on the Constitution," said Lucas
Guttentag, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union. "It's already
creating a reign of terror."

Along with the ACLU and a half-dozen other civil rights and ethnic groups, the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund filed suit in Los Angeles to
ask for an immediate restraining order to block 187. The suit claims that the
initiative violates a clause in the U.S. Constitution giving the federal
government sole power to regulate immigration.

A separate restraining order was also issued by San Francisco Superior Court
Judge Stuart Pollak after a coalition of civil rights lawyers filed a
class-action suit challenging Proposition 187 as an unconstitutional denial of
education to children.

That order had been considered a sure thing, since the ballot measure -- aimed
at denying public schooling and most public services to illegal immigrants --
conflicts with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling granting undocumented children
equal rights to an education.

Proposition 187 was approved by 59 percent of voters, but Latino voters
decisively rejected it. One reason for their concern is that school districts
and health clinic workers are now required to turn in "suspected" illegal
immigrants -- and many Latinos feel they will be the prime suspects.

Wilson, re-elected in a landslide Tuesday after taking ownership of the illegal
immigration issue, moved Wednesday to assure Californians -- particularly
Latinos -- that 187 would be implemented fairly.

"There is no room in California for bigotry and discrimination, and we will
continue to protect the rights of our legal immigrants . . . and it applies
regardless of whether the English they speak is with an accent," Wilson said at
a press conference at the Doubletree Inn in Los Angeles. "California remains a
state of compassion and tolerance."

Legal residents get priority

The governor said he had "sympathy, even admiration" for "the gumption" of
illegals. "But I believe our first priority should be to the legal residents of
this state."

Wilson later issued an executive order instructing state agencies to develop
emergency regulations implementing the measure. He also wrote a letter to
President Clinton, who had fiercely opposed 187, asking for his cooperation in
taking "whatever administrative or legislative action" necessary to make sure
California does not lose federal funds because of 187.

At a news conference announcing the San Francisco lawsuit, opponents of the
measure portrayed Wilson as a shameless scoundrel, contending that a governor
who is sworn to uphold the Constitution should not be subverting it for
political gain.

"This is not to say that all Proposition 187 supporters are racists, but it is
to say that all racists are 187 supporters," said Robert Rubin of the Lawyers'
Committee for Civil Rights.

School officials reacted quickly to the initiative's passage. Delaine Eastin,
the newly elected state superintendent of schools, told schools to ignore 187
even before the court orders came down.

Dr. Bill Erlendson, assistant superintendent of the San Jose Unified School
District, sent e-mail advisories to principals, instructing them to tell their
staffs that it was business as usual.

Counseling for students

Pedro Perales, superintendent of the Alum Rock Union Elementary School District,
on Wednesday sent crisis counseling teams to the district's six middle schools
to reassure students.

"They're safe, there's no change," Perales said. "It will take years for
anything to change, and we're here to teach them."

In riot-weary Southern California, a flurry of Wednesday news conferences
featured government, education and community leaders with varying agendas. They
sought to assure illegal immigrants that they still could send their children to
school and seek police assistance without fear.

A group of government leaders urged people, in the words of Los Angeles Mayor
Richard Riordan, to "ignore rumors and to continue to express their opinions
regarding this law in a peaceful and respectful manner."

Police Chief Willie Williams said that the lack of violent protest showed
"Angelenos can deal with polls, can deal with elections, can deal with the
trials that we've had this past year and handle it in a professional manner."
Another group of community leaders said that regardless of the legal battles
awaiting the 187, its provisions should be greeted with non-compliance --
non-violently, but adamantly.

Vote called 'shameful'

"It is a shameful vote," said Joe Hicks, the black executive director of the
Southern Christian Leadership Conference of Southern California.

He said the future for the state lies in a new civil rights movement to overcome
the fear that he said inspired the vote.

Said Warren Furutani, a Los Angeles school trustee: "Regardless of the law, the
issue of what's right and wrong is what we have to appeal to."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Prop. 187
Worried health clinic patients cancel appointments. PAGE 17A
Day One brings anger, determination and fear. PAGE 17A
Mercury News staff writers Jack Fischer and Betty Barnacle in San Jose and Gina
Boubion and Pamela Kramer in Los Angeles contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rudy Escalante, right, displays copy of suit filed Wednesday in Los Angeles to
block Proposition 187.
941110 FR 16A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 11, 1994 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

S.J. DISTRICTS FILE LAWSUIT AGAINST PROP. 187

BYLINE: MICHELLE GUIDO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 570 words


Attorneys for four San Jose school districts filed suit in federal court
Thursday to block enforcement of Proposition 187 and bar state agencies from
forcing the districts to expel students who are undocumented immigrants.

A judge in Los Angeles issued a temporary order Wednesday that bars enforcing
the measure statewide. San Jose school officials acknowledged that their suit
may not force any new action, but they wanted to formally challenge the new law
themselves.

"Since there's so many injunctions throughout the state, this would be just be
one more injunction," said San Jose Unified School District spokesman Bill
Erlendson. "But it's our way of showing the community that we are not going to
roll over on this one."

The suit was brought by Alum Rock, Franklin-McKinley, San Jose Unified and East
Side Union High school districts. It charges that Proposition 187 -- which
passed by a 3-2 ratio Tuesday -- violates the U.S. Constitution. The measure
would deny education, social services and all but emergency health care to those
who cannot prove their legal residency.

"I think we ought to be doing things to promote education and to assist young
people regardless of their nation of origin," said East Side Superintendent Joe
Coto.

Coto's 25,000-student district is about one-third Hispanic and one-third Asian.
More than 6,000 East Side students speak little or no English, and Coto
speculates that those students could be unfairly targeted if districts are
forced to comply with the new law.

"We believe that implementing Prop. 187 will be a very difficult process," Coto
said. "It was such a divisive issue in this community. We had administrators and
teachers opposed to it, and parents and students against it."

School district officials would not speculate Thursday on how many illegal
residents are enrolled in their schools. All four of the districts have large --
in some cases up to 90 percent -- minority populations.

An army of civil rights lawyers across the state filed legal challenges to the
ballot measure in state and federal court Wednesday. The suits were filed on
behalf of taxpayers and children, arguing that their federal right to a public
education was being violated.

Legal challenges

Defendants in those cases included Gov. Pete Wilson, Attorney General Dan
Lungren, acting state schools chief William Dawson and some individual school
districts.

In the San Jose case, by contrast, the lawsuit was filed by the school districts
themselves.

"They were very concerned that they were going to be placed in this role of
policeman and forced to deny education to students," said Marilyn Kaplan, one of
the attorneys on the case.

Erlendson said the districts will ask the court to order the state, which is the
defendant, to pay the cost of the lawsuit. He said he did not know what the cost
would be.

Federal mandate

He said San Jose Unified joined in this lawsuit to show solidarity with other
local districts with large minority and immigrant populations. Nearly a quarter
of San Jose Unified's 31,000 students speak little or no English. He also said
that federal law mandates that school districts provide an education to all
children.

"The question for us is which law do you follow -- federal or state law?"
Erlendson said. "If we don't obey the federal law we stand to lose a great deal
of (federal magnet school and desegregation) money."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter edition ran in the Morning Final Edition.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 11, 1994 Friday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

INS CLERK ACCUSED OF FORGERY;
OFFICIALS SAY MAN SOLD COUNTERFEIT DOCUMENTS

BYLINE: BRAD KAVA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 286 words


A clerk at San Jose's Immigration and Naturalization Service office -- allegedly
caught in the act on hidden video cameras -- was indicted this week on charges
of selling forged travel documents, work authorizations and passports to
undocumented immigrants.

Gerardo Duenes, 31, of San Jose, was arrested outside the busy San Jose INS
office Wednesday by officers with the U.S. Office of the Inspector General and
was released on $50,000 bail. He was the subject of a yearlong investigation,
said Assistant U.S. Attorney Tony West.

"There is a large market for counterfeit documents," West said. "Particularly
travel documents that allow individuals to travel in and out of the country
freely."

For 18 months, Duenes allegedly sold documents for $500 to $1,000 while working
as an information officer, West said. He sold some documents to people he met at
the office and others through a middleman, West said.

Officials were led to Duenes when a Mexican traveler was stopped at San Jose
International Airport in March 1993 with forged papers. He said he got them from
Duenes.

Officers built a case through a series of interviews with people who bought
false documents, West said. The prosecutor said Duenes admitted to agents of the
inspector general's office in July 1993 to selling 10 false documents. He was
then placed on limited duties, away from an area where he had access to
documents.

Duenes wasn't arrested then, and he told officers he had stopped making the
documents.

However, West said, officers continued their investigation by placing two hidden
surveillance cameras in the office.

If convicted, Duenes faces a maximum of 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 12, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEALTH OFFICIALS PLEDGE TO DEFY MEASURE'S LIMITS, JOIN LEGAL BATTLE

BYLINE: DONNA ALVARADO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 375 words


South Bay health leaders rallied Friday against Proposition 187's order to deny
health care to illegal immigrants, pledging defiance and pinning their hopes on
a pending legal challenge.

"We're not going to turn anybody away," said Archie Moore, chairman of the board
of the Family Health Foundation of Alviso, a non-profit clinic that serves
low-income patients, at a news conference called to publicize opposition.

Alternate funding

"If the government decides to take money from us," Moore said, pounding the
table where he sat, "we're going to go out and find other sources of funding."
Moore and leaders of several other health clinics emphasized that they were
continuing to provide medical care as usual to their clients, regardless of
immigration status, and would not comply with Proposition 187 until legal
challenges to the law are resolved.

"We remain defiant against snitching on any pregnant woman," Sam Maestas,
executive director of the Gardner Health Center in central San Jose, told a
crowd of about 75 people attending the rally. "We remain defiant against a law
so inhumane."

Officials from school districts in the area, including Alum Rock and Santa
Clara, spoke against Proposition 187 at the rally, as did a representative from
Good Samaritan Health System's school-based clinics.

The president of the San Jose chapter of National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People said that those who opposed Proposition 187 before
the election would continue to work for its defeat now.

"The fight is not over," Tony Alexander, NAACP's local chapter president, told
the crowd. "It's time to take it to the courts."

Several speakers said they worried that patients won't show up for their clinic
appointments for fear they will be reported to immigration authorities. No
reporting promised

They promised that no one would be reported, and they urged patients to keep
their appointments.

"We are not giving the names of our patients to anyone, " said Jana Cunningham,
public affairs director for Planned Parenthood of Santa Clara, San Benito and
Monterey Counties.

She added that many teen-agers who visit their clinics, even those who are legal
citizens, do not have documentation to prove their status.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See also related story on page 1A of this section.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 15, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CROSSING THE LINE OF LOGIC ON PROP. 187

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 375 words


In logic that would have delighted Lewis Carroll, Robert Rubin of the Lawyers'
Committee for Civil Rights said, "This is not to say that all Proposition 187
supporters are racists, but it is to say that all racists are 187 supporters"
("The power shift," Page One, Nov. 10).

Think of the enormous potential opened up by this line of reasoning, say for
Proposition 186, the single-payer health plan: "Not all 186 supporters are
Marxists, but all Marxists support 186."

Yes, there are some racists around, and it is safe to say that they voted for
Proposition 187. But then racists would vote in favor of any immigration- reform
measure, wouldn't they? So the logic would imply that any immigration-reform
legislation is racist, which is absurd.

Immigration reform is not a white issue. Even immigrant advocates such as
Antonia Hernandez of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
concede that minorities often are the worst victims of the adverse impacts of
the current high levels of immigration. Something must be done, and sloppy
patterns of logic will not bring us solutions.

-- Norman Matloff

Walnut Creek

* I cannot say how appalled I was when East Side Union High School District
Superintendent Joe Coto was quoted as saying: "I think we ought to be doing
things to provide education and to assist young people regardless of their
nation of origin," and then filed suit against the voters' mandate of
implementing Proposition 187 (Local, Nov. 11). A San Jose Unified School
District spokesman said of the suit: "It's our way of showing the community that
we are not going to roll over on this one."

I suspect the frivolous arguments about implementation are minimal at best.
Teachers are already policemen in their responsibility of having to report even
suspected abuse or criminal activity. It does not seem unreasonable at
registration for all parents to produce the necessary documentation; parents
must already come with birth certificates and records of shots.

The issue of Proposition 187 had tremendous media scrutiny, was intensely
debated and voted on. I suggest that the supposed champions of our educational
system not teach sour grapes civics lessons to their wards.

-- Dave Thomas

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the editor

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 15, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAKING BACK OUR COUNTRY

BYLINE: PATRICK J. BUCHANAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 408 words


HOW DID Proposition 187 win in a landslide when pollsters said it was dead even,
and sinking like a stone?

My guess: At long last a spirit of American nationalism, of healthy patriotism,
reasserted itself in California.

When rioters in Mexico City trashed a McDonald's to show their rage over 187,
when demonstrators in L.A. marched beneath Mexican flags, they generated a huge
backlash. The message of Prop. 187: A majority of Americans are ready to take
their country back.

About time. For what was tolerated, in silence, by Bill Clinton and the U.S.
Congress, during the battle over 187, was a gross insult to American
sovereignty. During the final weeks of debate:

* Mexico's deputy foreign minister, Andres Rozenthal, declared the "government
of Mexico would work actively to prevent the passage of the anti-immigration
initiative 187."

* Mexico's foreign minister said that, just as Mexico accepted international
observers in its elections, the U.S., after NAFTA, must accept "similar
involvement, especially when the interests of your immediate neighbor are at
stake."

* Mexican business interests close to President Carlos Salinas de Gortari ran
radio and newspaper ads in the U.S. against Prop. 187.

* All 10 Mexican consulates in California worked openly for the defeat of Prop.
187, contacting both Americans of Mexican ancestry and illegal aliens to tell
them how to fight it.

* Some 2,000 demonstrators marched in Mexico City in front of the U.S. embassy
denouncing "Damned Gringos!" An American flag was burned.

* Salinas, in his last state of the union address, called U.S. supporters of 187
"xenophobic," and asserted his government's intent "to continue to act in
defense of . . . our migrant workers."

In short, the Salinas regime intervened flagrantly in a U.S. election -- and no
U.S. leader mumbled a word of protest. Now, Salinas is asserting a right to
export his armies of unemployed to the United States, and wants to negotiate
about his right to do so.

America would do well to nip this movement in the bud, and let Mexico City know
its conduct during the campaign for Prop. 187 is intolerable and not to be
repeated.

Next, Clinton should order the Corps of Engineers to begin erecting an
unbreachable security fence on the U.S. southern border. When Mexico's borders
were breached by Guatemalans, Mexico City sent its army to stop the incursion.
We should have done the same, a long time ago.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
Patrick J. Buchanan is a nationally syndicated columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MARGARET SCOT
941115 ED 11B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 16, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. LIKELY TO ADMIT UP TO 8,000 CUBANS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: Washington


The Clinton administration is expected to allow U.S. resettlement of up to 8,000
Cubans now being sheltered at the Guantanamo Bay naval base and in Panama. All
involve parents with children who are minors.

The decision, which still has not received final approval, would constitute a
retreat from President Clinton's pledge in August not to allow any boat people
picked up by the U.S. Coast Guard to resettle directly to the United States.

Officials have since decided that the policy did not take into account the
educational and other needs of Cuban children at the two sites.

The decision could affect about a quarter of the 32,000 Cubans who are receiving
sanctuary, but officials stressed that no firm figures were available.

The administration had been planning to grant about 25,000 immigrant visas to
Cubans during the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. The new exceptions could raise
that figure to more than 30,000.

In August, hoping to stem the mass exodus of Cuban boat people, Clinton ordered
that all Cubans rescued at sea be sent to Guantanamo; the population there is
about 24,000. An additional 8,000 are being housed at U.S. military facilities
in Panama.

The order barring U.S. resettlement was partially eased several weeks ago when
300 sick and elderly Cubans and unaccompanied children were given immigration
visas.

Cuban exiles in south Florida have been campaigning for additional exceptions,
and the administration has been concerned about exile protests during the
hemispheric summit meeting Clinton will host next month in Miami. Announcement
of the new policy is expected to be made before the summit.

Asked about administration thinking, State Department official David Johnson
noted that Clinton had expressed concern about the fate of the children at
Guantanamo and in Panama and that the policy was being reviewed.

Cuba agreed to halt the exodus Sept. 9, and only a small number of Cubans have
tried to flee since then.

The new policy is expected to be limited to parents and children.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 16, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

WBC BAN CITES PROP. 187 VOTE

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 170 words


The world's biggest boxing authority announced a ban Tuesday on world title
fights in California because of what it termed "racist" measures against illegal
immigration approved last week.

"The World Boxing Council will not approve any world title fight" in California
as of Nov. 22 this year, WBC President Jose Sulaiman told a news conference in
Mexico City.

He added that no Mexican boxers would be allowed to take part in professional
boxing in that state on pain of WBC sanctions.

The boycott will last until March 30 next year but may be extended if
Proposition 187 remains in force.

The voter initiative, which has already been challenged in the courts, would cut
off education, welfare and non-emergency health care to California's estimated
1.7 million illegal immigrants.

Sulaiman, a Mexican, said the WBC would ban boxers, promoters and managers who
did not heed the boycott for two years.

The Mexico City-based WBC is the biggest of several bodies which organize
international boxing.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 20, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINIC CHIEF LOOKS AFTER FELLOW CAMBODIAN;
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 921 words


In a quiet corner cubicle in Valley Medical Center's bustling Refugee and Child
Health Clinic hangs a small poster -- a poignant reminder of another time,
another place, another life.

It shows two villagers smiling under the four words, "Cambodge, Je me souviens,"
-- "Cambodia, I remember you."

It's been 18 years since Kent Khauv left Cambodia under harrowing circumstances.
But the 65-year-old former buffalo-herder, film maker and journalist has never
forgotten his homeland nor its people. Now a medical clerk and the refugee
clinic's chief troubleshooter, he has devoted much of his life here to educating
and inspiring many of the 4,000 Cambodian immigrants in Santa Clara County.

A computer whiz who learned his way around the machines on his own, Khauv
maintains the clinic's on-line systems and keeps track of health statistics on
scores of refugees.

On top of that, Khauv has volunteered most of his free time for the past decade
to Cambodian New Life, a non-profit San Jose social services agency he helped
establish that provides English classes and counseling to thousands of
immigrants.

He has become a role model for those refugees. Most of them live in San Jose and
arrived here poor and illiterate and have continued to struggle long after other
immigrants have assimilated.

"I have seen a lot of Cambodian refugees here," Khauv said. "All have lost loved
ones. Not one single family came here with the entire family safe and sound. I
feel, compared to them, I have been lucky."

Khauv calls himself fortunate, yet he left Cambodia with nothing. All he took
from the war-torn country were painful memories: of a brother who was executed
by the Khmer Rouge, of a son killed by a terrorist bomb explosion, and of two
daughters who were left behind when Cambodia's borders were sealed and whose
fate would remain a mystery to him for five years.

Born in Battambang, the country's second-largest city, Khauv did have certain
advantages.

Middle-class upbringing

While most other refugees were farmers, Khauv was raised by middle-class parents
who ran a shop that sold religious artifacts and musical instruments. While
other refugees couldn't even write in their native tongue, Khauv graduated from
high school and became fluent in four languages. And while most other Cambodians
grew up isolated from American culture, Khauv had worked alongside Americans for
years.

He was a clerk in the U.S. Embassy in Cambodia when he got his first chance to
come to the United States in 1962. Hired by Voice of America as an announcer, he
was sent to Washington, D.C., to broadcast American pop songs and such historic
events as the Kennedy assassination to listeners in Southeast Asia.

He returned to Cambodia. When revolution broke out in 1970, Khauv joined UPI as
an interpreter and guide, much like Haing S. Ngor in the film "The Killing
Fields."

Son killed by bomb

Five years later, though, tragedy struck. His oldest son, a Cambodian Army
police officer, was killed by a bomb meant for the U.S. ambassador. Khauv took
the loss hard. UPI transferred him across the border to Bangkok, hoping that by
distancing him from the war, he would recover.

But Khauv's heartbreak had only begun. He left Cambodia just as the Khmer Rouge
won the war and borders were sealed, trapping his two married daughters in the
country. Every weekend, he would journey to the border to question refugees. But
none knew the fate of his daughters.

Khauv, who held a Cambodian passport, was forced to leave Bangkok when Cambodia
severed ties with Thailand. UPI sent him to Hong Kong for six months until he
and his wife received visas to come to New York in 1976.

Vow kept alive

Though they were living in a new country his wife, Sarith, kept alive a vow she
made in their old land. She told herself that if she ever found out her
daughters were alive, she would shave her head, a traditional act of sacrifice.
In 1980, she shaved off her long, dark hair when word came that her daughters
were alive and had managed to flee to Bangkok with a flood of other refugees.
Four months later, the daughters, their husbands and children were reunited with
the rest of the Khauv family in New York.

Then Khauv kept alive a vow of his own. With his wife, four children and 10
grandchildren now safe in the United States, he turned his attention to other
Cambodians here who needed help. His work with UPI eventually led him to San
Francisco and when cuts there eliminated his job, he changed careers.

With his guidance, Cambodian New Life has taught new immigrants how to cope in a
new country, teaching them everything from how to discipline their children
without abusing them to how to take a bus. Someday, Khauv hopes to add a library
to the center.

Attends Cambodian functions

He is a familiar face at nearly every Cambodian funeral, wedding and cultural
event in the valley. He has knocked on doors in the Cambodian community to make
sure parents immunize their children. And he has grown into a trusted adviser to
the San Jose Police Department on the Cambodian community. Three years ago, he
was presented with a special merit award from the county's human relations
commission.

"You meet him and you know right away he's a fine person," said Betty Kinoshita,
program director at the clinic. "And you can't say that about many people you
meet."

"He cares a lot about his people," added Sath Men, chairman of Cambodian New
Life. "He gives them any support he can. It's just part of his character."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Kent Khauv attends nearly every Cambodian funeral, wedding and cultural event in
the valley. With his guidance, Cambodian New Life has taught new immigrants how
to cope in a new country.
941120 LO 2B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 23, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR WANTS STATE COURT TO RULE ON 187 FIRST

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


Gov. Pete Wilson's lawyers said Tuesday the challenges to the Proposition 187
immigration initiative should be heard first in state court, a strategy that
could cost Wilson the U.S. Supreme Court review he says he wants.

In papers filed with a federal judge, Wilson's lawyers said federal courts
should refrain from ruling until state courts have had a chance to resolve
disputes over the meaning of the law and decide whether it violates the
California Constitution. They also said state regulations ordered by Wilson
could clarify legal issues.

"There is no reason not to let the state proceedings run their course without
interference from the federal court," said Deputy Attorney General Jon Ichinaga,
representing Wilson.

But U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer said during a hearing Tuesday that she
was not inclined to leave federal issues unsettled during lengthy proceedings in
the state courts.

With the state's agreement, the judge extended to Dec. 14 another federal
judge's order blocking enforcement of nearly all of Proposition 187. The only
provisions in effect increase criminal penalties for making or using false
immigration documents.

Pfaelzer also prohibited the Wilson administration from announcing any new
regulations before Dec. 14 on the interpretation or enforcement of the
initiative.

On Dec. 14, Pfaelzer is scheduled to hear arguments on a preliminary injunction
that would bar enforcement for an extended period. Unlike a restraining order,
an injunction can be appealed to a higher court.

Proposition 187 bans public education, social services and non-emergency public
health services for illegal immigrants, and requires officials in those programs
to notify federal immigration authorities about anyone they reasonably suspect
to be an illegal immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawyers for Gov. Pete Wilson have asked a federal judge to let
state proceedings on Proposition 187 take their course before federal courts
take up the matter. But the judge says it is a federal issue and wants it
settled before long.
941123 CA 3B 4

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 24, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSITION 187 ON THANKSGIVING DAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 429 words


Early in the 185Os, my newly landed forebears wrote of the kindness of the
"Americans" who shared pies, preserves and tools with the immigrant communities.
A few years later, these same Americans were galloping through these same
communities throwing torches because the new arrivers opposed slavery. It would
seem, with the passage of Proposition 187, that we Americans are in one for one
our periodic torch-flinging moods.

I was therefore pleased to read Joe Rodriguez's column and especially his
reference to Jack Kemp, William Bennett and we true conservatives who don't want
to join in the arson (Commentary, Nov. 22).

America is not an experiment in pulling up the ladder once you are in the tree
house. When America was filling up, the lords stayed in England, the princes in
Germany, the counts remained in France. Even black slaves were not the
chieftains and merchants of coastal West Africa. We were the low, the common,
many arriving one step away from a hanging. But look at us now.

The apparatus that once took the downtrodden and created the educated and
prosperous ain't working so great anymore. Heck, not so long ago, new immigrants
and alien residents could vote in this country. Gov. Wilson, quit trying to make
your fine distinctions between legal versus illegal. Immigration has been a
political football for so long that those categories are a mockery. We're all
pilgrims in this country.

This nation's social systems have long been saying "yes" while creating
deprivation. We now must begin saying "no" and, please get this, Mr. Newly
Elected Republican, at the same time find ways to enfranchise, empower and get
the American experiment going again.

Does this mean saying no to immigrants? Just the opposite.

Take those Chinese who spent their life savings and indentured themselves just
to huddle below decks in unseaworthy freighters for the chance to make it to
America. Swear them in as citizens right on the docks. They and the Iranian and
the Ethiopian and the Guatemalan and their children and their children's
children vitalize this nation. Without them, we are nothing special in this
world and our creed means nothing.

Another thing. What about these "nannygate" problems of public servants? Isn't
this just a case of the torch-throwers screaming that the pie-givers and
tool-sharers are not fit office? Those ignoble laws didn't come from on high.
Let's quit tying ourselves down with petty rules and give our new Americans-
to-be every possible chance.

Happy Thanksgiving, pilgrim!

- Charles Tips

Menlo Park

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 29, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ART REFLECTS IMMIGRANT SUFFERING;
DE ANZA SHOW COUNTERS PROP. 187 SENTIMENT

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 609 words


Black and white oblong shapes fill the canvas of "The Great Escape." Boats hang
on one side, body bags on the other in a powerful juxtaposition.

For San Jose artist Vi Ly, one depicts the harrowing manner in which so many
immigrants flee to the United States, while the other represents the emotional
or physical death they may face if they are forced back to their homeland.

At the Euphrat Museum of Art at De Anza College in Cupertino, a collection of
art works tell the story of the trauma, strain and sacrifice so many immigrants
face in their journey to a new land.

Artists and visitors say they hope the exhibit serves not only as inspiration
but also as a counterpoint to the backlash against immigration -- illegal and
otherwise -- that has grown even more apparent with the recent passage of
Proposition 187.

"I think people are not just against illegal immigrants but all immigrants,"
said museum director Jan Rindfleisch. "They think there are too many immigrants,
period, and too much cultural change."

"The art represents shared experiences that all people can relate to," she
added. "It's a way to get a connection to others."

The artists see another benefit.

"I hope the show reminds people that we are examples of immigrants who are not
on welfare, who are productive," said Ly, who fled Vietnam at age 11 with 600
other people aboard a boat and spent 14 months in a refugee camp. "We came and
we made it and we're not just sitting around."

The exhibit, "Coming Across: Art by Recent Immigrants, Part 2," embodies the
sentiments of artists from countries such as Ethiopia, Cambodia, Iran and the
former Soviet Union, who have immigrated to the United States, most since 1980,
and who now make their home in the Bay Area.

Artists such as Jose Meza Velasquez, a native of Mexico, communicate the hopes
and dreams that define this country. In a photo of his mural "Homage to America"
which hangs on the Fruitvale post office building in Oakland, the vivid,
colorful center panel shows a man and a woman, future leaders, against a
backdrop of the Statue of Liberty.

Su-Chen Hung and Gigi Janchang, both originally from Taiwan, created a dozen
oversize black and white photos displayed behind cracked glass, a reminder of
the borders and barriers that immigrants face.

In one photo titled "Why My Accent?" a 37-year-old Filipino accountant who came
to the United States in 1982 stands with his back to the camera. His quotation
at the bottom of the photo, reads, "People are impolite and impatient about my
accent. Why is a European accent considered cute and ours not?"

Visitors can convey their reactions about the exhibit by typing comments into a
computer in the corner of the gallery.

One anonymous person wrote, "Thank you for the exhibit. Proposition 187 is a
painful reminder that we need more awareness in our society."

Another man typed, "In this world, one never knows what's out there until one's
eyes are opened."

Angelica Carrasco, a 20-year-old De Anza student who toured the exhibit
Wednesday was touched by the strong messages of the artists.

"Their work seems to say they don't feel like they have a place here," she said.
"People from here can never feel the way these people do. But if you see these
works, you can get some idea of what they went through to get here."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Euphrat Museum exhibit at De Anza College, Stevens Creek Boulevard at Mary
Avenue in Cupertino, runs through Dec. 8. The museum is open Tuesdays through
Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Wednesday nights, 6 to 8 p.m.; and on Saturdays,
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. For more information, call: (408) 864-8836.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Student Bee Lin Ong at a computer that is part of the exhibit.
941129 LO 1B 3; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    November 29, 1994 Tuesday STREET EDITION

MANY U.S.-BASED SALVADORANS FACE DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: Washington


The United States will notify the Salvadoran government Thursday it intends to
end a program that has enabled 180,000 Salvadoran war refugees to remain in this
country without immigrant visas, officials say.

Vice President Al Gore will meet with Salvadoran President Armando Calderon Sol
in Mexico City to inform him that when the program expires on Dec. 31, it will
not be renewed. Three previous expiration dates affecting the Deferred Enforced
Departure program had been extended.

U.S. officials said, however, that many of these Salvadorans will be able to
delay their departure for months and, in some cases, years. Others, especially
those who are well-established here, could qualify for immigrant visas.

Approximately 1 million Salvadorans live in the United States, a significant
percentage of them illegally. Many of them fled the civil war that raged in that
country until a peace agreement was signed in early 1992.

The program had been extended several times in recent years, based largely on
Salvadoran government contentions that the country was not able to assimilate
large numbers of its citizens now living in the United States.

But with steadily improving economic conditions coupled with political stability
in El Salvador, the Clinton administration concluded a further extension could
not be justified, ignoring strenuous appeals by Salvadoran authorities.

The administration's thinking was partly influenced by growing anti- immigrant
sentiment in the United States, officials said.

The U.S. decision is a setback for El Salvador in two ways. Not only will the
country's job market be swamped, El Salvador also will lose a large portion of
the money U.S.-based Salvadorans send there.

Official estimates indicate that between $840 million and $1 billion is
repatriated each year, more than any export earns the country.

The administration rejected El Salvador's appeals that the Salvadorans who had
signed up under the program be allowed to remain in the United States
indefinitely.

But the changed status of these Salvadorans will be implemented slowly. As an
example, the Immigration and Naturalization Service allows them to extend their
work permits for nine months.

Some will be allowed to remain permanently if they are able to prove to U.S.
authorities that their repatriation will result in severe hardship. Applying for
political asylum is another option.

In some cases, those who have remained here for seven years or more without
running afoul of the law will be allowed to stay.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 3, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUBAN EXILES MUST PROVE 'HARDSHIP' TO ENTER U.S.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 740 words

DATELINE: Washington


Rejecting entreaties from the Cuban-American community, the Clinton
administration announced Friday that only families suffering "extraordinary
hardship" would be allowed to enter the United States from refugee camps in
Panama and the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The decision was a turnaround from administration pronouncements that none of
the 30,000 Cuban detainees would be granted asylum, but it stopped short of the
wholesale release many influential Cuban-American groups had been urging.

There are about 3,000 Cuban children under 18 in the camps. An estimated 8,000
people would enter the United States if the children and their families were
allowed free exit -- which would decrease the camps' population by about a
third.

"It is a disaster," said Frank Calzon, Washington representative of Freedom
House and a prominent advocate on Cuban-American issues. "People were expecting
them all to come out and now they have to face the fact that hundreds, perhaps
thousands of Cuban children will spend Christmas behind barbed wire."

How the administration arrived at the "extraordinary hardship" criteria is a
graphic illustration of the many competing interests that drive the dialogue
behind immigration policy.

When the Clinton administration slammed the door on the rafters Aug. 19 as a way
of stopping the chaotic exodus from Cuba, most Cuban-Americans in Miami
supported the move as a tough response to Cuba leader Fidel Castro. But the
anguish provoked by the sight of relatives and fellow Cubans behind barbed wire
quickly turned into intense pressure on the administration to rethink the
policy.

The administration also worried that disgruntled Cuban-Americans could disrupt
the Summit of the Americas next weekend in Miami, when 23 Latin American and
Caribbean heads of state are scheduled to meet with President Clinton.

So a few weeks ago, some senior administration officials proposed a fairly broad
release program.

Floridians then voiced concern that a new flood of Cubans would burden their
state's strained treasury. Like California, that state has sued the federal
government to try to recoup some of the tax funds spent on illegal immigrants.
Cuban-American groups in Florida mobilized to meet that challenge. Cuban leaders
in Miami solicited and received pledges from individuals, corporations and
private institutions to cover more than half the estimated $15 million needed to
relocate 8,000 refugees. The commitments include free flights, scholarships from
Catholic schools and about 9,000 sponsors willing to take in a refugee and
guarantee that the refugee would be provided for financially for at least a
year.

Nevertheless, the broader release plan was rejected by administration officials
because of fears it would trigger an exodus of thousands of Cuban rafters.

"This is indicative of the debate within the administration over how to deal
with the situation," said Jose Cardenas, Washington representative of the
Cuban-American National Foundation, which aggressively promoted a more extensive
release.

"Our overall objective is to get everyone out of there and we see this as a step
in the right direction," he said. "We are also well aware of the anti-immigrant
mood that prevails around the country, but this remains a very important matter
for our community."

Attorney General Janet Reno said Friday in a written statement that at Clinton's
direction she would begin considering admitting children "for whom long-term
presence in the safe havens at Guantanamo and Panama would constitute
extraordinary hardship."

In explaining what would meet the hardship test, Doris Meissner, commissioner of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, cited illnesses or other forms of
disability so severe that they could not be treated at the military hospitals
located near the camps.

Meissner said at a news conference Friday afternoon that she could not predict
how many Cubans would qualify for the humanitarian program but that it would
only apply to exceptional cases.

Although the children have been living in tents for more than three months and
are not attending school, Meissner said, "The fact of being in a camp in and of
itself does not constitute an extraordinary hardship for the sake of this
program."

There are 31,000 Cubans being held in Guantanamo and Panama. Meissner said
Friday's decision did not apply to the 5,700 Haitians at Guantanamo.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 5, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 FOES MAY TARGET DISNEY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: Tucson, Ariz.


Activists planning a national boycott of California over its anti- immigration
measure said Sunday they may also target Disney, Chevron, Arco and Mervyn's
department stores.

Organizers said the corporations contributed to Republican Gov. Pete Wilson or
the Proposition 187 campaign. Wilson's strong endorsement of the ballot measure
helped his Nov. 8 re-election in California.

The measure, which is on hold pending court challenges, denies educational,
health and other benefits to illegal immigrants.

Some organizations, including a Hispanic journalists' group and the Mexico
City-based World Boxing Council, already have canceled meetings they had planned
in California.

A weekend conference in Tucson to organize the boycott drew about 40
immigrant-rights representatives from 11 states.

Roberto Martinez of the American Friends Service Committee in San Diego said he
thinks an effective campaign discouraging tourists and conventions from
California can be launched by early next year.

Kevin de Leon, an activist from Los Angeles, said, "187 has galvanized a new
social movement."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See also related story on this page.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 6, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. SAYS ALLEGED RAT KILLER CAN'T BE TRUSTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: Fresno


Lawyers for a Taiwanese immigrant claim their client did not know his rural Kern
County land was inhabited by endangered rats when he apparently ran over several
of the rodents with his tractor.

Prosecutors, however, said the farmer has a history of lying.

Federal agents raided Taung-Ming Lin's southwest Bakersfield farm in February
and seized his tractor. Prosecutors dropped a civil lawsuit against Lin but have
proceeded with a criminal complaint against the immigrant.

Defense attorneys said Lin, who lives in Southern California, did not know that
the endangered Tipton kangaroo rat, San Joaquin kit fox and blunt-nosed leopard
lizard were living on his 723 acres of scrub land.

According to documents filed in U.S. District Court, Lin was sentenced to four
months in a Taiwan prison in 1987 for "fault injury" and lied on driver's
license and illegal immigration amnesty applications.

The papers allege that Lin did not file tax returns from 1991 to 1993 and
reported only $5,700 in income on his 1990 return even though his bank records
show deposits of nearly $3 million from 1990 to 1992.

He committed perjury in Los Angeles Superior Court in 1992 when he testified
that he had no property except his home, even though he owned his Kern County
farm and property in Riverside County, U.S. Attorney Karen Kalmanir said.

Lin's attorney, Tony Capozzi, dismissed the prosecution's findings as
irrelevant.

"This is a clear attempt by the government to try to discredit Mr. Lin by
bringing in extraneous matters that have nothing to do with whether he killed a
rat," he said.

Charles Stevens, U.S. attorney for the eastern district of California, defended
the government's prosecution of Lin.

"Like all defendants and witnesses in a criminal trial whose credibility is at
issue, Mr. Lin is subject to impeachment at trial," the statement said. "To that
extent, the defense is absolutely correct that the prosecution intends to
discredit Mr. Lin."

Lin's case has become a symbol for many people who say Lin is an example of the
government's increasing enforcement of the Endangered Species Act at the expense
of farmers and land owners. Hundreds of people, many of them farmers riding
tractors, paraded through downtown Fresno in August on behalf of Lin.

Lin's trial was scheduled to begin Monday, but has been postponed until next
year. He could be sentenced to a year in jail and fined up to $300,000 if
convicted of violating the Endangered Species Act.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 19, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POPPED 187 BADLY WRITTEN IMMIGRATION INITIATIVE FAILS CLARITY TEST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 330 words


CALIFORNIANS who voted for Proposition 187 can blame the federal judge who has
blocked enforcement of most of it for what may be months or years of legal
fighting over the measure's constitutionality. Or, more appropriately, they can
blame 187's authors.

Sloppy writing reveals sloppy thinking, and in interviews with the Los Angeles
Times, some leading sponsors are having serious second thoughts about the
wording and strategy of their initiative.

(check) It was authored by an unemployed accountant, a political consultant, a
civilian police employee, a state legislator and a former immigration chief.
They wrote it piecemeal, one person writing this and another that.

(check) State lawyers never reviewed the measure.

(check) Some of the authors had deep reservations about banning illegal-
immigrant children from public schooling but went along to maintain the support
of Orange County activists.

(check) One co-author flagged the measure's failure to define how a person would
be reasonably "suspected" by public servants of being an illegal immigrant.
"Holy Toledo, what is this?" the co-author said. "It won't be in any other
propositions that (I) have anything to do with."

Some would say we're nitpicking, that the measure puts forth general principles
the state will carry out with new regulations. This argument leaves no room for
the courts, which means no room for our system of checks and balances. The votes
of the people, just like the votes of elected officials, are held up to the
Constitution.

We didn't support 187 because it scapegoats hardworking immigrants, punishes
children, endangers public health and tramples on civil rights.

But we understand that a good number of 187's supporters are not racists and do
not hate immigrants. They simply believed the measure promoted straight law
enforcement.

When all is said and done, the authors of Proposition 187 will owe apologies to
all, including many voters who believed in them.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 3, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOES OF PROP. 187 DRIFTING APART COALITION: HISPANIC LEADERS TRY TO KEEP THE
CAMPAIGN PARTNERSHIP ALIVE.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 982 words


The campaign to defeat Proposition 187 united Hispanics like never before,
joining members of the Norteno gang with Sureno rivals, blue collar Latinos with
college-educated Chicanos and newly arrived undocumented immigrants with
U.S.-born families.

It looked, for a time, like the foundation of a formidable South Bay activist
force.

But almost two months after the proposition won with 59 percent of the vote,
leaders are finding it a challenge to keep that partnership alive. The number of
volunteers is dwindling. Organizing meetings are increasingly difficult to pull
off.

"It's still too early to tell," said Mike Garcia, 42, a union president who
directed the local anti-187 forces. "I can't say where we'll end up. We have to
figure out first what we want to do and how we want to do it."

As the movement's leaders attempt to rebuild pre-election enthusiasm, they talk
of immigrant-rights conferences, voter registration drives, marches, boycotts,
vigils and promises to defeat similar anti-immigrant proposals.

But many people who were working 10 to 15 hours a week at the peak of the
anti-187 campaign have slipped into the background thinking that the battle for
immigrant rights is over.

A recent boycott committee session on Christmas week, for example, was bumped to
a later date three times and then postponed until after the New Year.

"People are busy with their jobs and other things," said Yolanda Vega, who was
the paid coordinator of the anti-187 campaign before the election and now
volunteers full time. "We have to work hard to find a time that is good for
everyone."

Since election day, a core group of volunteers has continued meeting in San Jose
while the constitutionality of Proposition 187, which would deny undocumented
immigrants schooling, health care and most public services, is fought over in
federal court.

Garcia said that there's plenty of work still to be done, particularly as he and
others try to confirm complaints claiming that 187 has led to discrimination or
abuse.

New, more stringent proposals also are finding their way into the state Capitol
and the U.S. Congress.

Currently, a statewide signature drive aims to put an initiative nixing
affirmative action programs on the 1996 ballot. And the U.S. House of
Representatives is expected to consider a bill that would deny benefits such as
health care, housing assistance and childhood immunizations to legal immigrants.

"We feel a great responsibility to sustain the movement because right now a lot
of our enemies are in control," Garcia said. "With 187, they couldn't have given
us a better organizing tool to get the Latino community united. But it will all
be lost if we can't keep it going."

The drop-off in enthusiasm is to be expected, especially since there isn't any
one issue looming over Hispanics' heads like 187. But Garcia said that as
leaders mount new campaigns and launch boycotts, he hopes Latinos will respond
in large numbers -- particularly first time participants in the political
process as a result of Proposition 187.

Olivia Rodriguez, 50, hopes to be one of those participants.

A member of Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church since she came from Mexico 23
years ago, she said fellow church members persuaded her and her husband,
Santiago, to get politically involved. Now the couple plan to become American
citizens.

"We had not done it because we did not want to go through the trouble," said
Rodriguez, a mother of six. "But 187 showed us how damaging that kind of
thinking is. We are never going to return to Mexico, so it is important for us
to have a say in politics here."

As part of her church's anti-187 campaign, Rodriguez has recruited three other
couples who also will apply for citizenship this year.

Rodriguez's church in East San Jose was a focal point for anti-187 activity.
Hundreds participated in an anti-187 vigil and hundreds more packed a board of
supervisors meeting to discuss the measure.

"This church has a long history of activism, but 187 really got people to
respond," said Brother Jose Ojeda, who directs the church's voter education
program.

The activism, though more subdued, has continued since the election. In early
December, 20 church members attended a meeting to discuss how 187 had affected
the lives of undocumented immigrants. And on Feb. 8, the church plans to
participate in a statewide candlelight vigil protesting the measure.

Proposition 187 also erased the apathy and ignorance of a whole generation of
young Hispanics, said Hugo Hernandez, 23, of San Jose.

Hernandez, a gulf war veteran and college student, has taken a break from the
movement for a couple of months to concentrate on school. But he plans to build
on the political awareness gained through 187.

"For the first time, I feel like my voice counts," said Hernandez, a Mexican
immigrant who organized student walkouts to protest 187. "I read the newspaper.
I watch television with a more critical eye and I question politicians' motives
a lot more than I used to."

News of such progress lets Garcia know that the movement sparked by 187 is still
changing attitudes among Hispanics.

On his office desk at Service Employees International Union Local 1877, the
anti-187 campaign leader keeps a copy of a newspaper article on the front page
of the Mercury News with the headline: "10,000 protest in San Jose."

The turnout at the Nov. 4 march surpassed expectations. It was an emotional time
for Garcia, who had not seen such a show of force in more than 20 years of
activism in the Hispanic community.

He plans to frame the article as a reminder of the popular union battle cry "Si
se puede!" (We can do it.)

"We made history," he said, of the thousands of Hispanics who turned out for the
march. "We let our strength be known. It's a moment in time that I hope for all
our sakes that we can repeat again."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 7, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FORCED RETURNS TO HAITI BEGIN AT GUANTANAMO

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 102 words


U.S. Marines in riot gear rounded up Haitian refugees Friday for a forced voyage
home from Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba. They hope to empty the camp in 10
days. Immigration officials hope to process 400 to 500 of the tent city's 3,800
residents daily and put them on Coast Guard cutters to clear the camp, said Army
Maj. Rick Thomas.

About 200 people were rousted Friday morning for interviews in which they were
given their last chance to make a case for political asylum in the United
States. Fourteen will remain at the base for further investigation to determine
if it is safe for them to return.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 11, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROJECT PROVIDES WORDS TO LIVE BY 'SURVIVAL' LITERACY: EASY ENGLISH FOCUSES ON
INDIVIDUAL STUDENTS' VOCABULARY NEEDS.

BYLINE: JIM DICKEY, Mercury News Staff Writer, JIM DICKEY, Mercury News Staff
Writer

SECTION: EAST EXTRA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 553 words


Your knowledge of English -- even if your grammar ain't perfect -- can help a
non-English speaking immigrant learn to survive in America.

The Easy English program of the Literacy Alliance of the South Bay is looking
for volunteers to teach "survival English."

Survival English is what, for instance, a young man from Costa Rica needed to
know when he got a job as a stock clerk in a sporting goods store, explained Dee
De La Torre, a spokesman for the program.

"The young man knew his sports equipment in Spanish, but he didn't know the
words in English, so as his tutor I started naming footballs, baseballs, bats,
gloves, etc. I used 'Sports Illustrated' magazine as a teaching aid."

Teaching is geared to the individual needs of the learner, De La Torre said.
Another example is a landscaper, who needs to know the English words for grass,
water, fertilizer, etc., he said.

Tutoring is done in public places, such as libraries, community centers and
churches and is usually on a one-to-one basis.

There are many immigrants, especially elderly Vietnamese, who often are confined
to their homes because they cannot navigate in an English-speaking world,
explained Debbie Trent, executive director of the Literacy Alliance of the South
Bay which sponsors the two-year-old Easy English program.

Such older people do not know how to read street signs or to take a bus.

"A lot of children of elders are requesting services for their parents so they
can have an easier time of dealing with life," Trent said.

The alliance, formed in 1990, uses some 1,800 volunteers in several literacy
programs but expects to never have enough tutors because of the large number of
people with reading problems, Trent said. "One in four Californians can't read
above the fourth-grade level," she said.

Currently, some 2,500 people are on the waiting list for tutors in all the
alliance's programs.

Among the programs the alliance sponsors is the Gift of Reading, co- sponsored
by the Mercury-News, which provides children's books to kids whose parents
cannot afford them. Other alliance programs include literacy and
English-as-a-second-language.

Tutors -- who do not have to speak a foreign language or have any experience as
a teacher -- help teach English and/or reading to people with learning
disabilities, homeless children, at-risk youth, recovering alcoholics and
inmates.

U.S.-born people needing literacy classes are usually those in low-paying jobs
who have reached a point in their lives where they realize they "need to be able
to read and write at a higher level so they can get better jobs," Trent said.
Volunteers are people "who want to use their time in a worthwhile manner," she
said. "They feel they have been enriched by learning and reading, and it makes
them feel very good if they can teach someone. They are mostly average working
people of all ages, from their early 20s to their 70s."

To volunteer, you must attend a tutoring orientation at 7 p.m. tonight or 7 p.m.
Tuesday. The sessions will be held at Immanuel Presbyterian Church, San Tomas
Expressway at Payne Avenue.
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

Call (408) 453-6589 to volunteer to teach in the Easy English program. To
volunteer in the Literacy Alliance's other programs, such as teaching homeless
children, call (408) 453-6711.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Also ran in E2: 6, E3: 2, E4: 1

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 13, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE SUN COULD SET ON UNCLE SAM'S GOOD NATURE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1039 words


Much ado has been made recently about immigration to California. It has been
suggested that immigrants have rights against the country they have entered.
There have even been threats that hard times in nearby lands will cause a surge
across the borders.

Surely this is nonsense. The opportunity to live and work in another country is
a privilege granted at the sole discretion of the host country, to be withdrawn
or modified as it sees fit.

I have immigrated twice; to Canada in 1956 and to the United States in 1958. In
both cases I patiently worked through the system, submitting all the required
medical records, police reports, references and endless forms.

Once here I did not complain about statues of Paul Revere or George Washington,
both American heroes who clobbered the British. Nor did I insist that British
history be taught in the schools, or British spelling be used for labour and
humour. After a while I learned that here cars have hoods and stores have
elevators, even that a banana was not bahnahnah. Only in jest do I ever mention
that Sir Francis Drake claimed California for England and therefore I have a
right to be here.

Though in no way ashamed of or rejecting my British heritage, I felt it was an
honor to be granted American citizenship and -- yes -- a privilege. I have voted
at every opportunity, paid lots of taxes and helped to add a fine daughter and
two grandchildren to the American population. I like to think this country has
not suffered a loss from my presence.

Millions of other foreign born folks have done as well or much better. But
perhaps there should be more talk of duties and responsibilities, less
insistence on rights and benefits. It would be a good start if everyone wanting
to come here first went to the appropriate consulate and obtained permission
from Uncle Sam, instead of looking for a hole in the border fence.

Not even the United States can accept half of the rest of the world as incomers.
If the Rio Grande gets dredged to 30 feet deep and a fence runs from sea to
shining sea, foreigners will only have themselves to blame.

-- Michael R. L. Barton

Sunnyvale
JUST IN CASE WE NEED TO DESTROY THE EARTH A FEW TIMES

At this time when our country is painfully looking for ways to reduce spending,
why are we overlooking our most wasteful expenditure of funds -- the maintenance
of far more nuclear weapons than are needed for deterrence?

For example, when one considers what just one U.S. Trident submarine could do if
used, it makes one wonder, "Why does the United States maintain a fleet of 15
Trident submarines?" One U.S. Trident submarine carries an explosive force of 20
million tons (20 megatons) of dynamite, a destructive force four times greater
than all the bombs, including nuclear, dropped in World War II. In World War II,
50 million people died.

One Trident submarine alone has 192 independently targeted warheads, each of
which is eight to 40 times more powerful than the Hiroshima bomb. If one
submarine's 192 warheads were used, nobody on Earth would be secure from the
possibility of being poisoned by invisible, odorless, tasteless, long-term
radioactive fallout.

Why is the United States borrowing billions of dollars each year to maintain a
fleet of 15 Tridents, when the use of five could turn our world into a dark,
cold, radioactive planet?

If vigorous debates could be started on these questions, it could help alert the
American public and the world to these wasteful and dangerous expenditures. Such
debates could also encourage other nations to go further with current
international agreements to get rid of all nuclear weapons from Earth.

Since we are looking for major ways to reduce federal spending and increase our
security, why aren't the above questions being widely and forcefully discussed?

-- Robert Aldridge

Santa Clara
BLAME CLINIC SHOOTINGS ON THE CLINIC SHOOTER

I thought Ellen Goodman's commentary on "Pro-life's death squad" (Jan. 5) did a
marvelous job of blaming the recent murders on the pro-life movement. But in
fairness we must not jump to conclusions so quickly. After all, there may be a
variety of factors that led up to the shootings.

Maybe John Salvi was a hard-working but unappreciated postal worker who was
recently laid off. Or perhaps he was a victim of childhood abuse. He may have
been treated unfairly because of his ethnic background. Or maybe he was a slow
learner in school. I have even heard rumors that he ate some Twinkies before
gunning down his victims.

In this age of victimization, it does not surprise me that some who would try to
shift the blame for the actions of a few deranged individuals onto their
political enemies. But if we are to automatically assume that this madman is not
responsible for his own actions -- a la Menendez, Bobbitt and Harding -- we must
not rule out all the possibilities.

Maybe he was potty trained at too early an age. Or perhaps his girl rejected
him. Or maybe . . .

-- Lorne Bandy

San Jose
POLITICIANS, ECONOMISTS SEE A ROSY JOB PICTURE

I am responding to the Jan. 9 Page One article "The job outlook in the Silicon
Valley is worrisome." I take exception to the impression that job opportunities
in this area are good for skilled engineers.

Electronics engineers are hurting just like most other electronics workers. Many
engineers have been laid off in recent years, some are still not working. Some
have left the area. Many are working as temporary contract employees.

The job picture for economists is brighter than it is for engineers. Economists
and the Labor Department have had a very rosy view of the American industrial
labor picture for a long time. So have San Jose politicians playing with their
trolley and the hockey stadium.

-- Marvin Kraft

San Jose
MEALWORMS: YUM!

I would like to tell you about the Jan. 9 article about mealworms ("Bookworms
force educator to eat his words -- and bugs.") It was not really true. In my
biology class at Independence High, we ate mealworms -- fried, sauteed, with
noodles and raw. They tasted like pecans or a kind of nut. The guy said it
didn't taste like anything. Well, if you don't believe me, then get and eat one
yourself.

-- Mike Meighan

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters To The Editor

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: ELEANOR MILL
950113 ED 6B 3

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 23, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE LURE OF EL NORTE PROP. 187 IS INTIMIDATING, BUT POVERTY DRIVES MEXICANS TO
SEEK JOBS IN THE U.S.

BYLINE: MICHELLE LEVANDER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS MONDAY; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1661 words

DATELINE: Pastor Ortiz, Mexico


THEIR FATHERS and grandfathers before them left family and home to earn a
living. Soon, the next generation, a group of teen-agers hanging out in the
village square, must decide its future. Unemployed and restless, all feel the
draw of El Norte.

"If God helps me, I'm going, maybe this year," says Carlos Barajas Ranjel, 16.
Unemployed, he finished school two years ago.

"I've been thinking of this law, that it could be difficult," his friend Arturo
Robledo says about Proposition 187. "If you get sick, if you are there alone,
who will care?" Still, dreaming of making more than $50 a week, he adds, that
with or without papers, "I have it in my head to go there."

California voters hoped to shut the door to would-be illegal immigrants with the
passage of Proposition 187. Here, in small rural towns in Michoacan, voters'
intentions collide with economic reality.

Word of the initiative, which would cut off non-emergency health care, social
services and education for the undocumented, has reached the most remote hamlets
of this Mexican state. Yet, as this season's traditional return to California's
fields and factories begins, the stream of migrants continues almost unabated.
Far greater forces impel between 30 percent and 50 percent of this town's adult
men, and tens of thousands of others from this state, to cross the border.

Mexican workers lost 60 percent of their purchasing power from 1982 to 1988 and
have yet to recover financially, says Santa Clara University Professor Jesus
Martinez, a specialist in immigration. In the countryside, children die of
hunger, the ill can't pay for medical treatment, and youngsters can't afford to
finish school. American dollars offer the prospect of a better life. And now
that the peso has lost roughly 40 percent of its value since Dec. 20, the
Mexican campesino will be under enormous pressure to emigrate.

"It is probably going to be another lost decade for the Mexican worker,"
Martinez says. "The migrants aren't going to pay attention to the message sent
by California voters. They'll be paying attention to the message in their
stomachs."

The money their husbands send home from California isn't enough, the women of
this village say. They don't see any alternative to their current situation and
only hope Proposition 187 doesn't make their precarious situation worse.

"Before this passed, we suffered so much," says one impoverished mother of two,
"and now we will suffer more. The only hope I have every year is that he goes,"
she says about her husband. "Here, he doesn't work.

Little to celebrate

The prospects for this year, locals say, have already dimmed.

On Christmas Eve, Jesus Ramos Avila sat eating a sweet Christmas tamale while
children danced and shouted in the bare front room. On this happiest of days, he
saw little cause for celebration.

Inflation has made it nearly impossible for a family to live off of the harvest
in his town on a fertile plateau in the north of Michoacan. Few jobs exist for
those who don't have land. With Mexico's Dec. 20 devaluation of the peso, he
says gloomily, more and more of the town's sons and daughter will be leaving.

"If a man buys a kilo of sugar and the sack has a hole in it, by the time he
gets home, he will have nothing," he says. "This is the economic situation of
the Mexican worker."

Ramos tallies up the prices for this season's planting of sorghum. Since 1978,
the prices of fertilizer, seeds and herbicides have multiplied as much as
eightfold, says this lifelong farmer. Villagers often can only recoup enough
money from the sale of the harvest to pay to plant the next. Faced with
financial troubles of his own, for the first time in his life, Ramos
contemplates going north at the age of 54.

Still, Proposition 187 has had its effect. Many people are shaken and fear the
worst for family members in California. Some, unaware that the courts have
temporarily halted most of the measure, are sending their wives and children
home. A few workers plan to go to other states. And, still others, already angry
about a U.S. labor market that they believe exploits Mexicans, vow they will
never return.

'I want to be there'

Estella Contreras, 23, and her young daughter are stuck living with her in- laws
in the village of Tangancicuaro, Michoacan. Her husband, anxious about
Proposition 187, sent them home from California. She doesn't know much about
Proposition 187 other than that it will make life hard.

"My father-in-law drinks a lot and it is difficult to be here," says Contreras,
who worked illegally in California for four years without incident. "I want to
be there without problems. I want to be here for the shortest time possible."

In Pastor Ortiz, there is much angry talk among the men about going elsewhere.
Home from the fields near Fresno or service jobs in San Jose or Los Angeles,
they gather on street corners or in the central square. For many, this visit in
December and January will be the only time they see wives and children. For all
of them, staying home is out of the question economically.

Braving the unknown, Ruben Vasquez plans to venture to Tennessee, where he knows
no one. He's heard the pay there is better. Another worker talks of going to
Georgia, where he has friends. But few have concrete plans to go elsewhere
without friends and family to help them find a job.

Most are waiting to see if things get worse for the undocumented in California.
Already, they worry about more discrimination, hostility from bosses and fewer
job opportunities.

"If they support this law, we will leave for another state," Jose Garcia Zamora
says over a beer with friends. "There won't be enough people to work in the
fields. The gringos won't do the work for $4.25 an hour."

Jose Alberto Serrano has a permanent residency card. His younger brothers don't.

"If the law goes into effect, everything will be taken away from us. It
terrifies everyone," he said. "This is how it is all the time, migration and
more migration."

With all the uncertainty about Proposition 187, "we talk, but we don't know what
will happen," he says. "We go forward blindly."

Future of Pastor Ortiz

With Mexico's economy in crisis, migrant villagers see little chance that they
can make Pastor Ortiz more than a place to visit.

The people will once again be asked to make sacrifices because of the
devaluation, says Carlos Hernandez, a Pastor Ortiz native who now lives in San
Jose. Prices will rise, but salaries won't catch up. And, many companies will
begin large scale layoffs.

Back in Pastor Ortiz, a villager echoes a similar sentiment.

"We spend so much time there," Luis Vargas says about his life with the other
farmworkers near Fresno. "Being here is like being a visitor in your village.
You feel like a stranger in your own home."

ECONOMIC TIES LINK CALIFORNIA WITH MEXICO

MICHELLE LEVANDER, Mercury News Staff Writer

Undocumented workers will continue flocking to California despite Proposition
187 because the anti-immigrant initiative doesn't threaten the century-old
economic ties between the state and Mexico, experts believe.

The initiative doesn't include any new sanctions that would cut off the supply
of jobs. As undocumented workers point out, employers still depend on their
cheap labor in farms, factories and restaurants for the jobs most Californians
shun.

Immigrants go elsewhere when surviving becomes harder. To do so, undocumented
workers have to forgo decades-old ties to jobs, friends and family. It is those
connections that allow younger immigrants to follow a tradition of migration
from Mexican states such as Jalisco, Zacatecas, Guanajuato and Michoacan.

Immigrants advance by continuing the customs of the family and village economy
abroad. When it becomes necessary to strike out for new territory, one or two
villagers will leave, with the financial help of family and friends. Once they
become established, they bring others along. They help each other with loans to
pay for "coyotes" to cross the border, a place to stay and job tips.

That's how immigrants responded to the California recession, said Gustavo Lopez
Castro, director of the Center for Rural Studies at El Colegio de Michoacan. In
1984, he found, 95 percent of immigrants from Michoacan went to California. In
1991, in the depths of the downturn, that declined to about 80 percent, while
the rest went to other states.

Migration patterns could change dramatically if Republicans follow through on
promises to enact tough new federal sanctions on top of the increased border
patrols announced by Attorney General Janet Reno. But for now, while
destinations shift, people keep coming.

Migrant workers in the United States funneled $3.3 billion into the Mexican
economy in 1990, according to a 1993 study for a University of California, San
Diego, think tank. That represents 1.5 percent of Mexico's gross domestic
product, or the equivalent to what Mexico receives from foreign tourism. It
comes close to matching the value added by the entire maquilladora industry in
Mexico, the study by demographer Fernando Lozano estimated.

Just before the new year, those economic ties were evident throughout
Michoacan's agricultural regions. In small towns, the streets were lined with
cars bearing California and Texas license plates. Children ran around with
confetti in their hair from a year's worth of celebrations crowded into the
single month when everyone was home. In Zamora, money-changing shops had lines
out the door as migrants rushed to change dollars for piles of pesos that
suddenly had grown because of the devaluation.

The village of Gomez Farias has even set aside a special day to honor
townspeople living north of the border. On Jan. 8, townspeople held the final
event in two months of celebrations: a religious procession of all those headed
back to the United States, complete with music and a special blessing for the
departing cars.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information end of article

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Map;
MAP: NEW YORK TIMES
Mexico
950123 BM 4D 2
PHOTO: MICHELLE LEVANDER -- MERCURY NEWS
Dolores Serrano Ramos builds a nativity scene in the courtyard of her parents
home.
950123 BM 4D 1
PHOTO: MICHELLE LEVANDER -- MERCURY NEWS
In the winter months in Pastor Ortiz, migrant workers can spend more time with
families.
950123 BM 1D 3; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 28, 1995 Saturday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

PROP. 187 TURNS OUT HISPANIC VOTERS REGISTRAR CITES ENORMOUS INCREASE

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 547 words


Mirroring a similar trend statewide, 49 percent more foreign-born Hispanics
voted in Santa Clara County during the November 1994 election than voted four
years earlier, the voter registrar's office said Friday.

The jump in Hispanic voter participation is attributed, at least in part, to
Proposition 187, the successful initiative that denies services to undocumented
immigrants.

"187 really awakened us," said Darlene Marquez, chairwoman of the Voting Rights
Coalition of Santa Clara County, a group that works to get out the vote in
minority communities. "We are now awake to the reality that we are being
discriminated against. It's blatant. Latino voters know that we have to take the
reins in our hands and empower ourselves."

A needed push

The number of Hispanic voters has risen steadily nationwide since the mid-
1970s, but 187 gave many a needed push to get out to the polls, said Antonio
Gonzalez, president of the Southwest Voter Research Institute.

The non-profit, Southern California-based institute released a study last month
showing that record numbers of California Hispanics -- 979,469 -- voted in
November's election. The numbers, which were obtained using a sample of 46
precincts throughout California, have been challenged by some who feel the
sample was too small to make such claims.

Tally of foreign-born

But an analysis of Santa Clara County voters has shown a similar pattern.

Because the county voter registrar's office does not track ethnicity, the number
of foreign-born voters was the closest measure available of local Hispanic
turnout.

The voter registrar's office -- looking at the estimated 22,000 foreign- born
Hispanics who are naturalized citizens in Santa Clara County -- found that 7,126
voted in 1994, a figure 2,334 above the total that voted in 1990. Overall voter
turnout increased by only 8 percent from 1990 to 1994.

The two years were compared because there were congressional, but not
presidential, elections.

Elma Rosas Martinez, bilingual program coordinator for the registrar of voters,
attributes part of the increase in Hispanic voters to the bilingual pamphlets --
which were distributed to all voters in 1994.

"Our goal is to make (minorities) feel comfortable with the election process,"
Rosas Martinez said. "We let them know that they are important."

Rosas Martinez said the heightened media coverage of 187 and voter registration
cards distributed by the Mercury News and other newspapers also helped to
mobilize Hispanics in the South Bay.

Whether Hispanics can continue to increase their political presence in
California is a question that will have to wait to be answered in 1996.

But voting rights advocates say Proposition 187 has changed how Hispanics view
voting.

"Many of us knew that this proposition would affect us and our children
directly," said Socorro McCord, who registered Hispanic voters through the
Catholic Diocese of San Jose. "Suddenly, people realized that it was their
responsibility as parents and citizens to vote."

In 1996, McCord and others expect the numbers of Hispanics at the polls to boom
-- with many who applied for amnesty through the 1986 immigration act becoming
eligible for citizenship.

"The turnout in 1996 should be phenomenal," Gonzalez said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter edition ran in the Morning Final Edition.

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: Source: SANTA CLARA COUNTY REGISTRAR'S OFFICE
HISPANIC VOTING RATE
While the overall turnout was the same in both elections in Santa Clara County,
the turnout among foreign-born Hispanics -- as a percentage of those registered
-- went up 8 percent between 1990 and 1994. Some say Prop. 187 and increased
outreach to minorities were the reasons.
... 1990 1994
All registered voters 59% 59%
Natives of Spanish-speaking countries 46% 54%

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 4, 1995 Saturday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

MTN. VIEW POLICE IDENTIFY SUSPECT IN FATAL HIT-AND-RUN

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 442 words


Mountain View police late Friday were searching for a 38-year-old man they
believe is the driver of a car that killed 9-year-old Jenique Sioxson as she
skated near her house.

Lt. Steve Gray said two officers were working full time to try to find Apolonio
Guerra, the Menlo Park man identified as the driver who left his car and ran
away from the crash scene Wednesday night. An arrest warrant for the suspect was
obtained Friday night.

The police department has given Guerra's name to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Border Patrol because he is a Mexican national
who used a bogus resident alien card, Gray said.

Investigators identified Guerra in part because he left his wallet in the Dodge
Omni he abandoned, which belongs to a co-worker at New Orient Restaurant on Old
Middlefield Way in Mountain View.

Guerra, who has a valid license, was making a delivery for the restaurant when
he allegedly struck Jenique, Gray said.

Friends and acquaintances of the Theuerkauf School fourth-grader paid tribute
Friday afternoon at the corner where Jenique was struck while skating toward her
father Julian. She was being followed by her 12-year-old brother, Michael. The
children, wearing in-line skates, had accompanied their father on a jog.

Bouquets of fresh mums, carnations and roses were placed on a patch of ivy
outside a building at West Middlefield Road and San Pierre Way, where Jenique
was struck.

Two short notes were attached to the flowers:

"Jenique: We never knew you, but hope you walk with the angels. To her parents:
We will not forget your daughter, love two local neighbors."

The other read: "An angel returned to God from this corner on Feb. 2, 1995, our
condolences to her family."

Jenique's aunt, Xerry Sioxson Hoge, dropped by the makeshift shrine to leave a
flier announcing a children's vigil service to be held at the corner at 5 p.m.
Monday.

She sobbed as she spoke about Jenique just a few feet from where the girl was
struck and tossed into the air. Sioxson Hoge said it has been extremely
difficult for her family to deal with the death. "(The driver) knocked my little
girl from one crosswalk to the other," Sioxson Hoge said. "He didn't give her a
chance."
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

A trust fund has been established for the family of Jenique Sioxson by Mountain
View Professional Firefighters Union, Local 1965 and the Mountain View Fire
Department. Contributions to the Jenique Sioxson Trust can be sent to Bank of
America, 444 Castro St., Suite 100, Mountain View, Calif., 94041. The account
number is: 0144204666. Contributions can also be made at any branch of Bank of
America.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LUCI S. WILLIAMS -- MERCURY NEWS
Xerry Sioxson Hoge and Brent Hoge visit the site of niece Jenique's death to
announce a vigil.
950204 LO 1B P 1

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 28, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EMPLOYERS PLUG IN TO INSTANT INS STATUS CHECK BUT SYSTEM IS THREAT TO RIGHTS,
CRITICS SAY

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1281 words

DATELINE: Washington


Smaller than a breadbox, it sits on a cluttered desk, emitting electronic beeps,
flashing digitized numbers and spitting out a perforated paper that, critics
charge, is Big Brother's latest calling card.

The minicomputer links an employer's hiring office with Immigration and
Naturalization Service data. It enables an employer for the first time to
instantly determine whether employees are in the country legally by matching
their identification with federal records.

The machine's printout -- churned out like a credit card receipt -- spells the
difference between a paycheck and a pink slip. While immigration advocates warn
that the system imperils civil liberties, field reviews from the government's
first national test run are more positive: It works, employers report.

"It's absolutely wonderful," said Nancy Smith, payroll administrator at Boran
Craig Barber Construction Co. in Naples, Fla. "I can't imagine how many illegal
people would be working here if we couldn't check out the ID, because the
counterfeiting out there is just getting very sophisticated."

Now in place in nine businesses across the country, including a restaurant chain
based in Huntington Park, the embryonic system is being extended to 200
companies in Los Angeles this year. President Clinton wants to have 1,000 work
sites nationwide plugged in to the test program by next year, calling the
project a tempered defense against illegal immigrants who seek jobs for which
they are not eligible.

For employers, the INS says the program's chief selling points are time and
money.

The conventional system to check employees' legal status involves mailing ID
information to a government office, which conducts a manual review of the
applicant's immigration file. That could take two weeks. The computerized system
works within minutes, sparing employers from spending money for ineligible
workers' salary and training -- while ensuring their business is in compliance
with the law.

In its first phase of operation, the INS said, the system identified 236
unauthorized workers, while verifying 2,220 non-citizens as eligible to work.
For civil libertarians and pro-immigration advocates, the pilot project is the
latest flash point in the United States' immigration debate -- a step, they say,
toward widespread discrimination and a national identification card. As
computerized verification is expanded, they argue, those who look or sound like
immigrants will be more likely to undergo electronic screening.

"This is more than just the camel's nose under the tent," said Cecilia Munoz of
the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights organization. "This is
the prototype for a nationwide system which would include data not just on
non-citizens, but on citizens as well. It's going to be in every workplace in
the country."

Boost from reform panel

Nevertheless, the verification approach got an important boost in the fall when
the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, led by former Rep. Barbara Jordan of
Texas, called for work toward a national computerized registry that would use
INS and Social Security Administration data to keep illegal immigrants off U.S.
payrolls.

After an initial lukewarm reception, Clinton embraced the report in his State of
the Union address this year, joining Republicans in elevating immigration
reform's place on the national agenda.

For the companies that have been testing the verification system for more than a
year, there is broad enthusiasm for what many see as rare evidence of
common-sense government. And there is wonderment that controversy is brewing.
"What it does is just help us tell what's real and what's not real," Smith said.
"We're not policemen."

"In my opinion, this country has invited everybody in the world to take
advantage of it by all their give-away programs," she said. "It's like, 'Come
here and we'll take care of you.' I think everybody should be accounted for."
Here's how the pilot system is supposed to work:

The employer punches in a password, the employee's name, date of birth and
immigrant identification number. Within minutes, the machine produces its
verdict: "Employment authorized," or "Institute secondary verification," which
means the data did not match INS records. In that case, a form must be mailed to
an INS field office, where a more detailed manual review takes place.

"It's that simple," Shirley Milton, a senior recruiter for Ogden Services, a
custodial and security contractor in Arlington, Va., said after demonstrating
the system.

"I don't think it's any different than if you went somewhere and they punched in
your Social Security number," as is done when people apply for loans, she said.

According to INS regulations, employers are allowed to tap into the data system
only after they have hired the person, and only if the employee identified
himself or herself on a job-application form as a non-U.S. citizen. Screening
edict criticized

Employers are not supposed to use it to screen potential employees -- an edict
critics say is routinely ignored.

Roger Manuel, human resources manager for a Houston engineering and construction
company, said the system helped identify illegal workers who were hired after
presenting what looked to be authentic work papers. Still, he believes tougher
border controls and workplace inspections are more effective ways to stop
illegal immigration.

"It's worked very well. But as a taxpayer and as an individual I would much
rather see us spend the money to enforce the current immigration laws on the
books," Manuel said. "What good will it do us to identify another 10,000
(illegal workers), because they just go down the street and work for someone
else."

Rick Swartz, a Washington lawyer who advises several pro-immigration interests,
said an expanded system's chief achievement will be to drive further underground
the hiring of illegal workers.

Disreputable employers, he said, will thwart the system's effectiveness by
simply not using it.

Swartz said the only way the system can be fortified is by requiring everyone to
prove their eligibility to work, and that would entail a national identification
card, which the INS insists won't happen.

ID card questioned

"If there's no card, how does the employer know that the person standing in
front of them belongs to the Social Security number he presents?" Swartz asks.
The National Council of La Raza said the INS data bank is often so incomplete
and unreliable that it discourages employers from even attempting to hire
minorities.

"Lots of times when they hire Asians or Latinos, the damn data is not in the
data base and so they think these people are difficult to hire," Munoz said.
"You don't have to check U.S. citizens. You only have to check people who are
not citizens and that makes them more of a pain in the neck to hire."

But INS Commissioner Doris Meissner last week hailed the pilot verification
system as "feasible, workable and user-efficient."

"It verified that 2,200 alien workers were eligible to work, allowing them to
earn a living while allaying employers' fears about non-compliance with the
law," Meissner said.

Republicans in Congress have pledged to produce an immigration bill that
toughens work-site verification procedures by springtime.

"If we're going to control our borders we have to have some method of keeping
illegal immigrants out of the workplace," said Jim Dorcy, director of special
projects for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "And as far as Big
Brother government goes, we surrender more rights in this country applying for
credit or getting a home loan than this will ever come to."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 28, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BEYOND BIAS A NEW BOOK TRIES TO ANSWER QUESTIONS THAT PERPLEX PROFESSIONALS WHO
WORK WITH RURAL MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: LORI EICKMANN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1568 words


ANNYE Rothenberg admits that, until recently, she wasn't, well . . . open-
minded.

"If I was in a store and the salespeople were speaking Spanish, I was one of
those people who might say, 'We're in America, why can't I get anyone to wait on
me in English?' " Rothenberg, 54, says with a sheepish smile.

But that was before the nationally known parent-education authority and head of
the Child Rearing Program at the Children's Health Council in Palo Alto wrote
"Understanding and Working with Parents and Children from Rural Mexico," a book
designed to help local teachers, doctors, social workers and others in their
work with rural Mexican immigrants.

Summarizing all she hopes her book will accomplish, Rothenberg points out: "It's
hard to be prejudiced when you understand."

The book, published this month with a grant from the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation's Center for the Future of Children, aims to pave the way for better
services for families who make up the bulk of California's ever- expanding
Hispanic population. The book is described as bold, innovative, invaluable and
controversial by some who played important roles in its creation -- 27 Bay Area
Hispanic professionals whose personal views are tapped to explain family life,
education, health care, values and stereotypes as experienced by rural Mexican
families, whether in isolated ranchitos in Michoacan or in sprawling San Jose
apartment complexes.

"I'm very pleased with the book," says Dolores Ramirez, multicultural program
director for the Mid-Peninsula YWCA in Palo Alto and one of the professionals
quoted. "Service providers need to understand the population to better do their
job. I think the book will help."

"The book is a noble effort; it's also a controversial effort," says Gil
Villagran, a San Jose child welfare social worker and coordinator of Nuestra
Casa Youth Project quoted in the book. "When I was approached to become
involved, I was a little cautious," says Villagran, a native of Mexico. "Our
goal is to get Latinos to work with Latinos. We need to get (people of) all
cultures into the universities to be trained in these professions.

"But, there are not enough Latino psychologists, public health nurses and so
on," Villagran says. "So, for now, Annye's book bridges that gap."

Rothenberg and the local Hispanic professionals say understanding is crucial
because Mexican immigrants are the state's single largest minority group.
Thirty-seven percent of California public schoolchildren are Hispanic -- most of
them are Mexican.

Rothenberg, who holds a Ph.D. in child development works as a child/parent
counselor. She said she first realized a need to provide better services to the
area's immigrants several years ago when she began training pediatric residents
at Stanford University Medical School in understanding parent-child
relationships. The doctors -- the vast majority of whose patients are Hispanic
-- bombarded Rothenberg with questions about the parents' behavior.

No questions

"They'd say, 'Why is it that when we tell the parents to feed the babies only
formula, they say they will, and then they pull out a bottle with herbal tea in
it? Why don't they ever have any questions?' " Rothenberg recalls. "I'd say, 'I
don't know.' "

When Rothenberg began training parent educators, nurses and child-care providers
to work with parents, she heard more of the same: Why are the children not used
to talking with grown-ups? Why is separation (from the parents) so hard? Why do
the parents spank their kids?

"I got to the point where I said I can't teach these professionals anymore
unless I can address these questions," Rothenberg says.

In their own words

Rothenberg set out to interview local Hispanic professionals with the idea of
presenting workshops based on the information obtained. After hearing their
views, she decided to write a book using their words, which paint a picture of
poverty, discrimination, determination and close ties to family and country:

"Most people coming from Mexico are from ranchitos. These are very isolated
dwellings with no electricity, no running water and no paved roads. The shock of
moving to our urban areas is very great for them." -- Amalia DeBord, clinical
social worker at Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford.

"(Latino values include) caring about the family, the extended family and
friends; a spirit of cooperation and loyalty rather than individualism and
competitiveness." -- Maria Reyes, social worker at Santa Clara County Social
Services Agency in San Jose.

"With lower-income people who come from Mexico, I see a sense of shame about
their culture. Mexicans feel Americans have a very negative image of them. When
the dominant group looks down on you, the common coping mechanism is to become
less like your group and more like the dominant group. This makes you weaker."
-- Ana Morante, outpatient case worker with Chamberlin Mental Health Services in
Gilroy.

Local teachers and health workers who have read the book praise it for answering
some whys: Rural Mexican parents may not ask doctors questions because they view
doctors as authority figures that should be shown respect; the children may have
a hard time talking to adults because they are used to being "seen and not
heard;" the parents may punish children physically because strict obedience --
not U.S.-brand independence -- is valued.

Renee Robertson could have benefited from such a book when she began teaching 15
years ago. Robertson, a fourth-grade bilingual-education teacher at Grant
Elementary School in San Jose, says the book points out something she gradually
learned on her own: how much her students love their homeland.

"We need to work with that," she explains. "Ask them to talk about it, write
about it and make books about it. Make it an education tool. The idea is to have
a curriculum that's child-centered -- so you have to know the child."

Medical professionals also have found the book helpful. Julie Chen, a third-year
pediatric resident at Packard Children's Hospital, says she never understood why
Hispanic fathers sometimes decline to come to their children's births or, if
they do come, show little emotion.

"Machismo plays a role in this," Chen says.

Tricia Craig, a clinical case manager at Fair Oaks Family Health Center in
Redwood City, also says the book touches on issues that she deals with daily,
such as why some mothers fail to plan ahead to get prescriptions refilled before
running out of medication. It's a situation that can endanger a sick child.

Today's stereotypes

But in rural Mexico, "today is today and tomorrow is tomorrow. There, you don't
plan ahead," says Craig. "They just don't understand the importance."

If such statements smack of stereotyping, those involved in creating
"Understanding" agree they run the risk of perpetuating harmful stereotypes.
They stress that the book does not attempt to define all Hispanics or all
Mexicans, but rather is a generalized overview of a specific culture.

"Someone reading one book or going to one class does not an expert make,"
cautions Villagran. "You'll learn something from the book, but remember that
every family is different."

Rafael Diaz, an associate professor of education at Stanford University quoted
in the book, says some stereotypes may be based in fact -- and it is up to the
Hispanic community to change any harmful beliefs or traditions.

For example, "the rigidity of gender roles is a very big problem in our culture
that needs to change," says Diaz, a native of Cuba. "But, it's easier to
denounce it from within."

Ramirez says the YWCA has a leadership training program, "Familia Hispana
Unida," designed to teach Mexican immigrants how to help each other learn new
parenting skills, navigate the school system and assimilate into American
culture without forgetting their heritage.

"We're trying to build a community that's self-sufficient," Ramirez says.

Still, most involved with the book agree its strengths outweigh any possible
misuse by those intent on perpetuating negative stereotypes. Perhaps the book's
most valuable lesson is in showing why some Mexicans leave their homeland to
begin life anew in a foreign country.

"Immigrants don't come here because they hate their country," Villagran says.
"They come here to get away from poverty, from inhumane treatment, from
dictatorships. They come for a better life -- just like all immigrants who have
ever come to this county."

Both immigrants and longtime residents can benefit from understanding one
another, says Rothenberg -- a woman who admits she used to find Mexican music
blaring from passing cars an infringement on her rights, but now appreciates the
music as an integral part of a culture that's filled with "emotion and music and
love of family."

"There is so much diversity here, people should take advantage of the
opportunity to learn the ways of others," Rothenberg concludes. "We are
neighbors or colleagues . . . and we don't know each other."
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To order "Understanding and Working with Parents and Children from Rural
Mexico," send $22.50 plus $2.50 for shipping and handling (California residents
add $1.85 sales tax) to CHC Center for Child & Family Development Press, P.O.
Box 7326, Menlo Park, Calif., 94026. Information is available by calling a
recording at (415) 326-5575.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Spaces are available to participate in "Famila Hispana Unida," leadership
training for Spanish-speaking Latinos in Santa Clara County. The next session
begins March 15. Meetings will be each Wednesday from 6:30-9 p.m. at YWCA's
Community Services Agency, 204 Stierlin Road in Mountain View. The fee is $95
(sliding scale available for financial aid). Enrollment is limited. Child care
is not available. To register, call Dolores Ramirez at (415) 494-0972.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Annye Rothenberg, director of the Child Rearing Program at Children's Health
Council in Palo Alto.
950228 LI 1D 1; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 14, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE LEADERS LOBBYING IN WASHINGTON

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


State lawmakers this week are in Washington, D.C., seeking money and other
favors from Congress and federal bureaucrats.

That means activity in the state Capitol will be nearly non-existent. The
Assembly is convening only on Thursday. Few committees are meeting.

The delegation of 28 Assembly members and 12 senators plans a busy schedule of
meetings that began Monday and end Wednesday.

Top-level briefings

They will be briefed by high-level Clinton administration officials from nearly
every department. Those scheduled include Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner, Defense Secretary William Perry, Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala and Federal Emergency Management Agency
Director James Lee Witt.

They also will be addressed by several members of California's congressional
delegation and will meet with Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole.

The purpose of the annual trek is to lobby Congress and federal officials for
money, law changes and favorable rulings for California.

"These trips are important," said state Senate GOP Leader Ken Maddy of Fresno.
"Certainly the access we have to federal administration officials, as well as
leaders of Congress, is important to the state of California.

"We have always had this trip. I think it's paid off in many ways."

Immigration, gambling

Some of the main issues this year are funding for the costs of illegal
immigrants, a dispute over medical payments for the poor, gambling on Indian
reservations and the proposed transfer of the federal Central Valley Project
irrigation system to the state.

The legislative leaders realize it will be difficult this year to get money from
a Republican-led Congress intent on cuts.

"It's not going to be easy," said Senate President Pro Tem Bill Lockyer,
D-Hayward. "It was not easy with the previous Congress. It won't be easy to get
this Congress to write checks for California's needs."

Footing travel bill

The air fare and lodging costs for the delegation will generally be paid by the
Legislature. Lockyer said some special interest groups will also be providing "a
couple of meals."

The Legislature's top four leaders -- Lockyer, Maddy, Assembly Speaker Willie
Brown and Assembly GOP Leader Jim Brulte -- are all going. The delegation also
includes nine Senate and 10 Assembly committee chairs.

The few committee hearings in Sacramento this week include the first look at the
public school budget by the Senate's education budget subcommittee on Wednesday
and an Assembly Judiciary Committee hearing the same day on the "litigation
explosion."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 17, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

END OF A DREAM U.N. TELLS BOAT PEOPLE TO GIVE UP HOPE OF ASYLUM DECISION AFFECTS
50,000 INDOCHINESE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1151 words

DATELINE: Geneva


Signaling the end of a 20-year saga of exodus spawned by war, the United Nations
said Thursday that 50,000 Vietnamese and Laotian boat people would have to
forget their dreams of asylum in the West and return home.

Sadako Ogata, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, told an international
conference on Indochinese refugees that migrants should not expect to be granted
asylum after being denied refugee status and rejected for resettlement in
Western countries.

"To those who still linger in the camps in the false hope of being resettled, I
wish to say to them again: Do not lose any more time; seize your opportunity now
and return home as quickly as possible to take advantage of international
assistance while it still lasts," Ogata said.

A joint declaration by 30 major member states said, "There is no option for
these people other than repatriation."

The United States broke ranks over the fate of about 8,000 Laotian migrants,
saying they were true refugees who retained the right to resettle abroad. The
Clinton administration said it was prepared to consider letting some immigrate
to the United States.

The announcement came the same day that 272 Vietnamese were dragged from a
Philippine detention camp, ending a standoff in which many had threatened to
kill themselves rather than return to their homeland.

Self-inflicted wounds

Witnesses at the camp in Morong, about 50 miles east of Manila, said they saw at
least three men and an elderly woman bleeding from self-inflicted wounds to
their hands or stomachs after they scrambled to the rooftops of their barracks
and threatened suicide.

With fire trucks spraying them with water, the Vietnamese were dragged from the
roofs by police officers carrying truncheons and crowbars.

Although the Philippine government succeeded in uprooting the refugees from the
camp, it may face the same sort of violent protest if it moves to the next step
-- forcing them onto planes or boats bound for their home.

The Vietnamese are being transported by bus and boat to a larger camp on the
southern Philippine island of Palawan, which is expected to be their final stop
before they are returned to Vietnam under an agreement between Manila and Hanoi.

The disturbing scene Thursday at the Morong camp could be repeated across
Southeast Asia over the next several months as governments prepare to shut camps
that now hold more than 46,000 Vietnamese and to force the occupants home.
Almost half of the Vietnamese are detained in camps in Hong Kong.

Most of the Vietnamese who were removed Thursday from the Morong camp had
traveled to the Philippines -- some up to eight years ago -- under a U.S.
program that offered citizenship to the Amerasian children of American soldiers
and their Vietnamese families. After arriving in the Philippines, they were
dropped from the program because of allegations by U.S. immigration officers
that the Vietnamese had falsified documents.

In preparation for their forced removal Thursday, the Philippine government sent
about 400 police officers to the camp Wednesday.

After daylong negotiations Wednesday with the Vietnamese, the Philippine
commander of the camp said he would delay their departure to Palawan for another
week. But police officials said the extension was canceled by the Department of
Interior in Manila and that police were ordered to evict the Vietnamese on
Thursday.

As ambulances and firetrucks surrounded them, Vietnamese women and children who
had huddled on the roof of a two-story barracks wailed.

"We have been very kind to you, and you are embarrassing us by what you are
doing," Lt. Col. Elnora Bernardino told them. "Do not force us to come and get
you."

The U.N.-financed camp formally closed Dec. 31, and water and electricity were
shut off to the Vietnamese who remained. They have survived since then on
handouts from local farmers.

Plans to close announced

In February, Southeast Asian governments announced final plans to close the
camps that have housed the more than 800,000 Vietnamese who fled their homeland
after 1975. The closings mean that the 46,000 Vietnamese left in the camps today
-- those who have been unable to find third countries willing to accept them --
will soon be compelled to return to Vietnam.

Forcing them home will be an ugly, possibly dangerous business, as tens of
thousands of people are pushed or dragged onto planes headed for Vietnam, which
many of them had hoped never to see again.

As the clock ticks down, violent outbursts are becoming common in the camps. In
Indonesia last June, two Vietnamese boat people set themselves on fire and died
in a protest over plans for their forced return to Vietnam.

Hundreds of Vietnamese in camps in Hong Kong have announced suicide pacts, and
more than 200 were injured last April in a clash with the Hong Kong police after
refusing to move to another camp in preparation for their forced return to
Vietnam. There have been scores of cases of self-mutilation by Vietnamese who
have insisted they would rather die than return home.

'Attracting attention'

"Many of these incidents were carried out more with a view toward attracting
attention than causing real harm," said Jahanshah Assadi, director of the Hong
Kong mission of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. "But we've had attempts
at hanging, attempts at self-immolation, people taking a knife or sharp-edged
instrument and puncturing their arms, legs, stomachs."

If forced back, many Vietnamese will return to a country different from the one
they left years ago. Vietnam has abandoned Marxist economics and embraced the
free market. The economy is booming, with job opportunities unimaginable in the
1980s.

Vietnam remains an authoritarian country that imprisons political dissidents.
But U.N. investigators who visited there say they found no credible evidence
that any of the 68,000 asylum-seekers who have already returned home had faced
harassment from the government. The Hanoi government has vowed to treat the
returning Vietnamese humanely.

While Vietnam's economic boom and the assurances of the United Nations should
give comfort to those Vietnamese still held in the detention camps, many are
still terrified about what they will confront if they return home.

When the boat people began pouring out of Vietnam after communist forces toppled
the U.S.-backed government of South Vietnam in April 1975, they were met with
sympathy, especially from the United States, which took in more than 1 million
Vietnamese over the last 20 years.

But the West's sympathy has run out. Virtually all of the Vietnamese who have
made it to Hong Kong and other Southeast Asian way stations in the 1990s have
been labeled economic migrants -- not refugees, a label that requires
substantiated proof of fear of persecution in Vietnam -- and were refused
entrance to the United States and other countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Vet returns to Vietnam as the peaceful American. PAGE 25A

GRAPHIC: Diagram, Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A Vietnamese woman cries out from the roof of a bunkhouse at a Philippine
detention camp -- where more than 200 Vietnamese have spent years seeking asylum
in the West -- as police end a standoff in which many Vietnamese threatened to
kill themselves.
950317 FR 1A 2; color
DIAGRAM: NEW YORK TIMES
Source: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
Vietnamese asylum-seekers detained in Asia (as of Dec. 1994)
950317 FR 26A 1

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 27, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAKING THE PLUNGE FEARING OSTRACISM, MORE IMMIGRANTS SEEK CITIZENSHIP

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 308 words


A green card isn't enough any more; there's a rush on for U.S. citizenship.
Legal resident aliens who had been willing to live without the right to vote
apparently are unwilling to live with social and economic ostracism, which they
fear will result from the latest wave of anti-immigrant sentiment in America.
Last year 192,188 Californians applied to become citizens, double the usual
number. That reflects a nationwide boom, as Mercury News writer Jeordan Legon
reported Thursday: Applications were up 25 percent over 1993, and are soaring.

Immigration always has been an ambiguous adventure. Some immigrants never look
back; others are determined eventually to return home. Most vacillate somewhere
in between, even while putting down new roots.

But these days, a choice is being forced. Members of Congress have floated
proposals to exclude legal immigrants from welfare and other benefits.
Proposition 187 reflects an increasingly bold anti-immigrant sentiment. People
who once felt comfortable as legal residents increasingly believe they need
citizenship to feel secure.

This movement may increase voter registration and turnout, which have been
historically low in Hispanic and Asian communities. But it may not produce
legions of liberal voters, as voting-rights advocates hope. Some immigrant
groups have a distinctly conservative bent, even when it comes to immigration.
Recent arrivals often are just as anxious to shut the door behind them as are
Americans whose families arrived generations ago.

Regardless of how that turns out, an increase in the number of citizens is
welcome news. Citizenship conveys a sense of belonging and commitment. It gives
immigrants more of a stake in the future of their new country and their
community, and that's bound to have long-term benefits that go beyond the
turnout at the polls.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 30, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BIG DREAMS MEET THE BIG APPLE PETE WILSON'S PRESIDENTIAL ROAD SHOW IS GIVEN A
TEPID RECEPTION IN NEW YORK

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 879 words

DATELINE: New York


LIKE a play not quite ready for Broadway, Pete Wilson's lonesome presidential
troupe marched into the planet's media capital Wednesday as the California
governor rehearsed the tough-talk lines of his budding national campaign.

Standing almost within sight of Lady Liberty's torch, Wilson defended his
crusade against illegal immigration and his plans to dismantle affirmative
action programs he once supported.

"(Proposition) 187 was not about race at all," Wilson said during an appearance
with Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. "And it was certainly not anti- immigration.

"With all respect, I would have to say to anybody who tries to lecture
Californians about racism or about anti-immigrant sentiment (that) we are a
state -- more than any other I suspect -- that has been built with the courage
and the sweat of immigrants."

Wilson's breakfast meeting with Giuliani was genial but yielded no endorsement
from the GOP mayor, whose track record for picking political winners is hardly
stellar.

Giuliani last year ignited a firestorm among Republicans when he endorsed
Democrat Mario Cuomo, the state's longtime governor, who lost his job to George
Pataki.

Pataki, Sen. Alphonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., and most of the state's GOP establishment
already have lined up in support of Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas.
And they have vowed to make it difficult for Wilson to even get on the
Republican primary ballot -- an arcane process that will require him to get
1,250 valid signatures of Republican voters in each of the state's 31
congressional districts.

"I think that is terribly undemocratic," Wilson said when asked about the
roadblocks Dole supporters will erect for him. "I'm shocked that they would do
anything like that. We're going to get on the ballot."

Emblematic of Wilson's difficulties here is the fact that the father of his
communications director, Leslie Goodman, is a state senator who is an avowed
Dole backer.

GIULIANI, who said he probably won't endorse any contender for the 1996
Republican presidential nomination until this summer, opposes Proposition 187's
edicts to deny most public benefits to illegal immigrants.

And, while he did not say so explicitly, New York's mayor disagrees with
Wilson's unqualified support for a proposed ballot measure in California that
would prohibit any form of affirmative action preference based on race, sex,
ethnicity or national origin for state hiring, contracts and education.

"I certainly support programs that give more opportunity, programs that give
more education, more help if there's been a group or groups that have been
excluded based on discrimination," Giuliani said at a City Hall press conference
with Wilson at his side.

But as he has done in every appearance since he began his East Coast
campaign-style swing Saturday, Wilson, who once supported minority "set-
asides," equated affirmative action with reverse discrimination.

"You should not give a job or a contract or a place in a graduate school class
based upon someone's membership in a group defined by race or gender," he said.
"It ought to be done on individual merit."

Wilson, whose formal announcement is expected later this spring, is accompanied
here by only a few aides and has been greeted by no cheering supporters.

His press office in Sacramento discouraged California reporters from making the
trip East with him, arguing he would make no news. Indeed, a huge four- alarm
fish-market fire that for a time shut down the Brooklyn Bridge dominated local
newscasts just after Wilson's visit.

But as Wilson spoke Wednesday morning, his longtime campaign manager, George
Gorton, stood in the back of the City Hall room, decorated with portraits of
former New York mayors, and seemed to critique the emerging message of Wilson's
presidential campaign.

"From the reaction we're getting it's going extremely well," said Gorton, whose
first taste of national politics came in 1972 when he was a field staff director
for Richard Nixon. "I think we're moving people by our discussion of individual
responsibility and self-reliance. So far, so good."

So far that message is an appeal to American suburbanites, who Wilson says are
rightfully fed up with government handouts, unfair tax burdens, a broken welfare
system and a criminal-justice system that coddles killers.

'I THINK we have got a better story to tell than any of the other candidates,
including my friend Bob Dole, simply because we're talking about things that the
American people think need changed," Wilson said in a television appearance
earlier this week. "And again, we have not just had an agenda for change, but a
record of making it."

Later Wednesday, Wilson met in Newark with New Jersey Gov. Christine Todd
Whitman, who did not endorse him but said she shares his pro-choice philosophy.
That, she said, makes Wilson an attractive entry into the crowded GOP
presidential field.

For his part, Wilson pronounced his test run on the presidential track a
success.

"What this trip has accomplished is to allow some people who have not had the
opportunity before to see me, hear me, and to learn about why I'm seeking the
office and what I think I can do with it," Wilson said. "So far, I must say I'm
pleased by the results."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Despite joining Gov. Pete Wilson on the podium Wednesday, New York City Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani, left, is keeping mum about his endorsement for the '96
presidential race.
950330 FR 13A

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 5, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHEN VIET STUDENTS NEED HELP, THEY FIND HIM

BYLINE: THERESA C. VILORIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: EAST EXTRA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 763 words


John Tran acts more like a father than a guidance counselor to the most recent
Vietnamese immigrant students in the Milpitas Union School District, whom he
lovingly calls his children.

Tran is the bridge between the world these 700 youths knew in their country or
in a refugee camp and the new culture to which they're trying to adjust.

"Mr. Tran tries his best to help me and all Vietnamese students here," said Ha
Nguyen, a junior at Milpitas High School, who came to the United States three
months ago after spending five years in Malaysian refugee camps. "Mr. Tran is
helping me to fill out applications to look for a job. I need to find a job to
make money to help my mom."

Ha is not alone in his quest to do well in school, find friends, get a job and
help his family. Many of the 14 students in a room at Milpitas High School,
primarily young and male, are concerned about how to pay the application fees to
get into college. They worry their limited English skills contribute to their
inability to land a job, even as a newspaper carrier.

The difficulty of getting accustomed to U.S. culture can be seen in youths who
are disruptive in class and have short attention spans, Tran said.

"In Vietnam, these children were miserable. They know that they are refugees,
that they are displaced people and that they are from rural areas," he said.
"There is no good preparation for these students to attend American schools, and
as a result these children are depressed."

Andy Nguyen, 18, is a junior who ran away from his foster parents and is trying
to land a job to pay for rent at a new apartment while attempting to apply to
colleges.

"Sometimes I try to speak English, but people don't understand what I say," he
said. "It's hard to find friends in high school because they can't understand
me, but Mr. Tran understands me and tries to answer the questions I have."

Tran, a high school teacher for 30 years in Vietnam, has been the community
liaison for Vietnamese families in the district for five years. More than 1,700
Vietnamese students attend kindergarten to high school in 11 district schools.
Tran serves about 700 students in elementary and middle schools, many of whom
are not proficient in English; and about 300 high school students.

His job includes translating all documents and papers issued by the district;
counseling students; and helping coach non-English-speaking students in reading,
writing and mathematics so they can pass proficiency tests.

Refugees, POWs

Tran also counsels parents. He said almost all of the parents he talks to are
refugees or former soldiers who were imprisoned.

"When they come here, most have difficult situations, and I have to give them
motivation to stop smoking and drinking," he said. "Most are on assistance, like
Medi-Cal or welfare, and don't know what to do.

"I tell them, 'I used to be like you. Just relax, go to school,' and I help them
gain a strong belief in themselves. Then they are ready to tackle the problems
they see in their children."

Many parents complain about changes in their children's behavior, and Tran tells
them corporal punishment is not allowed in this country. "I teach them the way
to talk to their child in a way that is different than how they are used to
giving discipline."

Personal experiences

Tran, 59, remembers his own difficulties more than 12 years ago when he came to
the United States as a refugee from Vietnam. He is quick to share his
experiences and feelings.

"I did not know the language or the culture, but I had the motivation to find
out and enroll myself in education classes at San Jose State University," he
said. "When I first came here, everyone helped me in the school, community and
other services. Now I am rewarded by seeing the progress in the students and
families that I help."

Today, Tran often can be found going beyond the call of duty, talking to doctors
and nurses at local hospitals to try and help a family receive emergency
treatment. To the joy of many of his high school students, he also drives teens
to school, or to and from job interviews.

"I like children, and I believe that teaching them that education comes first is
helpful to them," he said.

"It is also important for them to know that even with becoming a professional,
one must have a good mind and a good heart," he added, with a touch to his
temple and then to his chest. "Mr. Tran has a good heart," said Binh Tian, a
senior. "I don't want to know what would have become of me and my little brother
if he was not here to help us come to school."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
John Tran is the Milpitas school district's liaison to Vietnamese kids and
parents.
950405 EA 1 1; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 8, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHINESE MIGRANT SHIP REMAINS AT SEA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 121 words


A ship carrying 107 Chinese immigrants remains in Pacific waters 400 miles
southwest of San Diego two weeks after U.S. Coast Guard officers boarded the
vessel. The U.S. State Department continues to negotiate with the Chinese
government to send the immigrants back to China, said Phyllis Young, a
spokeswoman for the State Department in Washington. The 127-foot Fang Ming is
carrying 88 passengers -- seven women and 81 men -- and 19 crew members, Young
said. The captain of the ship has said he is from Taiwan, and the others are
believed to be from Fujian province in southeast China. The U.S. Coast Guard
said all the passengers are reported to be in good health with an adequate
supply of food and fresh water.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 12, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL'S RIGHTS' RECORD CALLED 'ABYSMAL' GROUP SAYS AGENTS ABUSE THOSE
SEEKING ENTRY INTO U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: Washington


A human rights group charges that Border Patrol agents routinely abuse people
seeking to enter the United States from Mexico -- legally and illegally -- and
that the agents enjoy virtual impunity under a system that provides little
oversight.

Human Rights Watch-Americas, in a report to be issued today, cites beatings,
shootings, rapes and deaths alleged to have occurred at the hands of Border
Patrol agents. And it contends that the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
a Justice Department agency, is doing little to remedy its "abysmal human rights
record."

Justice Department official Ana Cobian said Tuesday that officials there had not
seen the report, but she said: "We do not believe that INS officers commonly
abuse legal or illegal immigrants. . . . We take every complaint very
seriously."

Third critical report

The study is the third in a series of highly critical reports of U.S.
immigration agents issued by the group, formerly known as Americas Watch. The
study, titled "Crossing the Line," was based on an investigation along the
southwestern border last July.

"The Clinton administration has abdicated its responsibility to correct the
ongoing abuse problem by failing to follow through with its pledges of reform
and by refusing to consider alternatives, such as an independent review of
Border Patrol agents," alleged Allyson Collins, a principal author of the study.

At least 3.5 million people are believed to be in the United States illegally,
with an additional 300,000 or more entering without permission each year. Border
Patrol agents made 1.3 million apprehensions last year.

INS's complaint rate

INS has long said it has only one complaint per 17,000 apprehensions, which
compares favorably to the rates of other law enforcement agencies.

Human Rights Watch is advocating creation of an independent commission that
would receive and investigate complaints against Border Patrol agents. The U.S.
Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, D-Texas,
also has urged establishment of a complaints process that could be monitored by
the public.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 16, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

BYLINE: Michelle Levander, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 2181 words


Once the U.S.-Mexico bracero program was reviled as little better than
indentured servitude. Now, though, some of the state's leading politicians,
allied with growers and even some immigrant-rights advocates, want a new program
to import Mexican laborers to work seasonally in U.S. agriculture.
The bracero program, begun in 1942 as a wartime measure, eventually shipped
close to 5 million men to this country from Mexico. Growers, who relied on the
cheap and steady supply of labor, managed to keep the bracero program alive for
22 years before it ended amid allegations of widespread abuses.
Former braceros, many of whom like (Aurelio) Vargas now live in San Jose, tell
of being rounded up like cattle and sent from one employer to the next.

BRACEROS FOR THE '90S? POLITICIANS, GROWERS PUSH FOR RETURN OF A GUEST LABOR
PROGRAM "At the beginning, they treated us well, later no. In some places they
had heaters, others no. I lived in a boxcar, in a camp with 200 in the
countryside."
-- Aurelio Vargas, 71, who worked for the railroads and picked cotton as a
bracero in the 1940s and '50s in Arkansas, Ohio and New Mexico.


Once the U.S.-Mexico bracero program was reviled as little better than
indentured servitude. Now, though, some of the state's leading politicians,
allied with growers and even some immigrant-rights advocates, want a new program
to import Mexican laborers to work seasonally in U.S. agriculture.

The bracero program, begun in 1942 as a wartime measure, eventually shipped
close to 5 million men to this country from Mexico. Growers, who relied on the
cheap and steady supply of labor, managed to keep the bracero program alive for
22 years before it ended amid allegations of widespread abuses.

Former braceros, many of whom like Vargas now live in San Jose, tell of being
rounded up like cattle and sent from one employer to the next. They took
grueling jobs repairing railroads or picking cotton. Some, despite guarantees of
free housing, slept outside in the fields. Yet if the pay or working conditions
were below U.S. legal standards, they endured. For poor Mexican villagers, it
offered jobs that, by their standards, paid extravagantly.

Growers, who fear effective border control could cut off their supply of illegal
Mexican laborers, began the talk in Washington over a new guest worker program.
Since then, the idea has been endorsed by prominent California politicians,
including Gov. Pete Wilson and Attorney General Dan Lungren. Immigration and
Naturalization Service Director Doris Meissner has stated her opposition, as
have California's two Democratic senators. Although no legislation has been
introduced, some predict it could be the next item on the nation's immigration
agenda.

Controversial solution

Its proponents argue the country is better off with some legal framework for
using Mexican laborers. And it's understandable, perhaps, that politicians are
searching for a solution, even one as controversial as a guest worker program.
Immigration laws are widely flaunted, a black market is flourishing for fake
papers, and coyotes traffic in illegal border crossings.

But advocates of a bracero solution must convince critics who point to this
country's poor track record at controlling illegal immigration. Policy makers
have been notoriously unsuccessful at designing rules that can confine a sea of
undocumented arrivals. What immigration experts have learned is that policy
rarely controls or anticipates the life plans of illegal immigrants and their
families. The history of the bracero program is just one example.

The guest worker programs in the rich nations of Western Europe and the United
States all have had one overriding flaw. All have promoted, in the long run,
more immigration, legal and otherwise. Temporary workers rarely leave.
Immigration experts now believe that the bracero program, which ended in 1964,
led to today's illegal immigration problem.

Created dependency

The program, said Phil Martin, an agricultural economist at the University of
California, Davis, ultimately created a dependency on both sides of the border.
Growers came to count on cheap foreign labor, and Mexican villagers began to
rely on jobs in the U.S.

Workers forged ties during their temporary stay that allowed them to return to
waiting jobs. Then, they helped brothers, uncles and children who arrived later
without papers. Jobs in the United States, immigration experts say, have now
become part of the basic survival strategy of millions of Mexican villagers.

In the short term, importing foreign laborers looks attractive, said INS
Director Meissner. But, she argued, temporarily contracted workers easily fall
prey to exploitation by employers who can hold a contract over their heads in
exchange for silence. And, she said, temporary workers too often stay on and
become part of an underground economy.

"We should not want workers," she said, "who are not able to enjoy the benefits
of taxes and participate in the economy."

Advocates, though, argue there is a way to make a guest worker program
successful for both workers and their employers.

The bracero program forced workers to stay with a single employer or return to
Mexico, which farm labor advocates described as a formula for abuse. Such
exploitation can be avoided, advocates say, by giving workers the freedom to
change employers and by giving them all the legal rights of U.S. workers. They
argue illegal immigration can be prevented by holding a portion of guest
workers' earnings at the U.S. embassy in Mexico, only to be redeemed upon their
return.

Might reduce abuses

Backers argue that it's time to acknowledge that some U.S. industries rely on
undocumented workers. If the workers have a way to come here legally for
seasonal jobs, they contend, it might reduce abuses and curb illegal
immigration.

"We have to wake up and recognize we've relied on foreign workers for
generations," said Roy Gabriel of the California Farm Bureau, which represents
70,000 growers. "Let's create a mechanism so when they are here, they are
treated properly."

"I believe strongly in employer sanctions," Attorney General Lungren said of his
proposal for a guest worker program. But, he added, "if we really crack down on
employers, we'll have a lack of workers in certain industries. I'm trying to be
a realist.

It's an argument that even some of the conservative Lungren's traditional
political opponents on immigration find appealing.

"I am absolutely certain that there are thousands working in the fields with
false green cards," said attorney Richard Hobbs, director of the immigration
program at Catholic Charities in San Jose. "Giving people the dignity of legal
status makes everyone feel better, the employer and the employee. It takes the
fear and fraud out of the process."

Don Villarejo, director of the California Institute for Rural Studies in Davis,
adds, "What are the alternatives? What will address the fact that here are all
these people who are not authorized to work? It's a serious problem that's being
played out in anti-immigrant hysteria."

The opposition

But many disagree.

"On the one hand," said Sen. Barbara Boxer, "they say Proposition 187 is
necessary to keep out the foreign workers and the next minute they want to bring
them in. The (last) guest worker program started all our problems with illegal
immigration. 'Come on in, we need a little slave labor,' and the word got to
Mexico."

"The most peculiar part about this proposal is that a guest worker program is
not about controlling illegal immigration," said Howard Rosenberg, an
agricultural labor-management specialist at the University of California,
Berkeley. "The purpose of a guest worker program is to increase the labor
supply."

There are no easy answers in this debate. There will always be Mexican workers
willing to leave family and home to earn at least 10 times their domestic wage.
The question remains: Is a labor program the way to solve a border problem?

Mixed review

Among former braceros themselves, the prospect of another guest worker program
gets a mixed review.

During a card game with other former braceros at the East Side Community Center,
Domingo Najar, 69, says another guest worker program is a great idea. Yet his
story illustrates how easy it is for guests to overstay their sanctioned
welcome.

The men, now all permanent residents in their late 60s and 70s, stand out
because of their weathered faces and hands. Decades after they left their
homeland, they still wear the sombreros favored by Mexican campesinos.

"Without papers, you are living in fear that the 'migra' will grab you and throw
you back to Mexico," Najar said, speaking in his native Spanish. "To live as a
wetback isn't a life. You can't plan on anything."

Najar should know. His experience as a guest tempted him to return. He came back
as an undocumented worker and for years worked days in a tortilla factory and
nights in a shop. He had 11 children. In 1986, both he and his wife gained
permanent residency under the Immigration Reform and Control Act's amnesty
program.

Silberio Garcia, 74, still becomes angry when reminded of the program's
restrictions. "You couldn't leave. You were enslaved to a job. They had you in
camps, very well counted. If there was a chance for a good job, you couldn't
take it."

Julio Rios, too, started out in the United States as a bracero. But when his
contract ended, he would just hop over to the next ranch and look for work.
Later, he moved to the cities and disguised himself as a pachuco, a Chicano
tough. The police would hassle you for it, he remembered, but never dreamt he
was there illegally.

Repeat situation?

Rios doesn't distinguish between the time he worked as a bracero and when he
worked illegally. Immigrant advocates like Luis Magana, of the Organizacion de
Trabajadores Agriculos de California, believe the same will be true if a guest
worker program is revived today. "It could be an extra door through which people
can enter the United States," Magana said.

"There is nothing better than a temporary worker program if it works," said
Martin. "The question always is at what point do 'them' become one of us? At one
point they do become part of your country?"

The talk of a new guest worker program comes at a time when growers already have
a glut of farm laborers. Their industry is still reaping the benefits of
unsuccessful attempts to control illegal immigration.

Foreign labor

Immigration policy, starting with the bracero program, has reshaped state
agriculture into an industry that survives almost entirely on the labor of
foreign workers. Today an estimated 20 percent to 50 percent of California field
laborers are undocumented. Those who have legal status often obtained papers
through an amnesty program offered under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control
Act. According to one federal report, nine out of 10 seasonal farm workers in
California are foreign-born.

Farm workers who gained legal status under 1986 reforms now compete for jobs
with thousands of undocumented workers. That's because the reforms legalized
existing aliens but failed to deliver on the promise of employer sanctions to
stop more illegal immigration.

The labor glut has caused a drop in real wages and stalled the improvements in
working conditions that might naturally occur in a more competitive market,
concluded the U.S. Commission on Agricultural Workers in a 1992 report.
Immigrant workers, who often go through long periods without jobs, have had to
scramble to get enough hours of work, and mechanization efforts have been
shelved because of the ready supply of cheap labor, the commission found. At the
same time, the availability of cheap foreign labor has allowed growers to
greatly expand the acres under cultivation.

Now, growers want to ensure that their cheap and reliable foreign labor supply
remains unthreatened. They fear more effective border controls could dry up
their supply of laborers as soon as this spring.

"We won't put an $18 billion industry at risk that the crops won't get
harvested," said Gabriel of the California Farm Bureau. "If we can't get a
domestic work force, we want a legal way to get others to do the work."

Special program

The U.S. Labor Department already has a special program for industries that
can't fill jobs with domestic workers. But California growers say its
requirement that they advertise for a set time period for domestic workers is
too cumbersome during peak harvest weeks. Farm Bureau officials argue that
agriculture, unlike other industries that rely on undocumented workers, such as
construction, restaurants and textiles, deserves special consideration.

"Agriculture can justify the argument because you are dealing with perishable
commodities," lobbyist Gabriel said. "Things that will spoil."

"I think it's a hard sell," said Mike Hancock, executive director of the
Farmworker Justice Fund in Washington, "but I never underestimate the power of
agriculture to get what they want."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 1995

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 4/16/95, pg. 4A)
On the cover of today's Business section, the opening paragraphs of Michelle
Levander's story "Braceros for the '90s" may be difficult to read. That section
is reprinted below:

GRAPHIC: Photos (5);
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Aurelio Vargas: grueling work under poor conditions.
950416 BU 1E 1; color
PHOTO: COURTESY OF HILDA MAYER, JACK LLOYD AND UC-BERKELEY AGRICULTURAL
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Mexicans interested in the guest worker program in the 1940s lined up for a
medical exam.
950416 BU 2E 1
PHOTO: COURTESY OF HILDA MAYER, JACK LLOYD AND UC-BERKELEY AGRICULTURAL
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Men outside a Mexico City soccer stadium to sign up for the bracero program.
Many had beenstanding for five days when this photo was taken in the 1940s.
950416 BU 1E 4; color
PHOTO: Silberio Garcia, "You were enslaved to a job"
950416 BU 1E 2; color
PHOTO: Domingo Najar, "Experience as a guest brought him back here"
950416 BU 1E 3; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 20, 1995 Thursday HOME EDITION

BRITISH INTERCEPT, DEPORT MAN WHO MAY BE WITNESS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1399 words


British immigration agents today stopped a man being sought for questioning in
the Oklahoma City terror bombing and deported him back to the United States. A
U.S. Justice Department official would say only that the man was believed to be
a witness.

In a brief statement, a representative for the British Home Office said the man
tried to enter England on a U.S. passport after flying into Heathrow Airport
outside London from Chicago.

"The man was identified by immigration staff at Heathrow airport this morning. .
. . He was interviewed, refused entry to the U.K., detained and returned to the
United States," the representative said. "He has been returned to the United
States by the U.K. immigration service."

The representative declined to further identify the man, saying he was arrested
based on information coming from cooperation between U.S. and British
authorities. She also declined to say to what city he was being returned.

The possible break in the case came as hundreds of federal law enforcement
agents today mounted a massive search for suspects in the Oklahoma City bombing
with much of the investigation focused on vehicles rented in Dallas shortly
before the attack.

Top officials remained tight-lipped about any particular suspects or possible
motives for the devastating terrorist attack.

White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta said this morning that it was too early
to point the finger at specific suspects. "Obviously, there are some
characteristics here that are being looked at, but at this point, frankly, we
really don't have any definitive info as to who the suspects would be," Panetta
said.

But there were indications that the investigation was focusing on suspects with
possible links to the Islamic Jihad, a terrorist group often tied to Iran, and
on vehicles rented from a National Car Rental office at the Dallas- Fort Worth
Airport just before the bombing.

A top leader of the group, Sheik Nafez Azzam, today vigorously denied his group
was involved.

An FBI communique distributed Wednesday afternoon indicated that FBI
investigators suspect the attack was carried out by the Islamic Jihad. The
communique speculated that the attack was retaliation for the prosecution of
Muslim fundamentalists accused of bombing the World Trade Center in New York
City, according to a Dallas Morning News report.

The communique said people saying they represented three groups claimed
responsibility for the attack: remnants of the Branch Davidians, The Nation of
Islam, and Islamic Jihad. But, the FBI notice added, "we are currently inclined
to suspect the Islamic Jihad as the likely group."

Texas police investigators said today that authorities believe the 1,000- to
1,200-pound bomb was carried in a National Car Rental minivan with Texas license
plates.

A government counterterrorism official in Washington told the Associated Press
today that the van used in the explosion was found to have been rented by a
white Anglo male. He added that investigators also found that the person gave an
alias on the car rental form and officials are investigating overseas
connections of various people who were in the vicinity of the building.

Late Wednesday, federal officials acknowledged investigators also went to the
National office Wednesday afternoon to seek information about the rental of a
blue Chevrolet Cavalier.

Early today, the Oklahoma Highway Patrol said it had found a Chevrolet Cavalier
that may have been involved in the bombing, and that "follow-up interviews" were
being conducted.

Weldon Kennedy, the FBI agent in charge of the on-site investigation, said he
couldn't comment on any interviews and stressed that the agency did not have
anyone in custody who was considered a suspect in the case. "At this point, we
have literally hundreds of leads to pursue," he said.

But a National Car Rental representative confirmed the FBI suspected that
vehicles involved in the attack were rented at the airport office. Investigators
were "trying to determine the connection, if any," said Gail Spratt, National's
media relations manager. "Something has led them to National Car Rental."

Security experts said the manner in which the attack was carried out point to a
Middle East connection.

They noted that car bombs are a specialty of Iranian-supported Shiite terrorist
groups and such bombs were used by terrorists in the 1983 bombing of U.S. Marine
barracks in Beirut; bombings of the Israeli embassy and Jewish Cultural Center
in Buenos Aires, Argentina; and at the World Trade Center.

And, they added, the fertilizer-and-oil mixture believed to have been used in
Oklahoma City is the same type of bomb used in the World Trade Center.

Officials with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms said the size of the
bomb -- an estimated 1,000 to 1,200 pounds of explosives in a car, van or panel
truck -- suggested a well-planned act of terrorism.

Those initial estimates mean the Oklahoma City bomb could have been more
powerful than the car bomb that ripped through the World Trade Center, a device
estimated to contain about 1,000 pounds of explosives, said Jack Killorin, an
BATF representative in Washington.

Within hours of the explosion in Oklahoma City, officials recovered fragments of
a vehicle that could have held the bomb. The wreckage was found just across the
street from a 20-foot-wide crater left by the blast.

"We know that there's a car frame -- all that's left is a frame in the parking
lot across from the federal building. It appears that it was blown from the
federal building and was either at or very near the site of the detonation,"
said Tommy Wittman, an assistant special agent in charge at BATF's Dallas
division office. The Dallas office oversees BATF operations in Oklahoma City,
and its agents are among the BATF officials assisting in the federal
investigation.

Meanwhile, the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel reported in today's editions that
the world's intelligence agencies -- including the FBI and CIA -- have known for
months that Middle Eastern terrorists were plotting a terror onslaught aimed at
the United States.

A U.S. intelligence report details a meeting of terrorist groups and their
backers last fall in the Middle East to plot retribution attacks around the time
of Egyptian cleric Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman's trial.

The U.S. intelligence report states the terrorists planned attacks during
Rahman's trial. The report is so detailed that it includes the names of major
terrorists, foreign officials who have helped them, and dates and places where
they met.

"This organization, which has infiltrated a large number of countries, is
planning to launch a campaign of terrorist operations against U.S. embassies and
interests abroad, in addition to targets inside the United States itself," the
report says.

One passage noted: "Secret meetings have been held at the highest levels, since
last summer, to prepare a detailed list of targets, to lay down plans to attack
these targets, and to train the commando groups who will carry out these
operations."

Two key meetings are specifically identified in the intelligence report. One
took place last October in the Firozi Palace, the late Shah's winter place in
Tehran. The other meeting took place in the back room of a Detroit pizza parlor
and was organized by a top-ranking Islamic radical living in the United States,
who had attended the Tehran meeting, the report says.

His instructions: "Set forth to strike at American targets inside the United
States and Canada, including commercial and tourist centers, bridges and
metros."

And as for why the attack might have been launched in Oklahoma City, Oliver
"Buck" Revell, retired head of the FBI's Dallas office and a nationally known
terrorism expert, said that "Oklahoma City has been the location where a number
of Islamic groups have had meetings and conferences. They've gone there just
because they felt it was an area where they would not get a lot of attention."
And Steven Emerson, a former CNN correspondent who produced the documentary
"Jihad in America" broadcast by PBS last year, pointed out that he was first
alerted to radical Islamic groups in the United States when he attended their
1992 convention -- in Oklahoma City.

"Why Oklahoma City?" he asked rhetorically. "Well, who is going to look for
Islamic radicals in Oklahoma City?"

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related articles this section
Bombing in Oklahoma City
The Dallas Morning News, the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel, Reuters and the
Associated Press contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
An injured man holds a towel to his face after the deadly explosion Wednesday at
the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in downtown Oklahoma City.
950420 FR 13A PH 1
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Below, firefighters and emergency workers search through the debris.
950420 FR 13A PH 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 20, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW MANY IMMIGRANTS? FROM WHERE?

BYLINE: THOMAS SOWELL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 617 words


ONE OF the problems with discussing immigrants in general is that there is no
such thing as an immigrant in general. Not only do they vary from one individual
to another, whole categories of immigrants have very different histories, both
in their respective homelands and in the United States.

Less than 5 percent of the immigrants from Britain or Germany go on welfare when
they get here, but more than 25 percent of the immigrants from Vietnam go on
welfare, as do nearly 50 percent of those from Cambodia. That compares to 14
percent among American blacks.

If making any distinction among immigrant groups is "racist," as the
intelligentsia seem to think, then apparently the choice facing the country is
to be racist or to be suckers who pay for anyone who wants to come here and live
off the American taxpayers. Nothing will promote racism more than a choice like
that.

What about that wonderful "diversity" we hear so many rhapsodies about?

You want diversity? They have diversity in Bosnia, in Somalia, in Rwanda and in
various former Soviet republics where people are today slaughtering each other
just for belonging to the "wrong" group.

We haven't reached that point yet, but give us time. Already polls are
indicating that young whites and young blacks are more hostile to one another
than are their elders. What does that say about the future? Throw in a few more
groups, and lots of "leaders" and activists to hype their differences, and our
future may not be a lot better than that of other "multicultural" and "diverse"
nations.

Do immigrants contribute nothing? Of course they contribute something. Some
immigrants -- Albert Einstein and Edward Teller, for example -- have undoubtedly
saved tens of thousands of American lives by making this the first nuclear
nation. That not only brought World War II to an end without leaving the beaches
of Japan strewn with the bodies of American soldiers, but it also made any new
Pearl Harbor against the United States a suicidal gamble for any other country.
Some immigrants come here with more of the traditional American values of work
and family than many of the current generation of Americans. Many come here
wanting nothing more than to become Americans. But many of the morally anointed
intelligentsia want them to stay foreign in culture and alienated from the
values of the country.

To a large segment of the intelligentsia, immigration is just one more stage on
which to engage in moral preening, showing off their own wonderful specialness
compared to the grubby masses. They treat immigration to the United States as if
it were a civil right of foreigners around the world and regard any thought of
controlling our own borders in the interest of the people who live here as
mean-spirited.

One of the few books to challenge this vision of the anointed is the recently
published "Alien Nation" by Peter Brimelow. This book has its flaws but it is
one of the few opportunities to see what arguments can be made against
immigration.

Brimelow points out, for example, that diseases once virtually extinct in the
United States, such as tuberculosis, leprosy and measles, have now been
introduced again by immigrants from the Third World. Crime rates are also very
high among some immigrant groups.

Anyone who wants to see arguments on the other side can read any of a number of
pro-immigration books or essays by Julian Simon. The point here is that the
whole subject of immigration policy has been beset with taboos for too long.

All sorts of rational arguments can be made for or against immigration. It is
just that very few are. Among the questions that need to be addressed are: How
many and from where?

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Thomas Sowell, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, is a nationally
syndicated columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: DAVID ROSE
950420 ED 13B 2s

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 25, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHINESE WOMEN FACE DEPORTATION REVERSAL: CLINTON OFFICIALS REJECT HARSH
BIRTH-CONTROL POLICY AS GROUNDS FOR ASYLUM.

BYLINE: JENNIFER LIN, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 975 words

DATELINE: Bakersfield


In the Chinese city of Wenzhou there is a hospital with the lyrical name of East
Wind. Hu Shuyue and Chun Nan remember it well.

Hu was strapped to an operating table there for a forced abortion when she was
six months pregnant with her third child; Chun Nan was ordered to East Wind to
be sterilized after the birth of her second son.

"I will never forget that," said Hu, 40, wincing at the memory. "I am so sad, so
bitter."

Both women fled China by paying Chinese gangsters to smuggle them into the
United States aboard the Golden Venture cargo ship, which ran aground near New
York City in June 1993 with nearly 300 passengers.

The women sought political asylum in America, saying they were fleeing the harsh
birth control policies of China.

But that has not been enough to satisfy immigration officials and, now, after
two years of detention, Hu and Chun Nan are on the verge of being sent back to
an uncertain fate in China.

The likely deportation of Hu, Chun Nan and other Chinese women is threatening to
raise a fresh political storm for the Clinton administration.

Accepted for admission

In recent years thousands of illegal immigrants have used fear of coercive
birth-control measures in China to gain admission to the United States.

But President Clinton decided last August to take a tougher approach to Chinese
asylum cases, officially reversing the more lenient policies of former President
Bush.

Conservatives in Congress and elsewhere say Clinton is being too tough --
sending women with legitimate fears of prison or serious political harassment
back to China.

"I'll be done for if I have to go back to China," said Chun Nan, 44, who only
wanted her given names printed, keeping her family name anonymous.

A total of 13 women -- most of whom have had forced abortions or sterilizations
in the past -- are among the first group of Golden Venture passengers being
forced back to China.

They are being held in Bakersfield, and their departure could come within days.
Hundreds of others could follow. About 1,000 illegal Chinese immigrants are
being held at INS facilities around the country.

"Most of these women have been horribly victimized in China, and I'm shocked
that this is not grounds for asylum," said Richard Cook, an attorney in New
Orleans who is representing the women. "They are absolutely terrified. They are
all looking at long prison times or fines at the least."

Supporters in Congress

Many on Capitol Hill are taking up the cause of the Golden Venture women. Rep.
Henry Hyde, R-Ill., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and Rep.
Christopher Smith, R-N.J., chairman of the subcommittee on human rights, said
Congress would consider putting into law a guarantee of asylum for people who
are forced to have abortions or sterilizations.

Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, told the
president he guaranteed such legislation would pass Congress.

Lory Rosenberg, a legal expert for the American Immigration Law Foundation in
Washington, said in a letter to the INS that there has been "blatant disregard
for the rights of these women to be released on parole or even considered for
release."

She said the Golden Venture episode has made "a mockery" of Clinton's new
policy.

During the administration of President Bush, asylum was granted to all Chinese
who suffered under the country's coercive family planning rules. That policy,
established in 1990, triggered a flood of illegal Chinese, many of whom cited
fear of family planning in seeking refuge here.

To stem that flood, Clinton tightened the political asylum rules, omitting fear
of family planning.

He said he would make special exceptions for some of the worst cases of
suffering and abuse. Clinton envisioned that as a humanitarian safety net. But
the net is not catching any of the women from the Golden Venture.

The president has left it up to the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
stop deportations in hardship cases. But immigration attorneys fear that the INS
will take an equally hard line with the nearly 800 other Chinese men and women
in detention who are seeking asylum under similar family-planning complaints. To
be sure, Bush's policy of favorable treatment for Chinese because of China's
family planning rules was a magnet, drawing thousands of illegal immigrants.
They came by plane, they came by boat. At the height of the wave in 1993, there
were more than 100,000 illegal Chinese immigrants.

Some had credible complaints; others used family-planning coercion as a
convenient argument.

The grounding of the Golden Venture brought the problem of illegal immigration
from China to a head. The image of a decrepit vessel running aground not far
from the Statue of Liberty prompted the Clinton administration to take a tough
stand.

To make the smugglers suffer, the INS detained their cargo -- people like Hu and
Chun Nan -- so the people couldn't find jobs and pay off their debts to the
gangsters. The debts were large, too. Each passenger owed the smugglers, called
"snakeheads," about $30,000 each.

Under direction from Clinton, all 285 Golden Venture passengers were detained in
facilities across the country. Hu and Chun Nan were locked up in New York,
before being transferred to New Orleans. Two weeks ago, they were flown to
Bakersfield.

Inside the visitors room of the Kern County Detention Facility here, Hu seemed
anxious and perplexed about many things.

Why is she locked up behind barbed wire? Why was she flown here in shackles from
New Orleans two weeks ago? Why has she spent nearly two years behind bars like a
criminal?

Where is she going next?

Hu could speak no English, but her face, with one eye twitching nervously,
implored what her voice could not: Get me out of here.

In all likelihood, that won't happen.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 25, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAY SOME RESPECT TO ELDERLY IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 322 words


I am responding to the April 16 article "Welfare program takes a twist" by
Ashley Dunn, telling about the growing number of immigrants receiving
Supplemental Social Security (SSI).

Dunn quoted Daniel Stein as saying, "The American dream is no longer to start at
the bottom and work your way up. It's to transfer your assets to your children
and get on SSI as fast as you can." The Republicans would delay eligibility
until age 75.

Stein and the Republicans, and probably Dunn, based on the example she cited
about an immigrant living in New York, think that these people are freeloaders.
The New York woman was working in a garment factory, earning $40 a week. She
gave up her job when she became eligible to receive $280 month from SSI.

It seems clear that she made a wise decision. It is just as clear that garment
shops are notorious for exploiting immigrant workers and that it is the owner
who paid the 74-year-old Ho Yin-peng but $40 per week who should be scorned.

Using Dunn's figures, the cost for providing SSI for immigrants over 65 years
old who entered legally and who have lived here a minimum of five years is $2
billion. That's less than the cost of one F-22 warplane.

Stein and Dunn would have us believe that poor people are anxious to get rid of
their assets in order to receive $280 a month? What assets? Based on the fact
that the top 1 percent of the U.S. population has more wealth than the bottom 90
percent, it's probable that she had few or no assets. Immigrants receiving SSI
comprise less than one-fifth of 1 percent of the total population.

Have we become so devoid of a sense of responsibility and compassion that we
pass laws that require older people, mostly parents and grandparents, to live
and die in poverty while other laws make it possible for a single individual to
amass greater wealth than the cost of the entire SSI program?

-- Al Traugott

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 27, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ADMIT IMMIGRANTS BASED ON SKILLS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 191 words


I read with avid interest Thomas Sowell's April 20 commentary "How many
immigrants? From where?"

As a lawfully admitted immigrant, permanent resident of the United States and
professionally employed taxpayer, I generally agree with his assertion that our
country cannot afford to take on the impoverished masses from around the world.
Yet, his question "from where?" betrays the true intent and bigotry in Sowell
and Peter Brimelow's prescriptions.

The question should be "what kind?" Other immigrant nations such as Canada and
Australia have implemented their immigration policies as a selection process
based on such factors as skills, education and fluency in English. This is
healthy for the nation, assuring a skilled workforce and productive citizenry.
Nativity is not and should not be the issue. Silicon Valley and universities
around the country dramatically drive home this point: Thousands of Indians,
Chinese, Poles, etc. sustain the competitive advantage of our country in
technology and science.

The question can justifiably be "what kind" (of immigrants do we admit) and not
"from where."

-- Rameysh Ramdas

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the Editor

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MARGARET SCOTT
950427 ED 10B 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 1, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MUSICAL CHRONICLES CORRIDOS RECOUNT HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS' STRUGGLES AND TRIUMPHS
EVERYDAY LIFE PUT TO MUSIC IN BALLADS BY LOCAL GROUPS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1396 words


A few days after 29-year-old Jose "el mono" Torres was gunned down in East Palo
Alto, his mariachi buddies mourned his death -- they wrote a song about it.

When a well-known Mexican songwriter in San Jose heard of an international feud
between two families, in Redwood City and in the Mexican state of Michoacan, he
described the bloody rivalry in the best way he could -- he wrote a song about
it, featuring rapid gunfire between huffs of an accordion.

The recordings haven't become hits on Spanish-language radio, here or in Mexico.
But that's not unusual or discouraging for the artists when their music is based
on Mexican corridos -- folkloric ballads that narrate everyday stories for
everyday people. Derived from the name of a popular 18th-century ballad in
Spain, corridos were exported to Mexico, where they carried news from village to
village, playing a vital role in the Mexican Revolution of 1910.

Nowadays, the story-telling tradition continues to thrive even on the Peninsula
and in the South Bay, where groups perform songs about local happenings.

Current events

These ballads are usually written about current events that affect Mexicans,
Mexican-Americans and other Hispanics here or in their homeland. Popular themes,
played to a catchy oom-pah-pah beat, include tragedies, love affairs, miracles,
narcotics, horses and immigration.

Immigration has been a mainstay, chronicling the struggles of newcomers crossing
the border and looking for work. Often, they condemn exploitation by those who
smuggle them and discrimination by those who hire them.

"It relates a story, and the story could be anything," said famed Chicano
musician Lalo Guerrero, 78, who wrote his first corrido in 1957, a tribute to
legendary Mexican singer Pedro Infante. Guerrero, who will perform in Cinco de
Mayo festivities in San Jose Sunday, also wrote songs used in "Zoot Suit," a
musical and a 1981 film.

While schools and books present the official view of history, said Guillermo
Hernandez, a corridos scholar at UCLA, "corridos present the folk view of
history."

Sometimes the songs are about famous figures, even those not really loved by the
people, such as the corrido about Gov. Pete Wilson and Proposition 187. They're
also written about popular people, dead or alive, such as slain Mexican
presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio, or slain Tejano singer Selena.
Corridos also feature people known only to their friends and family, such as
Torres, the East Palo Alto slaying victim who is better known in death than in
life because of the song.

"It's almost like a tribute -- if a corrido is written about you, that's big
time," said Dora Zamora, public affairs director at Spanish-language KLOK-AM
radio in San Jose, which airs a weekly program on corridos.

The death of el mono

"El Corrido del Mono," written five years ago, has been recorded by a group in
Mexico and earlier this month by Redwood City mariachis, Los Alegres de Tierra
Caliente de Michoacan.

The story goes like this: On a 17th of March, death was in East Palo Alto.
Torres was wounded by a bullet but still managed to whip out his gun and shoot
the other guy. Both perished, though Torres died satisfied, wrote Uriel
Gonzalez, of East Palo Alto, to the background of a harp and violins.

The song is often heard in North Fair Oaks, the unincorporated pocket between
Redwood City and Atherton that is home to many from the rural Mexican state of
Michoacan.

Every night, musicians lugging bulky instruments stroll bar-to-bar down
Middlefield Road in North Fair Oaks, offering their songs for 10 bucks a pop.
They play traditional ballads inspired by the Mexican Revolution. They also keep
up with a growing demand for trendy hits, such as corridos of violent deaths and
illegal drugs.

"We have to try to learn them daily. It's a necessity," said Manuel Simon
Barajas, who plays a 12-string guitar that has 10 strings. His partner, David
Mandujano, squeezes a small accordion, and both specialize in norteno music,
much of which includes corridos.

Down the street, at The Mug, a group of loud men request "El Corrido de la
Gallina" (The ballad of the chicken), from Mariachi Los Monarcas, a seven-man
band that opens each gig with loud trumpets.

The songs bring a smile to the face of Francisco Javier Rodriguez Mendoza, 22,
sipping Bud Light at the back of the bar. "The way they are playing here --
that's how it is over there," said Rodriguez Mendoza, a native of Michoacan.

Famous feud

He knows corridos. Several have been written about the Mendoza side of his
family, he said. Those are the same Mendozas who battle the Ramoses in a fatal
feud that boomerangs between the United States and Mexico.

Enrique Franco, who for years was chief lyricist for the Grammy-winning San
Jose-based group, Los Tigres del Norte, wrote and sang a ballad about the feud
last year. He got the idea from a Mexican tabloid newspaper.

In his "Vendetta Michoacana," Franco begins on a Michoacan ranch, with a fight
that nobody wants to remember. "The federal courts, jurisdiction Michoacan, have
wanted to accuse the Ramoses and Mendozas. They (the families) want to
monopolize the drug contraband," he wrote.

Franco, of San Jose, will never forget the first time he performed the song in
Redwood City, where many Mendozas and Ramoses live. He was on stage at the
Flamingo club when, for reasons unknown at the time, chairs began to fly across
the room as he sang "Vendetta Michoacana." "All of a sudden I stopped, and we
all ran out from there," Franco said.

He later learned the audience was sympathetic to friends or relatives of both
families. Franco continues to perform the popular song -- in San Jose, Morgan
Hill, Oakland, Los Angeles and San Diego. Anywhere but the Flamingo.

Corridos have come a long way since they focused on subjects such as national
heroes, crop failures and winning race horses.

In the 1960s, story-songs by Guerrero, the Chicano writer, chronicled segments
of history that Hispanics will probably remember: the Chicano civil rights
marches and riots in East Los Angeles, the rise of United Farm Workers Union
leader Cesar Chavez and the death of Robert Kennedy.

In the 1990s, young corrido fans are big on songs about drugs and blood, which
Franco says "unfortunately" reflect the times.

"The corrido keeps evolving as new themes and new problems are emerging," said
Hernandez, the UCLA professor, who is writing a book on the ballads. "I think
there are going to be many years ahead for the corrido."

'VENDETTA MICHOACANA,' WRITTEN AND SUNG BY ENRIQUE FRANCO OF SAN JOSE:

Se ha declarado la guerra, se quieren exterminar

A los hombres o mujeres les da por igual matar.

La gente vende sus tierras nadie se quiere quedar.

The war has been declared, they want to exterminate each other.

Men or women are equally likely to kill.

The people sell their lands, nobody wants to stay.

La vendetta Michoacana ya se hizo internacional.

De Redwood City a Tijuana se han matado por igual.

The vendetta Michoacana has gone international.

From Redwood City to Tijuana they've killed for the same reasons.

'El Corrido del Mono,' by Los Alegres de Tierra Caliente de Michoacan, a Redwood
City-based group. Words by Uriel Gonzalez of East Palo Alto:

Voy a cantar un corrido, pero al cantar casi lloro.

Senores, es el corrido de Jose Torres, el mono.

Un 17 de marzo, como se me ha de olvidar

La muerte andaba en (East) Palo Alto, se lo venia a llevar.

Le madrugaron al mono, y eso no se ha de dudar

El mono muy mal herido, casi para agonizar.

Logro sacar su pistola y al otro pudo matar.

I'm going to sing a corrido, but when I sing I almost cry.

Senores, it's the corrido of Jose Torres, el mono.

A 17th of March, how can I ever forget,

Death was in (East) Palo Alto, it came to take him away.

They ambushed el mono, there can be no doubt about it.

El mono was critically wounded, nearly at death's door,

(Yet) he managed to draw his pistol and kill the other guy.

El mono era un buen amigo, que nadie podra olvidar.

El se paseaba con todos, fue amigo a carta cabal.

Pidiendo siempre a mariachi 'La tragedia de vernal.'

El mono was a good friend, whom no one can ever forget.

He got along with everyone, he was a friend in every respect.

Always asking the mariachi for (his favorite song).

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information attached to the end of this article

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
Mariachi musicians count their tips after a night's work at The Mug in North
Fair Oaks.
950501 FR 12A; color
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE --
MERCURY NEWS
Bar patron Alex Rivera, left, joins Los Incorrigibles del Norte guitarist Ismael
Ochoa at El Tenampa, in Redwood City.
950501 FR 1A 1; color PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE --
MERCURY NEWS
After
working the bars and streets, Manuel Simon Barajas, left, and David Mandujano
relax on a North Fair Oaks corner.
950501 FR 1A PF; color

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 3, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE TECH ATTRACTS TOURISTS TO SAN JOSE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 497 words


I read with pleasure the April 27 editorial on the Tech Museum and the Rep
Theater. I was sorry about the San Jose City Council's action in moving ahead
with the Rep.

The arena has done much to bring national attention to San Jose. Perhaps people
do not understand that the Tech is also very valuable in bringing tourists.

As a volunteer at the Tech, I meet many people from all over the nation and from
foreign countries. Last week I talked at length to a young man from Switzerland
who was interested in taking home some CD-ROMS and wanted to know where he could
buy them.

I hope the Mercury News will continue to alert people to the value of this
unique institution.

-- Edna Allen

San Jose
Increased immigration makes the poor poorer

One of the reasons that the poor in this country have fared badly in the last 15
years is because of massive legal and illegal immigration. With a huge growth in
the labor supply and without strong unions to protect them, low-wage workers in
this country have seen their portion of the economic pie reduced substantially.
Unfortunately for low-wage workers, the law of supply and demand works. We have
an oversupply of low-skill workers, so their wages go down.

Gov. Pete Wilson, after earlier supporting increased legal immigration and
ignoring for years a growing problem of illegal immigration, cynically jumped on
the Proposition 187 bandwagon a year ago. Now we see again his true colors.
Wilson supports a return of the Bracero program. This is the same guest worker
program that started many of our problems with illegal immigration.

The Central Valley growers claim that they need guest workers. Yet many of our
rural counties have double-digit unemployment figures. Of course, what the
growers really want is an even larger worker pool so that wages can be depressed
still further.

-- John Mitchem

San Jose
Peeping through a window of opportunity

Did I read this right? Some dude points his VCR under the short wall in the
change room, tapes a few minutes of epidermis and he's not a peeping Tom? ("A
(peep)hole in the law," April 21.) The judge thinks if it's not a double- hung
sash, a French casement or a jalousie, it isn't a window?

Two cases come to mind. In one jurisdiction a law was enacted 100 years ago
forbidding "carrying a pistol on the rider or in a saddlebag." Recently a
driver's car was stopped and searched and a loaded .38 was found in the glove
compartment. The judge had no trouble explaining that a gun in a glove
compartment is legally the same as one in a saddlebag. The conviction stuck.

Another jurisdiction passed an ordinance against "creating a disturbance in an
opera house." Some hooligans who went too far found out that in this day and age
"opera house" includes a drive-in theater.

I wish Judge Ralph Brogdon had that much knowledge of the law. And, hey, judge,
don't you realize that perp did the taping through the window of opportunity?

-- M.V. Stivison

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 3, 1995 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

CUBANS ANGRY OVER POLICY

BYLINE: WILL LESTER, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 586 words

DATELINE: Miami


Cuban exiles heard the best possible news about refugees detained at the
Guantanamo base in Cuba the same day their worst fears came true.

The anger eclipsed the joy.

Reversing 30 years of U.S. policy, the Clinton administration said Tuesday it
will allow up to 20,000 Cuban detainees to come to this country over the next
few months -- but will begin sending new refugees back to Cuba.

"We feel like the rug was pulled out from under us,' said Jorge Mas Canosa,
chairman of the Cuban American National Foundation, who learned of the policy
change in a call from Secretary of State Warren Christopher. "We were deceived
by President Clinton. He told us there were no secret negotiations going on."
The Cuban-American fury crackled over the airwaves, dominated cafe discussions
and brought pledges of retaliation.

Florida gets ready

As Florida officials began planning for yet another wave of Cuban immigration,
exile leaders in Miami promised to immediately end the sponsorship program they
say has cut the public cost of resettling Cuban refugees.

"They made this policy alone," said Mas Canosa. "Let them now solve the problems
of Guantanamo alone."

Florida's congressional delegation, as well as state and local officials, made
it clear they need an infusion of federal money to pay for the next wave of
immigrants from the communist island nation. The flood of 125,000 Cubans to
South Florida after the 1980 Mariel boatlift overwhelmed local services and
budgets.

U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, a Florida Democrat who defended Clinton's actions,
expected a letter today from the administration detailing federal financial
help. He said the new policy was a "workable solution to what has been an
untenable situation" at the U.S. Navy base on the western tip of Cuba.

Miami balks

"The city of Miami is not responsible for these people that are arriving from
Guantanamo," said City Manager Cesar Odio, who helped manage the Mariel crisis
in 1980. "This is a federal responsibility and they'll have to send dollars down
here to make sure Jackson Memorial Hospital and the school system can cope."

Republicans in the state's congressional delegation immediately criticized the
new policy as an unfair burden on Florida, a sign of weakness dealing with
Castro and yet another Clinton flip-flop.

Clinton has been wrestling with Cuban migration policy since the summer, when
nearly 35,000 boat people tried to reach Florida on homemade rafts.

A partial solution at the time was his decision to abandon the longstanding U.S.
policy of accepting almost all Cubans. But the United States has never before
routinely repatriated refugees from Fidel Castro's communist rule.

"We couldn't afford to continue to go the way we were going, just waiting for
another boatlift to happen," said Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles.

In Union City, N.J., heart of the highest concentration of Cuban Americans
outside Miami, reaction was mixed.

"It's very good news for families who have been torn apart from their families,"
said Democratic Assemblyman Rudy Garcia, who was 4 when his parents moved to
Union City from Cuba. "There is the opposite argument that it restricts further
immigrants from coming to the United States, but you can't have it all."

At Guantanamo, joy at the promise of freedom reigned.

"There is a big conga line here," Carlos Rafael Pedroso, 23, who along with his
wife has spent nearly eight months at the camp, told the Sun-Sentinel of Fort
Lauderdale. "I know there is an end to it."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: New York Times
Cuban refugees and U.S. specialists engage in dance therapy at Guantanamo base
last week
950503 FR 8A PF

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 10, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ACTS TO BREAK CITIZENSHIP BOTTLENECK 4 MORE STAFFERS TO JOIN OVERWHELMED
S.J. OFFICE

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 537 words


After months of complaints from immigrant-rights groups, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is sending help to unclog the mammoth backlog of
citizenship applications in its San Jose office, officials said Tuesday.

Four new staffers on loan from offices as far away as Anchorage and Honolulu are
expected to cut the processing time for applications from a projected 18 months
-- the longest delay in the country -- to six months.

"A lot of people are applying, and we owe them to make the process faster," said
David Still, an assistant director in the INS district office in San Francisco.
"This should take a real bite off the wait."

Immigrant-rights advocates had complained that the long delays would prevent
thousands of would-be citizens from voting in the 1996 presidential election.
The faster processing time means that up to 15,000 area immigrants will get
their citizenship in time to vote at that time, said Richard Hobbs, director of
Catholic Charities' immigration program in San Jose.

Area naturalization groups say that as a result, up to 35,000 newly naturalized
immigrants will be eligible to vote in Santa Clara County in November of 1996.

"That could change the political landscape of Santa Clara County," Hobbs said.

The four reassigned staffers will arrive in San Jose by June 1, said Still. The
positions will expire in September, he said. Two of them come from residency
card processing at the San Francisco office and two others come from Anchorage
and Honolulu offices that have not been swamped with requests for citizenship.

Processing to speed up

With the additions, the number of applications processed monthly in San Jose
should increase by 80 percent, said Richard Brown, San Jose INS director of
naturalizations. Five staffers now conduct the time-consuming naturalization
interviews.

The San Jose office processes an average of 1,300 applications a month. But in
March the office received 2,300 applications, and in April it got 1,570. At this
rate, the office is almost certain to get more than double the 10,480
applications it received in 1993, Brown said.

The flood of applicants is part of a nationwide trend fueled by more immigrants
becoming eligible for citizenship, concerns over anti-immigrant initiatives and
revamped naturalization campaigns.

Last month, the INS requested about $40 million to tackle citizenship backlogs
nationwide.

If that funding is approved, the temporary staffers assigned to San Jose will
return to their regular posts and be replaced by 10 of the 34 new staffers
permanently assigned to the San Francisco district office -- which oversees
Northern California INS operations, Still said.

Criticism turns to praise

But it is unclear whether Congress will approve the funding. Citizenship groups
such as the American Immigration Lawyers Association, which had complained about
INS inaction, praised the agency for taking steps to speed the process
regardless.

Hortencia Cordero, 45, of San Jose, a Mexican immigrant who applied for
citizenship in February, said she was ecstatic with the added staffers.

"This gives me hope," she said. "I'm glad they finally recognized that something
needed to be done."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: CARL NEIBURGER -- MERCURY NEWS
Citizenship applications in San Jose
Chart contains monthly information for the last 2 years and 4 months
950510 FR 7A

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 10, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BLOC HAS ITS OWN RHETORIC

BYLINE: SAMUEL FRANCIS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 594 words


IF FBI Director Louis Freeh is looking for some extremist groups to investigate,
he need look no further than the hate-and-violence drenched movement in the
southwestern United States that pushes for open immigration and demands return
of the Southwest to Mexico. Long before right-wing militias began mobilizing in
reaction against gun control, far-left Hispanic activists were soaking
themselves in violent rhetoric that makes the militias sound like the Little
League.

Last year, not long after the passage of California's Proposition 187, a radical
Hispanic group calling itself the Mexican Movement for National Liberation put
out a statement that let us know what it thinks about the effort to remove
illegal immigrants from the welfare rolls. Proposition 187 "is a declaration of
war against the Mexican people in the militarily occupied northern half of our
Mexican nation," it proclaimed.

The statement went on to accuse the "europeans" (note the lower case spelling)
of "genocide against our people" for the last 400 years, but white Americans and
American institutions are the special targets of their hatred. "The local police
departments are nothing more than glorified armies of occupation in our barrios,
colonias and homeland. Their attempts at selective assassinations have failed to
intimidate us. In a version of low-intensity warfare, they have attempted to
destroy our political movements." It's just as well Timothy McVeigh didn't meet
up with these companeros. They would have had a lot to talk about.

Proposition 187, the statement screams, "is a wake-up call to resist by any and
all means," and it calls for creating "the revolutionary clandestine formations
that will defend our people and lead to our ultimate national liberation
struggle and socialist reunification of Mexico." It ends with a call to "create
the conditions for the Mexican Intifada."

Lest you imagine that this and similar statements represent merely a loony
fringe, understand that this one was published in a tabloid newspaper put out by
another group, "People against Racist Terror" (PART) that helped organize mass
demonstrations against 187 in Los Angeles only days before the real citizens of
the state overwhelmingly passed the resolution. PART's rhetoric duplicates that
of the Mexican "liberation" group, comparing the U.S. government to Nazi
Germany.

Curiously also, the newspaper anticipates the fevered witchhunt rhetoric of the
mainstream media in the last few weeks trying to link the populist right with
the Oklahoma City bombing. Thus, it attacks anti-abortion activists, the
religious right, Second Amendment supporters and the militia movement, among
others. Fringe such groups may be, but the point is that they're the ones active
among Hispanics in the Southwest.

But don't bet your camouflage the FBI is looking at this movement, with its
not-too-subtle incitement of violence and guerrilla warfare. What the bureau
actually did during the 187 controversy was harass law-abiding supporters of the
resolution.

Thus, three days before the vote on 187, one of its co-authors, Barbara Coe,
received a little visit from the FBI. Assistant Attorney General Deval Patrick
defends the agents by claiming they were just interested in whether leaflets Coe
had recently distributed about possible illegal voting by aliens had violated
voters' civil rights. But Coe says the agents repeatedly asked if the leaflets
had been designed or distributed by the Republican Party. Just a little visit to
let her know Big Brother was watching.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Samuel Francis is a Washington Times columnist.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 18, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EMOTIONS FLY IN IMMIGRATION DEBATE WAR OF WORDS: CONGRESSMAN, AUTHOR SQUARE OFF
DURING HEARING.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: Washington


California congressman Xavier Becerra, the son of a Mexican laborer, sat in a
House committee room Wednesday and betrayed little but an icy stare as the
alleged sins of immigrants tumbled into the congressional record.

At the witness table sat conservative author Peter Brimelow, whose controversial
new book, "Alien Nation," is the latest fuel for America's already roaring
immigration debate.

Legal immigration is out of control, Brimelow testified.

The writer, who is a British-born immigrant, contended that: Immigration is
unpopular. It's at historic high levels. It's changing the face -- and voice --
of America. It's taxing our welfare rolls. It's feeding racial tension. And it
must be stopped.

"The frontier is closed," Brimelow concluded.

Then Becerra, a two-term liberal Democrat with a law degree from Stanford whose
Los Angeles district is 58 percent Hispanic and 20 percent Asian, began an even
but emotional retort that barely gave Brimelow room to get in an extra word.

'Son of immigrants'

"I almost lost my Spanish," Becerra told Brimelow, a senior editor at Forbes
magazine and the National Review. "I am the son of immigrants and I'm glad that
I tried to recoup my Spanish as best I could. I can communicate with my
grandparents still. I wish more of my generation (could) and I'm making sure
that my daughter can speak Spanish."

Becerra than launched a point-by-point refutation of the author's most extreme
contentions.

Hispanic and Asian immigrants "seek jobs most often and do the most they can to
stay employed," Becerra said. "Who holds more jobs than any other group?
Immigrants. Who starts up businesses more often than any other group?
Immigrants."

The Becerra-Brimelow showdown provided the pyrotechnics for the early stages of
a debate that now appears almost certain to restrict how many people are allowed
to immigrate legally to the United States.

"Immigration levels have steadily increased since the end of World War II, with
no end in sight," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House
immigration subcommittee, who conducted the hearing. "There is justifiable
concern over whether America needs this much immigration at the present time."
Allure of California

About one-third of legal immigrants to the United States settle in California.

Smith, who said he eagerly awaits a report on legal immigration due in early
June from the bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, laid down some
guidelines of his own Wednesday.

The House GOP leader on immigration said he would push legislation that would
admit people with the education, job and language skills needed to succeed in
the United States.

He said he preferred limiting immigration rights to the nuclear family of those
who immigrate. That means a spouse and minor children would be welcome. Extended
family members would not.

"There is no evaluation of what these more extended family members might
contribute to our economy," Smith said of current U.S. immigration policy.

Smith said immigration laws should make explicit that newcomers do not displace
U.S. workers even for unskilled jobs.

Can they contribute?

"While tens of millions of people understandably would like to come to the
United States, only those who will contribute to our economy and our society
should be admitted," the chairman said. "America can create a rational, fair and
constructive immigration policy that is consistent with our national interests."

Susan Martin, executive director of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform,
told the House panel that 798,394 immigrants entered the country legally in
fiscal 1994, down from 880,000 admitted in 1993. She said an additional 136,000
immigrants were admitted above and beyond numerical caps placed on legal
immigration, most of those refugees.

That got Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas, to wondering about the people who frequently
greet him when he lands at Washington's National Airport.

"Not a single cab driver is a person who appears to have been an American for
any length of time," Bryant said. "Why is that?"

Martin, explaining she lacked serious research to respond, said some studies
have shown that the career of choice for Afghan refugees is taxi-cab driving.
"It gave them a lot more freedom than most jobs did," Martin said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 1, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TOWARD NORTH AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 380 words


IN MEXICO, where ancient tragedies refuse to die, there grows a truly modern
idea.

Mexico is considering dual nationality for Mexicans who become U.S. citizens.
Nationality would also extend to their U.S.-born children.

Dual nationality is not the same as dual citizenship. The proposal in the
Mexican Congress would not allow a person to vote in both countries or serve in
both militaries. A dual national, though, would keep certain property rights the
Mexican Constitution denies to foreigners, such as ownership of land near the
coasts and borders.

On Mexico's part, the idea is to encourage U.S. immigrants to become citizens
and protect their rights through the ballot box. Liberals and Mexican-Americans
here hope the dual nationals would develop a wider political voice on local
issues and even U.S.-Mexico relations. But that new voice would be heard more
locally than statewide and beyond. Four of every five California voters are
white. The anxious white electorate, oblivious to a future California that will
be darker-skinned, will continue to out-vote Latinos for at least another
generation.

The real promise of dual nationality is emotional and cultural in nature, but
ultimately powerful, too.

I'm reminded of a Mexican immigrant I interviewed a few years ago in a
working-class San Jose neighborhood. She'd been here for 13 years, had children
in school. Mexico wasn't home anymore and she said so. Yet she had never applied
for U.S. citizenship. Why? Because her Mexican citizenship was her last
connection to Mexico.

We've since lost touch, but I hope she's one of the record numbers of immigrants
who are applying for U.S. citizenship in the wake of Proposition 187 and the
right-wing's jihad against immigrants. Protecting one's rights now is important.
So is making a difference in local school board elections.

But dual nationality moves us toward a new American identity and culture.

These people would be the first true North American citizens. They will expose
the flimsiness of the border between us. They will reinforce the Mexican in
Mexican-Americans. They will push California to create an interdependent and
civil society that doesn't coerce immigrants or minorities. They will help write
the story of post-Anglo California.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS
A PERSONAL VIEW
Joe Rodriguez is a Mercury News editorial writer.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 8, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNINVITED GUESTS USUALLY ARE UNWELCOME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 937 words


The June 1 Personal View "Toward North American citizenship" by Joe Rodriguez
talks about "the right-wing jihad against immigration" and that "protecting
one's rights now is important."

I agree that in the context of Proposition 187 "immigration" refers primarily to
citizens of Mexico who enter this country illegally. The key word here is
"illegally."

Mexico does not allow immigration along its southern border with Guatemala, as
was documented in a May 18 article "Migrants to Mexico," which also pointed out
that Mexican border patrol agents are far more ruthless than their U.S.
counterparts.

Does that arouse you to "push" Mexico "to create an interdependent and civil
society that doesn't coerce immigrants or minorities"?Mexico does encourage its
citizens to enter the United States by any means necessary because this takes
the pressure off its government to deal with the country's immense social
inequalities and official corruption. This double standard is always ignored by
immigration activists.

North American citizenship is a good idea, but only if Mexico attains and lives
under a constitution equal to or better than that of the United States. That is
the challenge for Mexico, and I believe that most U.S. citizens would love to
see that happen and for the Mexican people to grow and prosper. However, it may
take a revolution.

In the meantime, please be aware that immigration is not a right but a privilege
granted by a sovereign nation. Also, that good fences make good neighbors, and
that uninvited guests are rarely looked upon with affection. That's a fact of
life all over the world.

-- Michael Hartrich

Santa Cruz
AIDS VICTIMS REMEMBERED AS FRIENDS AND LOVED ONES

Ironically, Maurice E. Connor's letter disparaging the NAMES Project AIDS Quilt
and the people whose lives it memorializes ("Main causes of AIDS are nothing to
revere," June 4), precisely illustrates the reason that the quilt was created.

Far too many people are willing -- even eager -- to reduce the lives of people
with AIDS to a particular "unorthodox" sex act, rather than to see the rich,
full lives that many of them lived. This makes it far too easy to trivialize and
dehumanize people with AIDS, and to ignore them and the spread of the disease.
After all, it's happening to "them" -- those awful people -- and not to "us."
There are many people on the AIDS Quilt who are heroes of mine: not because of
the way they died, but because of the joyful and loving way they lived -- even
in the face of prejudice, discrimination and hatred.

-- Bennet Marks

Sunnyvale

* If it's possible to miss a point more completely than Maurice E. Connor did in
his June 4 letter, I would be very surprised. The purpose of the Project Names
Quilt is to help personalize the stories of the men, women and children who have
died of AIDS. This it does eloquently and powerfully.

Its goal is to humanize the stories of those who have died, those who have known
them, and those who have cared for them to drive home the message to those who
would sit back and cluck their tongues in disapproval that these are people's
sons, daughters, sisters, brothers, fathers, mothers, lovers, friends and
co-workers.

Crisis brings out the best in some people and the worst in others. After viewing
the quilt, I can safely say that I've seen evidence of the best.

-- Michael D. Soukup

San Jose
* Many diseases are preventable. Think about it the next time you have that
extra glob of butter on your potato or another drink or cigarette.

AIDS will be eliminated with awareness and education. Gay sex will soon pass as
the main cause of AIDS in the United States. World health organization studies
indicate heterosexual sex is the main cause of AIDS worldwide. Many in the gay
community became infected before the cause of AIDS was apparent.

-- Warren Donald Hopper

San Jose
* Maurice E. Connor looks at AIDS victims as faceless statistics, as homosexuals
and IV drug users who should be shunned in life and forgotten in death. The rest
of us know them as real people, as friends and family who enriched our lives,
and whose memories will be cherished always. Their lives are preserved by the
quilt as a lasting memorial for those who loved them.

-- David G. Laudon

Sunnyvale
NEWCOMERS LIFT ECONOMY

I disagree with Bruce Mathias' narrow-minded letter "The high cost of
immigration" (June 3).

A good number of immigrant entrepreneurs are the engines of economic growth in
today's high-tech world. Not only do they create new jobs and new wealth, they
also pay a lot of taxes.

Should such "immigrants" decide to pack up and fly away to more hospitable
climes, the resulting devastation of the local employment and tax base will
quickly end all arguments about immigration for a long time to come.

-- Naveen Tangri

Sunnyvale
COMMUNITY FORUMS

June 10 -- Revising California's Constitution: St. Andrews Methodist Church,
Palo Alto 9 a.m.-noon.(*)

June 12 -- Revising California's Constitution: San Jose City Council Chambers
7-9:30 p.m.(*)

June 14 -- Affirmative Action: Los Altos Public Library 7-9 p.m.(*) (*) (*) June
21 -- Affirmative Action: Campbell Public Library 7-9 p.m.(*) (*) (*)

June 27 -- Revising California's Constitution: Santa Clara City Library 7-9
p.m.(*) (*) (*)

(*) Sponsored by the League of Women Voters and the California Constitutional
Revision Commission.

(*) (*) (*) Sponsored by the Mercury News and area libraries.

To pre-register for Mercury News and public library forums and receive an
advance discussion outline, call Carolyn Warner at (408) 920-5572.

Or just show up.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters To The Editor

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARRIE MAGUIRE
950608 ED 6B 2

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 8, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON STANCE ON IMMIGRATION DRAWS CRITICISM

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 96 words


The White House on Wednesday welcomed a federal advisory panel's recommendation
to cut legal immigration by one-third. But the proposals met fierce opposition
from Hispanic, Asian American, Roman Catholic and Jewish groups, as well as from
the National Association of Manufacturers. Barbara Jordan, chairwoman of the
panel, the Commission on Immigration Reform, delivered the plan to President
Clinton, and he congratulated the panel. His press secretary, Michael McCurry,
said "the president indicated to Barbara Jordan today that he will support such
reductions."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Jordan
950608 FR 11A 3

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 9, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MICHIGAN'S GOVERNOR MAKES IMMIGRATION GAFFE

BYLINE: LORI MONTGOMERY, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: Washington


Florida's Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles complained during congressional hearings
Thursday that a Republican plan to cut Medicaid spending would punish states
with booming populations.

"They're all Haitians and Cubans, though," Michigan Gov. John Engler responded.
He said later he didn't mean to be insensitive or racist, but simply to note
that much of Florida's population increase was from illegal immigration and thus
not eligible for Medicaid.

Engler, three other Republican governors and Chiles were part of a House
Commerce Committee discussion of Medicaid reform.

Republicans in Congress plan to limit drastically the growth of Medicaid
spending. Chiles aide Charles Salem countered: "As Governor Chiles likes to say,
our immigration crisis from the south is dwarfed by our immigration crisis from
the north."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 11, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW MANY IMMIGRANTS? COMMISSION GIVES AMERICA A STARTING POINT: 550,000

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 424 words


HOW much legal immigration is right for America, and why?

Barbara Jordan's federal commission has risen to the challenge of the question
and, if nothing else, has given the nation a starting point -- proposals that
can be publicly discussed without hysteria or prejudice.

The former Texas congresswoman's bipartisan committee would reduce the annual
ceiling on immigrants by a third from the 800,000 admitted last year to 550,00
several years from now. There is nothing magic about either number.
Isolationists will think them too high. Free-market types and some minority-
group advocates will consider them too low.

What the commission wants to make clear is worth hearing: The reductions aren't
a simple and happy compromise between the two camps; they attempt to reflect the
national interest and, to some extent, a decline in some legal immigration
categories.

The commission's top three priorities keep a family-based immigration policy
intact. When a new formula is in place, there will be 400,000 visas for nuclear
family members; 100,000 for professional and skilled employees, and 50,000 for
refugees. Visas for brothers and sisters and adult children of immigrants were
eliminated, as they were for unskilled workers. The commission did not recommend
a temporary guest worker program.

Some immigration opponents may use the commission's reductions to argue for a
complete moratorium on immigration, but the members are not saying anything of
the sort. They may not be saying it clearly enough, but here it is: Our three
national priorities in immigration -- family reunification, economic needs, and
protection for persecuted foreigners -- can be fully accommodated with 550,000
annual visas.

The commission plainly sees no compelling need to include related adults or
unskilled immigrants who might compete with low-income Americans for jobs.

Here are some questions to ask about these recommendations: Would the ban on
adult relatives who wish to immigrate merely turn them into illegal immigrants?
Would there be enough workers to fill unskilled jobs? Are we giving up on Emma
Lazarus' "huddled masses yearning to breathe free," as the famous inscription on
the Statue of Liberty puts it? Does a country need "new blood"?

There's no shortage of other immigration-reform ideas out there that range from
changing nothing to admitting only immigrants from Europe and English speakers.

To gain credibility, supporters of such ideas must go beyond rhetoric and match
the serious study of the Jordan commission.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 18, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FUTURE LOST FATHER'S MISTAKE WHILE TRYING TO SAVE HIS FAMILY MAY NOW DESTROY
THEM

BYLINE: SANDY KLEFFMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1360 words


IT LOOKED LIKE the school year would end on an incredibly high note for the
Mayer girls of Fremont.

Hard work and determination had placed Fahima in the top four students at
Walters Junior High, and earned Nasima a 3.9 grade point average and Wasima a
3.6 GPA at Kennedy High. Pretty impressive, their teachers say, considering the
three Afghan refugees have been in America only two years and still struggle
sometimes with English.

Fahima was to be honored June 8 at the school's awards ceremony, but she never
made it. Neither did Nasima and Wasima show up for their final exams.

They had just learned they would soon be deported.

The girls' father, Yacob Mayer, and their 29-year-old sister, Zeada, were
abruptly arrested the day of the honors ceremony and jailed after an immigration
judge denied the family's request for political asylum. The rest of the family
remains at home. The family could be expelled from the country as early as
Tuesday.

The decision has terrified the girls and angered some Fremont teachers. It also
worries members of the East Bay Afghan community, who fear the family will be
murdered or the girls will be kidnapped or raped in the war-torn country.

"To see a family that can be such a positive factor within society be denied
that opportunity because of legal technicalities - I'm incredibly upset,
perturbed, frustrated and angry at the injustice of it all," said Clyde Mann,
Fahima's science teacher.

"These kids here - we're looking at Ivy League material," he said. "I've never
had a student as good as Fahima."

Eighteen-year-old Wasima summed up her feelings simply: "It's better for me to
die than to go back to Afghanistan."

Ironic tragedy

Immigrant rights advocates call the Mayers' story both tragic and ironic. Judge
Lawrence DiCostanzo denied them asylum after it was proved in court that the
father lied on his application. Instead of revealing that they lived in Germany
for five years before arriving in the United States in March 1993, Mayer
insisted that he and his family fled directly from Afghanistan to America.

The irony is that the family probably would have been granted political asylum
in the United States if Mayer had been forthright about what happened and why,
said his former attorney, Nancy Hormachea.

Now she fears the entire family will suffer as a result.

"I'm very troubled about the future of the women in this case because I feel
they are facing mistreatment if they return to Afghanistan," Hormachea said. "I
don't think the women were free to tell the truth. They had to abide by whatever
decisions were made by the father, and those were very unfortunate decisions."

Amnesty International reports that scores of young women in Afghanistan have
been abducted, raped, taken as wives by commanders or sold into prostitution.

Mayer, interviewed at Alameda County's Santa Rita Jail, said Afghan associates
in the United States told him he should lie to improve the chances of gaining
asylum.

"I don't blame the American people," he said in Farsi, speaking through an
interpreter. "We are criminals no doubt, but we were misled and misdirected. I
am only proud that I haven't received any government money at all here. We, the
family, have worked and survived and were hoping to obtain a residency and prove
our honors of being worthy of this free world. But the mistake is already made .
. ."

Nicholas Rizza of Amnesty International said there is little his organization
can do to assist the Mayers because "the INS is not acting unreasonably in
denying them asylum" in light of Mayer's falsehoods.

Not giving up

Some family friends, however, refuse to give up.

Ghulam Nasir, a Bay Area resident and former civil engineering professor at
Kabul University, said that an attorney has agreed to file an appeal on the
Mayers' behalf by the 5 p.m. Monday deadline.

That could buy the family a few more weeks or months until the case is heard by
the Board of Immigration Appeals. The family's former attorney, however, is
pessimistic.

"I don't see any way that any legal action is going to change the outcome on
this case," said Hormachea, who stopped representing Mayer after she found out
he lied about living in Germany and his asylum request was denied.

If no appeal is filed, the U.S. Immigration Service would begin making
arrangements Tuesday to deport them, said District Director Thomas Schiltgen.

The Mayers' saga began in 1988 when they fled to Pakistan and paid smugglers the
equivalent of $5,000 for each family member to get them into the United States,
said Mayer's wife, Shafiqa, also speaking through an interpreter. Besides the
four daughters, the Mayers have a 35-year-old son, Aref, who is severely
mentally disabled.

Mayer, who headed a furniture makers union in Afghanistan, had been organizing
demonstrations in support of the pro-Soviet government and encouraging people to
oppose mujahedeen forces, he said. But he could see signs that the mujahedeen
were starting to gain power and decided it was time to flee.

"There was fighting going on - we saw rockets going over our house," Nasima
recalled. "A home by us was shot by a rocket. All our windows were broken. We
were very afraid."

The smugglers told the Mayers they would be routed to the United States via
Germany. When they arrived in Germany, a problem developed, and the smugglers
disappeared. The family was stranded in Frankfurt.

They eventually applied for political asylum in Germany but were denied. While
that decision was under appeal, they decided to flee to the United States
because of rising anti-immigrant sentiment in Germany.

An anti-immigrant group tied a young Sri Lankan boy to the train tracks in
Germany so his foot would be chopped off "as a demonstration to show us and the
other refugees," Mayer said.

"We were afraid the same thing would happen to us," said Fahima, crying at the
memory. "People said they would burn our house and kidnap us."

Seeking safety

To get to the United States, the Mayers once again hooked up with smugglers, who
told them that they all would have to change their names and state that they
were en route from Pakistan to the United States rather than living in Germany.
The smugglers furnished them with fake passports with their new identities.

They arrived in New York and immediately applied for political asylum, claiming
to have just come from Afghanistan. They moved to Fremont because they heard
there was a large Afghan community here.

The father and eldest daughter have been supporting the family over the past two
years. Mayer has been working odd carpentry and gardening jobs and buying items
at garage sales, fixing them up and reselling them at flea markets. Zeada has
been working two jobs - from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. at a Target store, then 5 p.m. to
11 p.m. at a Wendy's restaurant.

That made it possible for her younger sisters to concentrate on their studies.

Everything seemed to be going smoothly, especially when another Afghan family
befriended them and offered advice on American life. The Mayers in turn shared
their past experiences. But later, the two families became embroiled in a heated
dispute when the other family wanted their son to marry Zeada and the Mayers
refused. In retaliation, the other family wrote a letter to the INS saying Mayer
lied on his application for asylum.

Mayer will be in danger from both sides if he returns to Afghanistan, said
family friend Nasir. The mujahedeen will be angry because he opposed them before
he left, and the communists may view him as a traitor because he fled to the
West when they were in power. The girls may be targeted because with their short
hair, they will clearly be identifiable as Westerners, he said.

Shafiqa breaks down in tears at the thought of what might happen to her family.

"Do whatever you want to do to me - but I know my daughters would be crucified
in Afghanistan," she said. "I'm not a smuggler. I'm not a liar. I did not come
here to rob this country. I came over here to survive, to raise these precious
things that God has given me - they have the right to live and have an
education."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA - MERCURY NEWS
Shafiqa Mayer, second from the left, sits with her son, Aref, and her daughters
Fahima, Wasima and Nasima in their living room in Fremont. Her husband, Yacob,
and another daughter, Zeada, are in jail.
[950618 SP 28A 4; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 4, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEBITS AND CREDITS OF THE UNDOCUMENTED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6P

LENGTH: 459 words


I accept the proposal of David Fazo ("How deep is the commitment of Prop. 187
foes," Letters, Nov. 30) to receive a surcharge on my tax bill for the annual
cost to the government for providing services to undocumented aliens. But I
accept only if I, along with others who accept the responsibility, receive the
benefits.

This means that only we, the compassionate, would receive a reduction in the
cost of food that we put on our tables everyday. Those who prefer the proposed
tax savings would pay a proportionate increase of the cost to harvest the fields
and process the food until it finally reaches our tables.

At restaurants, only we with compassion would receive a reduced check that
reflects the lower cost of kitchen help, while those who prefer the proposed
lower tax bill would pay a greater amount.

We the compassionate would be the only ones to pay less for virtually every
service that we the documented citizens of California receive as a result of the
work of our undocumented brothers and sisters.

Finally, I suggest we take Fazo's recommendation one step further. How about
crediting those with compassion with the taxes paid by undocumented workers
since we will be footing the bill for the annual cost to government for services
provided to them.

What makes more sense is returning the taxes taken out of the checks of
undocumented workers to them. This is only fair, since with the passage of
Proposition 187, they will receive no benefits for the taxes they are paying. --
Alfredo M. Morales

San Jose

You can't get to know

a serial killer

I was struck by comments by "experts" in criminal psychology in the article on
the Jeffrey Dahmer murder (Nov. 29).

Dr. Park Dietz was quoted as saying "I liked the man," and "We'd sit watching
his favorite movies, stopping frame by frame to talk about what got him
excited."

This type of exploitation for publicity and profit in the name of research is
what exposes criminal psychology as pseudo-science. Another expert, James Alan
Fox (dean of criminal justice at Northeastern) says, "Not all serial killers are
sociopaths." Really?

We appear to have a problem with definitions. For me and most of the public,
being a serial killer would define sociopathy. Does Fox feel that some serial
killers commit their murders for good reasons or have a lot of remorse? If he
believes that, he has committed the cardinal error many commit when faced with
sociopaths, namely, faced with a convincing liar, they believe them.

I am nauseated by experts who spend hours learning to like someone who killed 17
young boys and ate their body parts. No amount of pseudo- intellectual research
into Dahmer will ever yield useful information to me.

-- Dr. David E. Safir

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 26, 1994 Tuesday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

MOUNTAIN VIEW GROUP TO OFFER PROPOSALS ON DAY WORKERS

BYLINE: DAVID W. CHEN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 554 words


For the second time in 13 months, a Mountain View task force on day laborers has
concluded that someone should establish a job training center for documented and
undocumented workers, who now line El Camino Real looking for work.

But who that someone might be, where the money might come from and whether the
center is even feasible remains to be seen.

Tonight , the Day Worker Task Force will formally present its recommendations to
the Mountain View City Council in the latest attempt to get the day laborers off
the streets in a manner agreeable to all sides in the long-running controversy.

"I think it's a good start," said Tom Pamilla, executive director of the
Community Services Agency of Mountain View and Los Altos. "In police work or
social work in general, the more we know about the people we serve and come in
contact with, the better off we are."

The 10-member task force, which includes social workers, government officials
and business interests, will ask the city to form a regional committee to
establish the center and identify potential funding sources. The city itself
won't be one of them, because of a state law that requires local governments
providing job training services to verify an individual's legal status.

The task force also will push for medical services, English as a Second Language
training, information referral services and job training exercises. In addition,
it will urge the Mountain View Police Department to be more culturally sensitive
and refrain from subscribing to stereotypes like "Latinos are gang members or .
. . do not speak English," according to the report.

That's a little different from last year, when a similar task force met
informally and agreed that a job center be established. But no formal proposals
were tendered to the city council, and the idea was not pursued until earlier
this year, when the Immigration and Naturalization Service launched another wave
of raids.

For years, INS' immigration enforcement against the laborers who gather at El
Camino Real and San Antonio Road has been a bone of contention. On one side of
the controversy are the business owners who say the men scare off customers by
littering, spitting and urinating. The merchants are joined by the Save Mountain
View Coalition, a group founded last summer to oppose illegal immigration.

The Save Mountain View Coalition was invited to join the task force but
declined, according to several task force members. Kenneth Record, the group's
spokesman, could not be reached for comment late Monday afternoon.

On the other side are advocates for immigrants who say the men are just trying
to support their families. Hispanic residents say their children now fear the
police because they've watched police officers help immigration agents.

In April, the INS promised Hispanic activists in Mountain View that it would
ease up on its day laborer sweeps so that local groups could try to resolve the
problem.

"We need to do a lot more work," said Reynaldo Herrera of Latinos Unidos de
Mountain View. "Now it's up to the city council to keep things moving; otherwise
things will go backward."
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Day Worker Task Force Report will be presented during the Mountain View City
Council meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in City Hall, 500 Castro St.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 7, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIGRANT WORKERS GET COMFORTABLE QUARTERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Juana Diaz misses her lush vegetable garden and washing her family's laundry by
hand.

"Clothes don't get as clean in a machine," Diaz said, shaking her head as she
sat on her children's bed in their two-bedroom apartment.

But her family's home now has wall-to-wall carpeting, a bathroom with running
water and a refrigerator that keeps food cold. Compared with their previous life
in a migrant camp, their lifestyle is luxurious.

They moved in October from El Rancho de los Diablos, the largest migrant camp in
San Diego County. Residents, many illegal immigrants from rural Mexico, lived in
cardboard shacks without running water and electricity until the camp was razed
by the city. Landowners wanted their property back, and officials were concerned
about unsanitary living conditions.

Rancho de los Diablos and other such camps scattered throughout California were
the only place immigrants earning minimum wage or less could afford. To earn
their salaries -- a portion of which often goes back home to relatives in Mexico
-- they pick strawberries, haul cement at construction sites and wash dishes in
restaurants.

Barriers to renting

Because many are in the United States illegally, they cannot pass the credit
checks or afford the hefty deposits that moving into a rental often requires.
"They just need help getting started," said Jennifer LeSar, director of
Esperanza, a community service group that coordinated last fall's relocation of
camp residents.

The Diaz family escaped the camp, thanks to a $518,000 grant from the city of
San Diego. At one time, 700 men, women and children lived in the rugged
settlement.

"They have done remarkably well making the transition from camp living to urban
apartment living," said the Rev. Rafael Martinez, who has worked closely with
the migrant camp residents.

"Most of these people never lived in an apartment," Martinez said. "They might
have lived in a private house, but they were not in an urban area."

Legal resident

Juana and her husband, Rogelio Diaz Torrez, came to the United States from
Mexico in search of work. Rogelio, 25, is a legal resident; Juana, 27, has
applied for residency.

They and their two children, Maribel, 2, and Rogelio Jr., 4, share their
apartment with Juana's mother, Concepcion Alarcon, 56. Their low-income
neighborhood was once home to Vietnamese refugees who relocated to the United
States after the Vietnam War.

The Diazes pay half the $700 monthly rent on their apartment, and the Esperanza
group pays the remainder.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 14, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REALITY CHECK: JUDGING CAMPAIGN ADS

BYLINE: Compiled by Mercury News Staff Writer Barry Witt.

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 178 words


An analysis of campaign

commercials.

These charges are made in

television ads now being aired in

the Bay Area.

...

Michael Huffington

Republican candidate for U.S.

Senate

(box)What's the claim? In a

television ad, Huffington says his

opponent, Democratic Sen. Dianne

Feinstein, "ordered San Francisco

police not to report illegal aliens, making the city a sanctuary, a safe haven
-- in defiance of federal immigration law" when she was mayor.

(box)Is it true? The claim is factual but overstated. In 1985, Feinstein signed
a symbolic "City of Refuge" resolution to protest the federal government's
refusal to accept Salvadorans and Guatemalans as political refugees, despite
civil wars raging in their countries. It stated that city employees, which
include police, "shall not jeopardize the safety and welfare of law-abiding
refugees by acting in a way that may cause their deportation." The resolution
did not deal with illegal aliens from any other countries. Federal law does not
require those who know of illegal aliens to report them.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 5, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PETE WILSON THE SURVIVOR IS HELPED BY BIG NUMBERS

BYLINE: GEORGE WILL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: San Diego


IT'S A BIG state, so many numbers are bound to be big, but still: In this year's
first half, Californians made 332,000 legal gun purchases, a 6 percent increase
over the same period last year, a year when California gun sales soared 19
percent. This is one reason why Gov. Pete Wilson would be smiling promiscuously
were he not parsimonious with smiles. He is not happy about the anxieties
driving gun sales, but he is one of the nation's most seasoned politicians and
he knows when issues are breaking his way.

The issues dominating California's gubernatorial campaign, crime and illegal
immigration, are considered by many voters to be a single issue, the latter
being part of the former. Wilson says California this year will spend $400
million incarcerating illegals who commit crimes, not to mention -- although he
is not loath to mention -- $400 million on the medical costs of illegals' babies
and $1.7 billion to educate illegals' children, and other expenses totaling
about 10 percent of California's budget.

During a long lunch here recently he spoke with what was, for him, notable
animation and vehement conservatism about "idiotically lenient laws," his
opponent's reticence, until recently, about crime, and her opposition to capital
punishment. As a veteran Republican operative says, state Treasurer Kathleen
Brown has two problems she can do nothing about -- she's a woman and she's not
governor.

Arguably it may be easier to elect women to legislatures than governorships
(California's senators are both women), and women do best when "compassion"
rather than "crackdown" issues predominate. Crime and illegal immigration are
crackdown issues. Furthermore, a stereotype of softness is reinforced when a
woman is a Democrat. Wilson seems about as soft as your average ex-Marine.

People known for veracity swear they have seen Wilson relaxed, even playful, but
mostly his demeanor reminds one that his first California residence was Camp
Pendleton Marine Base. By 1966, he was elected to the state Legislature. In
1971, he began 12 years as this city's mayor. Elected to the U.S. Senate in 1982
and re-elected in 1988, he was dragooned by Republicans into running for
governor in 1990.

Three statewide races in eight years in a state with 13 media markets (including
the nation's costliest, Los Angeles) is an ordeal of fund- raising that marks
the survivor as, well, a survivor. That fact was forgotten by people who counted
Wilson out when the recession, deepened here by defense cuts, and tax increases
reduced his job approval rating to 15 percent.

His resuscitation has been helped by a calamity, the "seismic stimulus" of the
Northridge earthquake that shook $9.5 billion out of Congress and generated jobs
repairing highways and 21,000 damaged housing units. Now he is being helped by a
man-made phenomenon of big numbers.

In 1992, Michael Huffington doubled the previous congressional campaign spending
record, sinking $5.2 million of his inherited oil money into winning a seat in
the House of Representatives. He immediately hit the ground running -- for the
other wing of the Capitol. He is trying to unseat Sen. Dianne Feinstein, to
which end he had by June 30 spent $9.5 million, all but $300,000 of it his
money.

This helps Wilson by forcing Feinstein to compete with Brown for Democratic
money, and by adding to the broadcast clutter -- in September, O.J.'s trial will
add even more -- that makes it hard for Brown to get her message out.

If Wilson is still governor in 1996, a place for him on the GOP national ticket
is possible. Because Democratic presidential candidates have such troubles
carrying much of the South and West, including Texas and Florida (57 electoral
votes), they can hardly get 270 without California's 54. Yet no Democratic
ticket has ever included a Californian. Eight of the last 12 Republican tickets
have, beginning with Gov. Earl Warren for vice president in 1948.

Not all numbers here are large. Two weeks ago a Field Poll found just 38 percent
of Californians "inclined to re-elect" President Clinton.

Most of the -- one more big number -- 121,000 earthquakes the U.S. Geological
Survey has recorded since 1987 in Southern California have been small, but
almost all the political tremors from this state are big enough to shake the
nation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
George Will is a Washington Post columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 7, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE GETTING $33.5 MILLION FOR PRISONS IT'S FIRST FEDERAL PAYMENT TOWARD COSTS
FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. SNIFFEN, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: Washington


Seven states that together imprison more than 20,000 illegal immigrants will
share the first $42.9 million in federal aid to pay those prison costs, Attorney
General Janet Reno announced Thursday.

California will get the largest share of the first distribution, $33.46 million.
An Urban Institute study done for the Justice Department found that California
has more than 70 percent of the incarcerated illegal immigrants. The study was
used to allocate the first round of aid.

In Sacramento, Sean Walsh, a spokesman for Gov. Pete Wilson, described the
promised payment to California as "a drop in the bucket" that will cover just 20
days of the annual cost of housing 19,100 illegal immigrant felons in
California's prisons.

"The state will spend $475 million this year to incarcerate illegal immigrant
felons," Walsh said. "That's on top of the $1.6 billion capital costs that we
expend for illegal immigrant incarceration."

"Were it not for Gov. Wilson's relentless pursuit of the federal government,
including the president and Congress," he added, "we would not see even this
small sum of $33 million."

Over the past year and a half, California, Texas, Arizona, Florida, New York and
New Jersey have sued the federal government for reimbursement for their
expenditures on jailing, educating or providing services for illegal immigrants.

Those states and Illinois comprise the seven states getting the first
reimbursements. They account for more than 85 percent of the illegal immigrants
in state prisons, Reno said.

Illegal immigration and its costs have become major issues in Wilson's hotly
contested re-election battle. Reno has traded several pointed letters about
reimbursement with Wilson, a Republican.

The crime bill recently signed by President Clinton provides $1.8 billion over
six years to help states with the prison costs. Of that, $130 million has been
appropriated for this fiscal year. The $42.9 million represents the first third;
the rest will come next fall.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 18, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAXATION WITHOUT JUSTIFICATION UNDER PROP. 187

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 298 words


I was trying to explain to my friend the merits of Proposition 187, but he just
didn't get it.

"If we positively identify certain people as illegals," he insisted, "why can't
we just deport them?"

"You don't understand the system," I continued patiently. "If we deport all our
illegals, who will work in the fields for minimum wage from sunup to sundown in
broiling summer sun and cold foggy winters? What will happen to agribusiness
profits and the price of fruits and vegetables? Where will we get our low-paid
nannies, gardeners and day laborers? How can we compete with Texas without a
supply of cheap labor?"

"Well, then," my friend asked, "why can't we use the card?"

"What card?"

"The illegal immigrant card. Once we've kicked these bums off the welfare rolls,
turned their children out of school and onto the streets, refused to give them
immunizations and medical care, we give them the illegal immigrant card. This
will excuse them from paying sales tax when they buy a pair of shoes, a tank of
gas, or a package of razor blades. It would also give them a rent reduction for
the property tax their landlord won't have to pay on their home." "Why would we
do a dumb thing like that?"

"Wasn't this country founded on the principle of 'no taxation without
representation'? Illegal immigrants can't vote, so how can we ask them to pay
taxes, especially if they get no benefits from their tax money? Didn't we fight
a revolutionary war about that? Didn't you and I read all about it in elementary
school? Or have we forgotten already?"

At this point I gave up trying to talk sense with my friend.

I don't want to cast doubt on the wisdom of Proposition 187. But we do have to
watch people like my friend. They ask too many questions.

-- Burt Liebert

Palo Alto

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 30, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AD CAMPAIGN ALLEGES NON-CITIZEN VOTING FALLOUT: RADIO SPOTS INVITE LISTENERS TO
PROVIDE EVIDENCE.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


The co-author of Proposition 187 has launched a radio ad campaign contending
widespread voting by illegal immigrants tainted California's Nov. 8 election.
The ads are partly financed by Republican Senate candidate Michael Huffington,
who blames voting by illegal immigrants for his narrow loss to Sen. Dianne
Feinstein.

"There has been voting by non-citizens," Harold Ezell, a Proposition 187 leader,
said Tuesday. "We have affidavits from non-citizens who said they did vote. We
have enough evidence to prove a total breakdown in the (voting) system in
California."

Ezell and Huffington haven't provided any proof of voting by non-citizens.

"There is not a scintilla of evidence presented with respect to voter fraud,"
said acting Secretary of State Tony Miller, the state's top elections officer.
"We have not found any evidence whatsoever that people voted illegally."

Miller, who lost his own election race, said his office was investigating the
allegations.

Proposition 187, which Huffington supported, denies public schooling, health
care and social services to illegal immigrants. The emotional issue was
overwhelmingly passed by voters.

The radio ads says: "There is evidence the recent election of California was
riddled with illegal alien voting and absentee voter fraud." It asks listeners
who "know of suspicious activity" to call an 800 number.

The commercial is running in Los Angeles, San Diego, Kern, Fresno and Sacramento
counties. All have large Hispanic populations. The ads are financed by Americans
Against Illegal Immigration, a pro-Proposition 187 group that Ezell helped
found.

Huffington has declined to concede defeat and has said -- most recently on
"Larry King Live" -- that fraudulent voting cost him the election.

"There have been multiple ballots cast by the same person. There have been
fictitious addresses of voters," Huffington said Monday night on King's show.
Huffington spent more than $27 million of his own money on his losing race.
Huffington has not initiated a legal action. Ezell said he was awaiting the
release of computer tapes from the Los Angeles registrar of voters that contain
the names of people who voted. The tapes will help determine how many ballots
were illegally cast, Ezell said.

Registrar spokeswoman Marcia Ventura said the tapes were being compiled and were
not yet available. They are expected to be released next month. The books signed
by voters when they enter a precinct on election day are available for public
viewing, she added.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 12, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

Q&A ON THE NEWS

BYLINE: Today's column was written by Karl Kahler, with contributions, from
Esther Schrader of the Mercury News Mexico City bureau.

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 259 words


Q Would the children of an American living illegally in Mexico be entitled to
free schooling? Would they be able to get free medical care?

Walter Wallis, Palo Alto

A No, according to Mexican government officials -- although the laws preventing
it are easy to get around in Mexico.

To enroll in school, Mexican children are supposed to show a Mexican birth
certificate. To be treated free at a hospital, Mexicans must be members of the
Social Security system, available through their workplace. Employers are not
supposed to give such credentials without a Mexican birth certificate.

Nevertheless, heavy traffic in false documents assures that Mexico's expanding
population of illegal immigrants -- by far mostly Central Americans -- is often
served anyway.

Q In what subject and from what university did Newt Gingrich get his Ph.D. ?
What was the title of his thesis? At what university did he teach and what were
the subjects?

Marvin Kohn, San Jose

A Gingrich, who will be House speaker in the 104th Congress, received a
doctorate in European history from Tulane University in New Orleans in 1971.

His doctoral dissertation was titled "Belgian Education Policy in the Congo,
1945-1960." According to an aide, Gingrich was advised that if he wanted to go
into politics he should focus on the Third World, which was a hot topic during
the Cold War and the Vietnam War.

He taught courses in history, environmental studies and the future at West
Georgia College in Carrollton, Ga., from 1970 to 1978, when he was elected to
Congress.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 348 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 10, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FLORIDANS BACK CURBS ON ILLEGAL ENTRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 75 words


An overwhelming number of Florida residents support a proposed California- style
amendment that would limit school, health and social services for illegal
immigrants, according to a new poll. Of 800 residents statewide questioned by
WLTV, a Spanish-language station in Miami, some 73 percent said they would
support a referendum to deny government services to illegal immigrants. The poll
showed broad support among both Republicans and Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
