
                               1 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 29, 2000 Tuesday

STATE IMMIGRATION LAW CRITICIZED;
ADVOCATES WORRY RULES WILL AFFECT LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Patrick Howe, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 264 words


Before it has even taken effect, a new Minnesota law is drawing criticism from
federal officials and local immigrant advocates.

The law will require state and county workers who handle benefit requests to
report people they believe are illegal aliens to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Advocates worry that the law, which takes effect July 2001, will deter even
legal immigrants from seeking needed health care or applying for benefits to
which they are entitled.

"Picture the case of an undocumented mother who is applying for benefits for her
son who is a citizen," said Michele Garnett McKenzie, a staff attorney with
Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights. "Her status should not be in question
because she's not the one applying for the benefits. But mistakes get made. If
she's asked about her status, she could be reported."

Federal officials are also asking questions.

Darlene Howard, an investigator for the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services' Office of Civil Rights, said she is concerned about the law.

Howard questioned how workers in county offices, dealing with people who speak
little or no English, can be sure someone is an illegal alien.

"I am concerned," Howard said. "Questions could be answered and vastly
misunderstood."

The law was passed during the most recent legislative session after it was
attached to a broad spending bill.

"As far as people losing benefits, they shouldn't be receiving them in the first
place if they're not entitled to them," said the law's author, state Rep. Linda
Boudreau, R-Faribault.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        July 9, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

TAKE A STAND AGAINST DRIVING PRIVILEGES FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 774 words


America can be a weird place. In most countries around the world, the idea would
be to drive out illegal immigrants. In the United States, we're busy coming up
with ideas to help illegal immigrants drive.

Who could have predicted that one of the hot issues this election year would be
whether undocumented immigrants should get driver's licenses?

In Florida, the idea was backed by Gov. Jeb Bush. It might have become law had
legislation not been withdrawn amid concerns that it weakened security.

In Tennessee, officials intent on keeping track of foreigners are handing out
"driving certificates" to immigrants as long as they have permanent residency.
The cards say: "For driving purposes only. Not valid for identification."

In California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger suggested putting a distinguishing
mark on driver's licenses given to illegal immigrants. That raised the ire of
Jewish groups, who have seen this sort of thing before.

Now the issue has popped up in the presidential campaign -- as John Kerry's
"Sister Souljah." You remember the black female rapper whom Bill Clinton made a
point of scolding in 1992 in what seemed to be a contrived attempt to convince
voters that he was in the political center.

Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat whom Republicans want to portray as more liberal
than Teddy Kennedy, seems to be doing the same thing with the driver's license
issue.

Asked recently by Telemundo, the Spanish-language television network, if he
supported giving licenses to illegal immigrants, Kerry said no, of course not.
The likely Democratic nominee called it "wrong" to give illegal immigrants --
especially those who have been in the United States only a short time -- "all
the rights and privileges" enjoyed by those who are here legally. He also seemed
to hedge by saying that the government "may work something out" for people who
have been here for a longer period but only as part of a broader reform of the
immigration system.

Those comments might score a few points with those who consider it outrageous
that some states would even think about giving driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants. There are those who see having a driver's license as a privilege
that should be reserved for people who have a legal right to be in this country.
Just as there are those who fear that we could put the nation at risk by giving
illegal immigrants the equivalent of an all-access pass.

Neither argument sells me. There's nothing sacred about driver's licenses. And
there's a big difference between immigrants and terrorists. There's a better
reason to oppose this trend: We shouldn't get into the habit of accepting
behavior that we consider wrong or destructive -- such as illegal immigration --
just because there's so much of it going on.

If Americans have indeed made up their minds that violating immigration laws is
wrong -- and I'm not always sure they have -- they ought to draw the line and
not tolerate any more of it. That means leveling heavy fines against, and even
locking up, those who employ illegal immigrants. It doesn't mean trying to
accommodate employers by making sure immigrants can drive themselves to work.

Sure, there are those who feel differently. They include leaders of the National
Council of La Raza, whose national conference Kerry had just addressed before
the interview. NCLR Vice President Cecilia Munoz told the Associated Press that
Kerry's hard-line against driver's licenses for illegal immigrants "somewhat
undercut" the positive reception he got from the organization.

Ah, if only that were true. The Democratic Party has gotten a free ride from the
Latino community, and that isn't likely to change in this election.

Besides, I've attended enough of these conferences to know that the audience is
typically made up of middle-class Mexican-Americans with deep roots in this
country who frankly couldn't care less whether illegal immigrants get driver's
licenses. I would bet that what the rank-and-file membership -- most of whom are
also Democrats -- really cares about is whether John Kerry can beat President
Bush.

Here's the answer: Not by doing more of this, he can't. I'm tired of political
gimmicks. And I'm really sick of Sister Souljah. Voters don't need to be
manipulated or massaged. What they need are serious and thoughtful candidates
who take principled stances and who can give detailed explanations of the
issues.

It doesn't look like Kerry did that in this case. And that should, uh, drive his
Latino supporters crazy.

Navarrette is an editorial columnist for the Dallas Morning News. E-mail him at
rnavarrette @dallasnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 23, 2003 Tuesday CITY EDITION

MINNESOTA RIDE, RALLY TO PRESS IMMIGRANTS' RIGHTS
GROUPS SEEKING AMNESTY FOR UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS

BYLINE: BRIAN BONNERPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 967 words


As a legal Mexican immigrant, Miguel Olvera-Rucoba said, he sleeps easy at
night. But the South St. Paul meatpacker knows plenty of people who work in this
nation illegally. He said they live in constant fear of deportation.

"They're never happy here. The person who is not legal does not feel comfortable
here," Olvera-Rucoba, 46, said in an interview translated from Spanish. "In
their minds, they're thinking any time they can get in trouble real easy."

During the next two weeks, Olvera-Rucoba will take time off from his job at
Dakota Premium to take up the cause of the nation's estimated 10 million
undocumented workers. The goals of the national Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride,
which Olvera-Rucoba will join Thursday in Minneapolis, include:

-- Amnesty for illegal workers as a first step toward U.S. citizenship.

-- Improved workplace conditions and respect for the civil rights of all,
regardless of legal status.

-- The ability of relatives abroad to join illegal workers living in this
country.

These goals face strong opposition. Among the critics, the Washington-based
Federation for American Immigration Reform (www.fairus.org) opposes amnesty for
illegal workers. The nonprofit group also favors tighter immigration limits and
tougher border controls.

"The question when we look at the whole idea is: Freedom from what? This
country's immigration laws?" asked FAIR spokesman David Ray. "What happened to
waiting your turn in line to immigrate legally? Here we have a group of illegal
aliens, knowingly and willingly violating our immigration laws and trying to
wrap themselves in the blanket of victimhood. It's outrageous."

Ray takes offense at the present-day riders' attempt to model their actions
after a revered tactic used in the 1960s civil rights movement. He doubts that
most Americans support legal status for people who knowingly break U.S.
immigration laws to enter the nation.

But Ray also said that major changes in immigration policy, such as mass
deportations, are unlikely. Too many groups have a vested interest in the status
quo. "It's a marriage made in heaven," Ray said. "Unions get members, Democrats
get voters and Republicans get cheap workers."

The Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride (www.iwfr.org) is organized by a coalition of
labor unions, civil rights groups and clergy. Some 800 riders from 10 cities,
including Minneapolis, will participate.

The ride ends with a rally Oct. 4 in Flushing Meadows Park, in Queens, N.Y. It
includes stops in Washington, D.C., and dozens of other cities. The Minneapolis
send-off will take place at 5:30 p.m. Thursday in Powderhorn Park. About 80
people are expected to board two buses locally.

People on either side of the issue seem to agree about what is happening in
America: Millions of undocumented workers hold down some of the lowest-paying
and most undesirable jobs. These workers, who are vulnerable to exploitation,
can be found in meatpacking plants, in restaurants and hotels, in stores and in
big companies.

Three years ago, organized labor did an about-face on illegal immigrants. Unions
previously viewed open immigration policies and illegal workers as a threat to
the jobs and wages of law-abiding Americans. Now, led by the AFL-CIO, unions
view undocumented workers as an opportunity to bolster their ranks.

"We don't care if they have a green card; we just care if they have a union
card," said Bernie Hesse, special projects organizer of the United Food and
Commercial Workers Local 789 in South St. Paul. The union local represents about
8,000 workers in groceries, nursing homes, factories and meatpackers, including
the Dakota Premium plant where Olvera-Rucoba works.

Raphael Espinosa, another UFCW Local 789 representative, said labor unions
sometimes are the only organizations that help undocumented workers. Many U.S.
employers look the other way when hiring, he said, and many of these workers
seek union membership as a defense against workplace exploitation.

Espinosa admits that many UFCW members would benefit from an amnesty that gives
them legal status. "I think that the biggest problem people want resolved is
family reunification," Espinosa said. "They're working here, but their families
are still in Mexico. Even for somebody with a work permit or a green card,
reunification is still really tough to do."

Illegal workers are unlikely to step forward and take up their own cause.

"For somebody who doesn't have documents right now, the first thing they're not
doing is being visible. They're invisible -- doing their jobs and going home,"
Espinosa said. "The environment right now is really against them. In a lot of
places, especially in places that don't have unions, they are being taken
advantage of."

Even illegal residents need to show some kind of identification documents to be
hired, Espinosa said, even if the documents are of questionable validity.

"They're not very good documents," Espinosa said. "As long as they have
documents, the company can say, 'They showed me this.' That's how they get away
with hiring a lot of undocumented workers. Some corporations have become so
dependent on the undocumented labor force that there's no way they will allow
raids or arrests to happen."

Olvera-Rucoba thinks that illegal workers will remain in limbo for years, a
victim of the nation's conflicting attitude toward their presence. But the
meatpacker's assessment of the political realities will not dissuade him from
what he views as a long-term campaign.

"I'm very excited to be joining the people," Olvera-Rucoba said. "I want to help
some other people who are not legal. I want to be part of it, even though I
don't think (amnesty) is going to happen for 10 or 15 years."

Brian Bonner can be reached at bbonner@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCOTT TAKUSHI, PIONEER PRESS

"The person who is not legal, does not feel comfortable here" says Miguel
Olvera-Rucoba, a legal immigrant and South St. Paul meaatpacker. He's among 80
people from Minesota who plan to participate in the national Immigrant workers
Freedom Ride.

GRAPHIC: PIONEER PRESS GRAPHIC:

Imigrant Workers Freedom Ride

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      October 24, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

FBI RAIDS WAL-MART FOR ILLEGAL WORKERS
STORE EXECS KNEW CONTRACT FIRMS BROKE THE LAW, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: DINA ELBOGHDADY and GREG SCHNEIDER, Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 909 words


Federal immigration officials raided Wal-Mart stores across the country
Thursday, arresting 250 cleaning-crew workers they suspect of being illegal
aliens.

The raids, at 61 stores in 21 states, were part of an investigation into whether
the world's largest retailer or its subcontractors knowingly hired illegal
immigrants, the officials said.

The workers were employed by one or many of the 110 contractors that perform
cleaning services in more than 700 of the retailer's nearly 3,000 U.S. stores, a
Wal-Mart spokeswoman said.

Federal law enforcement personnel, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said
recordings of meetings with contractors show that some Wal-Mart executives knew
about the immigration violations.

Immigration agents also searched the office of one manager at the Bentonville,
Ark., headquarters of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and carried away boxes of paperwork,
officials said.

No raids were conducted in Minnesota or Wisconsin.

If the discount chain is found to have known about the workers' illegal status,
it could be fined up to $10,000 per worker, said Garrison Courtney, a spokesman
for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, the largest investigative
arm of the Department of Homeland Security.

Suzanne Haney, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the company has "seen no evidence
from (the government) that anyone from Wal-Mart was involved in any scheme
involving illegal workers."

Wal-Mart has initiated its own internal investigation into the matter and plans
to cooperate fully with investigators, Haney added.

Mona Williams, another Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the company believes each of
its subcontractors uses only legal workers.

The workers rounded up Thursday were from a variety of places, including Eastern
Europe and central Mexico, Courtney said. It will be up to an immigration judge
to determine whether they face criminal charges and whether they will be
deported, he said.

Some immigration groups and labor officials blasted the arrests. Instead of
punishing the workers, they said, the government should be penalizing large
corporations, which tend to hire subcontractors for low-skill services to
distance themselves from responsibility for worker conditions and liability for
illegal hiring practices.

"It's one of the ways in which employers have insulated themselves at a time
when entire industries, particularly janitorial services, are dependent on
immigrant workers -- a large number of whom are undocumented," said Frank
Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum.

The raids come at a time when controversial workplace arrests had fallen
dramatically from their 1997 high of 17,500 to about 450 in 2002. And much of
the emphasis of immigration authorities now working for the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security is on fighting terrorism and criminal activity by immigrants
and U.S. citizens.

Cornell Law School professor Stephen Yale-Loehr said immigration authorities are
far too extended in their attack against immigrants involved in terrorism to
focus their budget on otherwise law-abiding janitors, he said.

In Washington, Rick Swartz, a veteran immigration activist, said the raids
should arouse political suspicions. "Enforcement goes on every day, but these
were in several cities and obviously designed to make headlines," Swartz said.

The investigation was triggered by a probe launched by the Pennsylvania attorney
general's office in 1998. A spokesman said only that the initial probe "started
as a money-laundering investigation."

Courtney said the agency routinely conducts such operations, but that only those
snaring a large number of people get public notice. Within the last year, he
said, ICE rooted out about 250 illegal workers at T.J. Maxx discount stores and
rounded up more than 40 landscapers at the U.S. Air Force Academy.

But the government's strategy of enforcing immigration laws in corporate America
was dealt a blow this year when a federal jury acquitted Tyson Foods and three
of its mangers of conspiring to bring illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central
America to work in the company's food processing plants.

Congress in 1986 made it a crime for businesses to knowingly employ illegal
immigrants and required employers to fill out paperwork on each employee's
status.

Since then, raids of the kind at the Wal-Mart stores have become less frequent,
said Jo Anne Adlerstein, an immigration lawyer at Proskauer Rose LLP.

"I don't think these government raids accomplish anything," she said. "I have no
recollection of seeing anything as expensive as a coordinated raid in 21 states"
like the one at Wal-Mart. "It's a waste of manpower."

Wal-Mart, which employs more than a million people in this country and 300,000
overseas, is not the first U.S. company to face immigration scrutiny. A
3-year-old lawsuit against several California supermarkets asserts that the
supermarkets and their cleaning subcontractors violated minimum wage and
overtime laws in using illegal immigrants to clean their floors.

The raided Wal-Mart stores were in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Connecticut,
Delaware, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.

The Los Angeles Times, New York Times, Cox News Service and Dallas Morning News
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 7, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

BUSH WILL REVIVE PROPOSAL TO OVERHAUL IMMIGRATION
CHANGE COULD AFFECT MINNESOTA, GROWING LATINO BASE

BYLINE: TODD NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 793 words


President Bush's proposal today to overhaul the nation's immigration laws could
help Minnesota meat processors and other employers gain the foreign workers they
need and ease their way to citizenship in a state that is home to a fast-growing
Latino population and an estimated 60,000 undocumented workers.

While details of the Bush proposal were sketchy, advocates said they welcome the
attention on immigration reform. Bush had considered easing immigration laws
shortly after taking office in 2001, but put the project on hold when the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks heightened concerns about border security.

Reforming immigration laws could serve national security and economic interests,
said Jorge Saavedra, chief legal officer of Centro Legal in St. Paul, which
provides legal services to needy Hispanics.

"The solutions, because they are so politically controversial, maybe are not
easy, but it's important we get this back on the public policy agenda for
debate," Saavedra said.

The value of undocumented labor in six Minnesota industries, including
construction, meat processing and hotels, was estimated at $1.56 billion in a
study released in September 2000 by Minneapolis-based nonprofit Hispanic
Advocacy and Community Empowerment Through Research.

James Kielkopf, who wrote the HACER study, said that while the number of
undocumented workers had continued growing since the study came out, the value
of their labor likely had not changed because of the economic slowdown.

Minnesota had one of the country's fastest-growing Latino populations in the
1990s, rising 166 percent to 143,000. The total was estimated at 159,000 in July
2002, according to census figures. People of Mexican origin accounted for
two-thirds of Minnesota's Latinos.

The state had an estimated 60,000 undocumented workers in 2000, according to
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services statistics. Immigration experts
estimate 8 million to 12 million foreigners are in the country illegally, with
about half believed to have come from Mexico.

"We need to create a system for immigrant workers to come to the United States
and fill this demand for labor without being a subclass of people, living in the
shadows or living in fear or getting exploited when we've enjoyed the fruits of
their labor," Saavedra said.

In a bid to end decades of restrictive immigration policies, Bush will call for
the creation of a guest-worker program that would open the borders to immigrants
seeking low-skilled, low-wage jobs. The plan is expected to include provisions
that would let illegal workers who already are here apply for legal status.

Past guest-worker programs have subjected immigrants to poor wages, unsafe
working conditions and other forms of exploitation, Saavedra said. Instead, the
United States should allow the workers to be free to seek out employers who
offer the best deal. He suggested allowing workers to enter the country on
time-limited visas for three to five years. If they comply with the law, pay
taxes and stay out of trouble, they should be allowed to apply for more
permanent status.

"I don't think you can close the door to citizenship," Saavedra said. "If we put
in a system that allows immigrants to demonstrate their allegiance to the
country and to demonstrate their contribution to their communities, then they
should be able to enjoy the benefits of citizenship or permanent resident
status."

That would acknowledge the workers and the contribution they have made to the
economy, said Claudia Fuentes, executive director of HACER.

"You can't walk by any building being built and not hear Spanish language
radio," Fuentes said. "I don't think that's because the workers want to learn
Spanish that way. Maybe this will take some of those invisible hands and
anonymous persons doing this work out of the shadows."

Bush's proposal has widespread support in the business community, especially
among industries that depend on foreign workers, such as restaurants,
agriculture and landscape services. Skeptics said the long-delayed White House
plan seemed to be timed to help Bush with Latino voters in the November
presidential election. It's also likely to improve Bush's relationship with
Mexican President Vicente Fox, who will host Bush's two-day visit to Mexico next
week.

Advocates on both sides said the outlook for congressional action would depend
on how hard Bush pushes the proposal.

Administration officials insisted that enhanced border security and other
changes since Sept. 11 have resolved security concerns about the proposed
immigration changes.

Washington Bureau reporter Ron Hutcheson contributed to this report.

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: On Page 1B: St. Paul mayor unveils initiatives for Latino community.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 9, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

BUSH'S IMMIGRANT WORK PLAN ENERGIZES DEBATE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 576 words


The vigorous reaction to President Bush's proposal on undocumented workers
demonstrates how powerful a president can be when he confronts major issues
rather than ducks them. Bush deserves credit for acknowledging that the
undocumented immigrant workforce is integral to the U.S. economy and that
deferral of immigration reforms isn't a reasonable option. Hints early in his
term on immigration reforms ended with the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that turned
Bush into a war president. The revival merits praise.

It's reasonable to note the obvious political calculation in returning to the
subject at the start of this election year. Bush's broad-brush proposal, if
enacted, would be a gift to businesses that like to employ immigrant labor. And
Bush's willingness to back even limited legal access to such jobs aims directly
at improving his standing with Latino voters.

But Bush is also daring to tread where conservative Republicans with strongly
held anti-immigrant sentiments will oppose their president. Think back to 1996
for a refresher course in how potent the anti-immigrant sentiment can be in
Republican politics. Presidential candidate Bob Dole was running on a platform
so anti-immigrant that it called for a constitutional amendment to deny U.S.
citizenship to children born here of undocumented immigrant parents. The same
Sept. 11 watershed that shut off progress on immigration reform made the issues
involved more complex. But what the president seems to be putting on the table
is the economic aspects, not the domestic security aspects of immigration policy
and enforcement. And he must also be well aware that Latinos are not a voting
bloc, but individuals and diverse communities of interest.

Because undocumented workers are by definition not part of the official social
systems of this country, it is impossible to count their numbers or demographic
profiles accurately. Estimates of undocumented immigrants range from 8 million
to 11 million. The Los Angeles Times estimates that more than 70 percent of
undocumented immigrants nationwide are from Mexico and more than 80 percent from
Latin America.

The Latino population, immigrant and native, is the fastest-growing segment of
the U.S. population. In the Upper Midwest as well as places with borders to
Mexico, the dynamism of these fast-increasing groups means that normalizing life
for all in Latino communities is a key issue. In Minnesota, the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Service estimates, people of Mexican origin account for
two-thirds of the Latino population, which doubled during the 1990s. The
immigration service estimates that 60,000 undocumented workers lived in the
state when the 2000 census was done. The story of Latino migration in Wisconsin
is similar. The 2000 census revealed Latino population growth more than doubled
in the 1990s -- to about 193,000 people.

Bush's guest worker proposal would help give all the workers -- documented,
native and undocumented -- transparent, legal access to the job market. Where
the proposal is most problematic, however, is in making the next step available
-- long-term legal residence and the path to American citizenship for the newly
classified guest workers. Immigration rights advocates are correct to criticize
this revolving-door mentality in the Bush plan.

But Bush has made a careful step that is re-energizing the debate and might move
immigration policy reform in a positive direction.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 1, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

DEMOCRATS OFFER THEIR VERSION OF IMMIGRATION REFORM PLAN

BYLINE: RICARDO ALONSO-ZALDIVAR, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 337 words


WASHINGTON -- Congressional Democrats, playing catch-up with President Bush's
guest worker proposal, plan to introduce an ambitious immigration reform bill
Tuesday that would put millions of illegal immigrants on the path to citizenship
but restrict the entry of future workers.

The Democratic plan would offer green cards and permanent resident status to all
immigrants who have been in the United States at least five years, can prove
they have worked at least 24 months and have passed background and medical
checks.

It also would loosen quotas that prevent many immigrants from bringing relatives
into the United States.

The Democrats' proposal, coupled with the Bush plan, would frame the
election-year debate on a politically sensitive issue. In many parts of the
country, and especially in swing states such as Florida and New Mexico, both
parties are courting immigrant constituencies.

The two proposals take sharply different approaches:

-- The Democrats would make it harder to import so-called "guest workers" but
would open the path to citizenship for illegal immigrants already in the
country.

-- Bush would allow illegal immigrants to become legal temporary workers, but
without a promise of green cards or citizenship.

The Los Angeles Times obtained a detailed summary of the Democratic bill, which
was drafted by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill.

It is an effort to recapture a traditionally Democratic issue from Bush, who got
out in front by proposing a new guest worker plan that would allow as many as 12
million now-illegal immigrants to obtain temporary legal status.

"It's political tit for tat," said Demetrios Papademetriou, president of the
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan Washington, D.C., think tank. "The
Democrats have been working on immigration for quite a while, and they cannot
afford to have the president one-up them on it."

Polls have shown that Latino voters, while skeptical, are receptive to Bush's
immigration plan.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     June 15, 2003 Sunday WISCONSIN EDITION

COUNTY JAILS HOUSING FEWER FEDERAL PRISONERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 270 words


The number of federal inmates in Wisconsin is dropping as federal immigration
officials shift their focus from finding illegal immigrants to investigating
reports of terrorist activities.

The average number of illegal immigrants detained in Wisconsin, Indiana and
Illinois has dropped this year from a high of 486 in March to a low of 397 on
May 27, said John Longshore, interim director of the federal Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services' Chicago district, which covers the three
states.

The number now is around 420.

The detainees are typically held in local county jails at federal expense while
they await trial or deportation, and the drop in arrests means a subsequent drop
in the amount of money for which jails are reimbursed.

Longshore did not know how many immigration inmates are currently held in the
five Wisconsin jails with contracts -- Dodge, Kenosha, Ozaukee, Walworth and
Waukesha counties.

In Ozaukee County, the number of immigration detainees has dropped to about 25,
compared with about 75 in March, Sheriff Maury Straub said.

That loss means the county might not meet its $1.7 million revenue projection
this year for housing federal inmates, Straub said.

"The whole focus of investigation has shifted from immigration cases to more
time-intensive terrorism investigations" since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks,
Longshore said.

If county jails remain less than full, officials could consider bringing back
some of the nearly 2,300 Wisconsin inmates held in Oklahoma and North Dakota
jails.

But those inmates don't pay as well as their federal counterparts.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE CORRECTIONS

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 7, 2002 Saturday

MINNEAPOLIS-ST. PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT: Eatery fined for hiring illegal
residents

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 331 words


A restaurant manager and his eatery have been fined $30,400 for hiring
unauthorized workers at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport and other
violations, federal immigration authorities reported Friday.

The total includes a $9,000 fine that Enbo Zhou, manager of Wok & Roll, must pay
as a criminal penalty for hiring people he knew lacked authorization to work,
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service reported. U.S. Magistrate Judge
Susan Nelson levied the fine in U.S. District Court. The offense is a
misdemeanor.

"This employer engaged in particularly egregious immigration law violations,"
said Curtis Aljets, district director of the INS office in Bloomington.

Zhou admitted hiring six illegal workers, INS spokesman Tim Counts said. He
declined to name their countries of origin, citing INS policy.

"It was the blatancy of Mr. Zhou hiring people he clearly knew were in the
country illegally," Counts said. "A lot of times, employers will try to explain
they didn't know someone was in the country illegally."

In this case, Zhou "had full knowledge of his responsibilities and full
knowledge the six were working without authorization," Counts said.

Zhou could not be reached for comment.

A man identifying himself as a manager at Wok & Roll declined to comment.

The remaining $21,400 is a civil penalty the INS said it imposed against Zhou
and Wok & Roll's local and national management companies for failing to keep
required employment records for 16 employees.

The fines are the latest development in a continuing INS investigation at the
airport that has seen agents make more than 30 arrests. The effort is part of a
nationwide push after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to make sure that
employees at such facilities as airports, power plants and water-treatment
plants have authorization to work in the United States.

No other airport employers have been fined.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 14, 2001 Sunday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS RACE TO APPLY FOR LEGAL RESIDENCY;
INTEREST IS 'PHENOMENAL,' LAWYERS SAY

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 809 words


Thousands of undocumented immigrants in the Twin Cities are expected to seek to
become legal permanent residents under a new federal law.

The response is so great because the law temporarily lets certain illegal
immigrants get a green card without leaving the United States, where many have
lived, worked and raised families for years.

Signed by President Clinton in December, the law allows people to avoid the
usual process of going back to their native country to apply and waiting as long
as 10 years to return.

Lawyers who handle immigration cases in both private and nonprofit legal-aid
practices cannot answer all the calls the new law is generating, and immigrants
seeking details are packing the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
district office in Bloomington.

Some lawyers have added night and weekend hours to keep up, while others already
have stopped taking new cases in the face of the demand.

"To me it's just phenomenal how much interest there is," said Steve Thal, an
immigration lawyer who has begun scheduling Saturday and weeknight appointments
in response to calls stemming from the new law. "These people are just coming
out of the woodwork."

Adding urgency is the relatively tight deadline Congress imposed on certain
immigrants, giving them until April 30 to apply.

Also underlying the surge is interest is a mistaken belief that the law created
a general amnesty, perhaps because Clinton initially proposed a bill that would
have eased the process of gaining legal residency for more than a million
immigrants.

While far from a general pardon, the final bill will help smooth the process for
hundreds of thousands of immigrants seeking green cards, which bestow permanent
residency. The provision in the bill that is getting the most attention
temporarily revives a benefit that Congress had extended to immigrants from 1994
through 1998.

The reinstated 245i provision allows certain undocumented immigrants living in
the United States to file for permanent residency without leaving the country if
they pay a $1,000 fine and apply by April 30. Without the provision, they would
have to return to their native countries to file and face a bar of up to 10
years on their return.

Those eligible under the provision are immigrants who otherwise qualify for
permanent residency but are not allowed to file in the United States because of
violations, such as entering the country illegally or overstaying a tourist
visa, Leslie Guyton, an immigration attorney in St. Paul, said.

Most who fall into that category are immigrants who have lived here for years
and likely would stay illegally rather than leave jobs and families to return to
their native countries to apply and then face 10 years outside the United
States, Guyton said.

"We're talking about people from all over the world who could benefit from this
law," said Pamela Santer, an immigration attorney in Minneapolis. "It will be
very important in preventing families from being separated and keeping good
productive people in the United States."

Immigration officials and lawyers who work with immigrants in the metro area are
bracing for the thousands of applications they expect will pour in at an
increasing rate as the deadline approaches. Congress passed the bill without
providing for additional immigration inspectors or staff for nonprofit legal-aid
offices.

"It's going to be a large number," said Dean Hove, deputy director of the INS
district office that serves Minnesota and the Dakotas. "I'm guessing it's going
to be in the thousands, but I really don't know how to predict it. I don't know
how we're going to think about handling the workload without an infusion of more
resources."

Centro Legal in St. Paul, a nonprofit community law office for Latinos, is
getting 200 to 300 extra calls a day from people asking about the new law, said
Jorge Saavedra F., chief legal officer. He estimated that 8,000 to 12,000
Latinos in the Twin Cities would apply.

The agency hopes to take up to 600 of those cases, but it will have to do some
fund raising to hire lawyers and other staff or find volunteers to help get the
work done on time, Saavedra said.

"After the holidays, we started getting pounded," Saavedra said of the phone
calls. "We have been getting completely overwhelmed."

FYI The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has posted a notice about
the new law on its Web site:
www.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/publicaffairs/advisories/lifeadv.htm.

Attorneys from Centro Legal, a community law office representing Latinos, will
have workshops on the law at 2:30 p.m. today and 3 p.m. Jan 27 at St. Stephens
Catholic Church at 2211 Clinton Ave. S. in Minneapolis and at 6 p.m. Jan. 22 at
Our Lady of Guadalupe at 401 Concord St. in St. Paul.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 30, 2001 Monday CITY EDITION

CITIES SEE MAD DASH FOR LEGAL RESIDENCE;
IMMIGRATION-PROVISION WINDOW CLOSES TONIGHT

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 588 words


Immigrants in the Twin Cities are racing to beat a midnight deadline today to
apply for legal status, an opportunity that has prompted an increase in
courthouse marriages and long lines at the Twin Cities office of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"It is crazy, absolutely crazy," said Leslie Guyton, a St. Paul immigration
lawyer. "I have boxes of stuff we're trying to finalize. We're going to be
working up to the deadline, I'm sure."

Immigration lawyers and nonprofit legal aid offices have been swamped since a
temporary law took effect Dec. 21 that allows undocumented immigrants with
specific family relationships or employer support to petition for permanent
residency without returning to their native country. Most illegal immigrants who
leave the United States may not return for three to 10 years, which discourages
many from seeking legal status.

With the law expiring at month's end, demand has remained strong through the
waning days of April. In recent days, people have begun lining up before dawn,
some as early as 2 a.m., to file papers at the INS office in Bloomington, which
will be open until midnight today to accept applications.

The provision, known Section 245(i), was in effect from 1994 to 1998 before its
current reinstatement. No one can say when or if Congress will revive it next.
"This seems to be a phenomenon here," said INS district director Curtis Aljets.

The INS has brought inspectors from the Minneapolis-St. Paul International
Airport and other areas to handle the extra workload. To thin out waiting lines,
officials have begun giving applicants numbers to mark their place and times to
return.

When they apply for permanent residency under this provision, undocumented
immigrants must pay a $1,000 penalty.

The office received 42 applications under Section 245(i) in January, 85 in
February, 176 in March and 111 through April 16, Aljets said. As long as the
application is filed by the deadline, immigrants can apply later for permanent
residency. The provision, which allows people in the country illegally to apply
for legal status if they have a close relative who is a citizen or permanent
resident, also has encouraged an upswing in marriage license applications in
Ramsey and Hennepin counties, a phenomenon noted around the country.

The number of marriage applications rose 35 percent in March and 24 percent in
April at the Hennepin County service center in downtown Minneapolis, supervisor
Linnae Ebel said.

In Ramsey County, marriage license applications rose 19 percent in March and 11
percent this month, said Carol Becker, manager of the public services division.

"All we've been seeing, especially the last three weeks, have been immigrants
and refugees that have been applying," Ebel said.

In several cases in both counties, judges have signed waivers allowing
immigrants to get married immediately, bypassing the usual five-day waiting
period from the time a license is received.

Immigration lawyer Steve Thal said that Thursday, the last day the INS office
was open to the public last week, was the busiest he had ever seen there. One of
his clients arrived at 2:30 a.m. to get in line.

"We've had just this four-month window to get in three years of cases like
this," Thal said. "I certainly feel for the people that are out there who are
still trying to get in. I hope Congress and the administration look at extending
it or making it permanent."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 13, 2001 Monday CITY EDITION

LOCAL ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CLOSELY WATCH AMNESTY PLAN

BYLINE: GLORIA RODRIGUEZ Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 783 words


When Antonia Molina sees a white van, flashbacks to "la migra," the immigration
officers she hid from while crossing the Mexican border into California, come to
her. Two years later in her Twin Cities home, the undocumented woman is still
ducking behind windows when a white van appears.

"My family can have a better life here than in Mexico," Molina said. To make a
living, she sticks labels on CDs and packs them in boxes in the
non-air-conditioned factory where she works. In the winters, she skins chickens
in a poultry plant. Molina and her husband rent a home and they can afford to
buy food every day. Still, for Molina, the fear is always there.

Molina is just one of the many undocumented workers living in the United States
who are hoping President Bush will succeed with his amnesty proposal that would
grant permanent legal status to some of the estimated 3 million to 4 million
undocumented immigrants from Mexico. The number of illegal immigrants in
Minnesota is unknown, but estimates range from 7,000 to 13,000. Nationally, the
number is estimated to be about 6 million.

Since the proposal and Bush's consideration of expanding it to include all
immigrant groups were announced in July, immigration lawyers around the Twin
Cities have received several inquiries. Anti-immigration groups have expressed
opposition to the plan.

"The immigration community seems to be very well informed about it," said Lenore
Millibergity, attorney at the Immigration Law Center of Minnesota in St. Paul.
"But we don't want to get people's hopes up about something that may never
pass."

For Jose Martinez of Mexico, legal status would make life a lot easier. Because
he lacks legal residency and English language skills, Martinez has settled for
temporary manual labor.

"You kill yourself out there, but what can you do?" Martinez said. "You need the
money."

Martinez starts the day at 6 in the morning to mow lawns and plant flowers in
the Twin Cities. Despite the summer heat, he gets little resting time and has
half an hour for lunch. He is done by 11 at night. Martinez sends money home to
help his brothers. For people like Martinez, simple rights such as buying homes
and getting a job with a decent salary and schedule are often forgotten.

If Minnesota's undocumented workers were removed, the state's economic growth
would decline significantly, according to a study done by the nonprofit group
Hispanic Advocacy and Community Empowerment through Research.

"They do jobs the average Americans wouldn't do," said Michael Yang, director of
the Immigrant and Refugee Policy Coalition of St. Paul. "They clean our hotels
and homes, keep our restaurants running and work the assembly lines. When you
think about it, we all came from immigrant families."

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which en-forces immigration
laws, has not taken a stand on the Bush proposal.

Leticia Martinez, an undocumented immigrant from Guate-mala, now sells tamales
on Twin Cities streets because she couldn't get a decent job elsewhere. Martinez
hopes the president will not favor Mexicans. "They treat us all the same
anyways," Martinez said. "They pay us low and work us hard because they know we
need the jobs."

In 1986, an "unconditional amnesty" was passed by Congress and granted legal
status to an estimated 3 million undocumented immigrants. Opponents of amnesty
efforts claim they lead to an increase in illegal immigration by people trying
to take advantage of the program.

Marilyn Larson, founder and executive director of Minnesotans for Immigration
Reform, says illegal immigrants should not be rewarded for breaking the law.
"There's a right and wrong way to enter a country," Larson said. "It is not fair
for those who are trying to enter the right way."

Jorge Saavedra, chief legal officer at Centro Legal in St. Paul, is bothered
that Bush is considering a guest worker program along with the amnesty proposal.
A guest worker proposal would give Mexican workers the right to travel freely
back and forth across the border for temporary jobs. "This gives employers a
license to be abusive, to pay less than market wages and to have low working and
living conditions," Saavedra said. "They take their labor and ship them back out
when they're through with that instead of legalizing status on a more permanent
basis."

Some say Bush is just courting Latino votes for the next presidential election.
"I have a concern he knows this will not pass and is just throwing this out to
win them (Latinos) over," Millibergity said.

Bush is expected to an-nounce his decision about the proposal by early
September, when he is set to meet with Mexican President Vicente Fox.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 21, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

LABOR OFFICIAL URGES IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 197 words


Illegal immigrants should be given amnesty and the nation's enforcement of
immigration laws needs to be reformed, Rich Trumka, the national AFL-CIO's
secretary-treasurer, said at a stop in St. Paul on Monday.

Trumka was in town to address the Minnesota AFL-CIO's annual convention at the
Radisson Riverfront Hotel. At a press conference, he elaborated on what has
increasingly become an issue for the AFL-CIO over the past two years:
immigration.

The AFL-CIO, the umbrella group for most U.S. unions, made a historic policy
shift last year when it demanded blanket amnesty for undocumented immigrants.
Fourteen years earlier, organized labor had supported get-tough immigration
laws. But since then, organized labor's share of the work force has fallen.
Meanwhile, immigrants increasingly work the type of jobs that could be most ripe
for unionization.

Trumka said immigration enforcement is tilted against undocumented workers and
that they are essentially denied labor rights. "The current system of
enforcement is broken," Trumka said. "It is causing workplace discrimination
against immigrants and minorities, particularly undocumented immigrants."

-- Mike Hughlett

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 30, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

U.S. ENCOURAGES NONCITIZENS TO COOPERATE IN TERRORISM PROBE

BYLINE: CASSIO FURTADO, Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 454 words


WASHINGTON -- Foreigners who help catch terrorists can be rewarded with U.S.
citizenship, Attorney General John Ashcroft promised Thursday. Even illegal
immigrants, he said, can avoid deportation through tips to federal investigators
about al-Qaida or other terrorists.

"We're asking all non-U.S. citizens to come forward," Ashcroft said at a Justice
Department briefing to publicize the initiative. "People who have the courage to
make the right choice deserve to be welcomed as guests into our country and
perhaps to one day become fellow citizens."

Immigration lawyers praise the approach, seeing it as a carrot that promotes
cooperation, unlike detention and threats of imprisonment, which coerce it.

"It's a tool the government can and should use under the right circumstances,"
said Cleveland immigration lawyer David Leopold, who represents 11 Israelis
arrested for immigration violations after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

President Bush last month signed an amendment to the Immigration and Nationality
Act, renewing the so-called S Visa, which permits favorable immigration
treatment for foreigners who cooperate with U.S. law enforcement. Ashcroft
dubbed the initiative, begun in 1994, the "Responsible Cooperators Program."
Immigration workers often call it the "snitch visa."

S visas permit their holders to remain in the United States for three years.
They can lead to permanent residency and, possibly, to U.S. citizenship. The S
visa, Ashcroft noted, "may cost us nothing, but it is priceless to the
recipient."

The S Visa program is limited to 50 counterterrorism and 200 crimestopper
recipients a year. Under the law, those who win the visas must be determined by
the government to have provided "crucial information about a criminal or
terrorist investigation."

Bush used a speech before the nation's prosecutors Thursday to laud Ashcroft and
defend the administration's anti-terrorism moves.

Saying "our laws are being enforced fairly and in full," Bush defended Ashcroft
for what he described as principled and steady leadership, and "a leadership
that's good for America." About Ashcroft's announcement regarding visas, Bush
said, "we will apply the immigration laws."

"We're interviewing people on a voluntary basis," he told a gathering of U.S.
attorneys in town for their annual convention. "We're saying, 'Welcome to
America. You've come to our country. Why don't you help make us safe? Why don't
you share information with us? Why don't you help us protect innocent people,
women and children and men? Why don't you help us value life? As you enjoy the
freedoms of our country, help us protect those freedoms.' "

This report includes information from Cox News Service.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The War on Terrorism

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    April 25, 2003 Friday MINNESOTA EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS MAY FACE INDEFINITE JAIL TIME
ASHCROFT RULING CITES WAR ON TERRORISM

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOA, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 526 words


WASHINGTON -- Most illegal immigrants can be jailed indefinitely without bond
when national security risks exist, Attorney General John Ashcroft has declared
in a legal opinion denounced by immigration advocates as an abuse of power in
the name of fighting terrorism.

The order means such aliens will not be released on bond while their cases are
being decided by immigration judges if the government can show that national
security issues are involved.

"Such national security considerations clearly constitute a reasonable
foundation for the exercise of my discretion to deny release on bond," Ashcroft
said in the 19-page opinion, which was signed last Friday.

The opinion was requested by the Homeland Security Department, which now
enforces most immigration laws, after the Board of Immigration Appeals upheld a
judge's decision to release Haitian asylum-seeker David Joseph on $2,500 bond.

Cheryl Little, executive director of Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, said
Ashcroft's opinion is the latest in a string of government decisions
"manipulating our very serious national security concerns to justify targeting
nationals of Haiti." Advocates for Latino and Muslim immigrants made similar
comments.

Ashcroft's opinion says the attorney general has broad discretion in determining
the status of would-be immigrants.

During an appearance Thursday in New Orleans, Ashcroft defended his decision and
said aliens held without bond have the right to defend themselves in court.

He said he would continue to seek new, legal ways to detain people suspected of
terrorism.

Immigration advocates have been troubled by Ashcroft's continued influence over
immigration policy after most of the nation's immigration apparatus was
transferred to the Homeland Security Department on March 1. Since then, Ashcroft
has given the FBI, U.S. Marshals and local police authority to arrest people on
immigration violations.

Joseph was among the 216 Haitians who arrived in Miami by boat Oct. 29, then
leaped from the craft into Biscayne Bay and ran along a major causeway.

A total of 100 Haitians who arrived on the same boat as Joseph had been granted
bond by judges. Ashcroft's decision also will affect them "and then some,"
Little said.

"It's a very sweeping decision. The attorney general has designated it as
precedent setting, meaning it could apply to all previous decisions made
regarding bond," she said.

Several federal agencies have opposed the release of the Haitians on bond,
arguing it could trigger a wave of immigrants.

In addition, the State Department has warned that Haiti has become a staging
point for non-Haitians considered security threats to enter the United States.

Dina Paul Parks, the New York-based coalition's executive director, said the
decision further erodes immigrants' legal rights.

"If you were lucky enough to get a sympathetic judge you could potentially get
released on bond. Now even that prospect is taken away," she said.

Ashcroft's decision applies to all illegal immigrants except Cubans, who by law
automatically are permitted to stay in the United States if they reach its
shores.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 25, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS MAY FACE INDEFINITE JAIL TIME
ASHCROFT RULING CITES WAR ON TERRORISM

BYLINE: GEORGE LARDNER JR., Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 543 words


WASHINGTON -- Broad categories of illegal immigrants can be detained
indefinitely without consideration of their individual circumstances if
immigration officials say their release would endanger national security,
according to a ruling by Attorney General John Ashcroft.

Ashcroft released the far-reaching decision Thursday in denying bond to a
Haitian, David Joseph, 18, who scrambled ashore at Key Biscayne last Oct. 29
with more than 200 other refugees. Immigration judges had approved the release
of about 100 of them.

The April 17 order means that groups of asylum seekers and other immigrants --
in this instance Haitians -- can be locked up without hearings and without
recourse to release on bond.

Ashcroft rejected claims that denying them bail on broad national security
grounds would violate their due process rights. He said it wasn't clear they had
any such rights.

Until now, the government has jailed individuals or groups seeking asylum for
long periods, but hasn't asserted the right to indefinitely detain whole classes
of illegal immigrants as security risks.

In overruling an appellate panel of immigration judges, Ashcroft said his
decision was based on the danger that release of Joseph and other Oct. 29
migrants "would tend to encourage further surges of mass migration from Haiti by
sea, with attendant strains on national and homeland security resources."

Ashcroft said such migrations have "heavily taxed Coast Guard capacity and
capabilities," limiting its responsiveness in other mission areas.

He also invoked the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, saying they'd increased
the necessity of preventing undocumented aliens from entering the United States
"without the screening of the immigration inspections process."

Immigration advocates denounced the 19-page ruling as a huge stretch of the
national security concept and a waste of the federal money that indefinite
detentions could consume.

"You would think the Attorney General would have better things to do these days
than target an innocent Haitian asylum seeker," said Cheryl Little, executive
director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, which represented Joseph. "It
is such a waste of precious resources." She said detentions of an earlier
boatload of Haitians cost the government $12.5 million over a six-month period.

Eleanor Acer, director of the asylum program at the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights, called the decision "deeply disturbing" because it invokes national
security to deprive "large numbers of asylum seekers of the chance to prove to
an immigration judge that they, in their individual cases, present no risk to
national security and merit release on bond."

She said the ruling affects not only asylum seekers, but also others who might
be picked up in this country as undocumented aliens, in a workplace raid, for
example.

Ashcroft said his decision was "fortified by the State Department's assertion"
that it has observed an increase in aliens from other countries, such as
Pakistan, using Haiti as a staging point for entry into the United States.

He said the national security interests he was invoking were directed "at
unlawful and dangerous mass migrations by sea, not the right to seek asylum."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      JANUARY 25, 2002 Friday CITY EDITION

TYSON SAYS IT DIDN'T SMUGGLE ALIENS

BYLINE: BILL POOVEY, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 407 words


CHATTANOOGA, TENN. -- Tyson Foods Inc. and six former managers pleaded not
guilty Thursday to federal charges of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants
to work at the company's poultry plants.

A federal magistrate told them to get ready for a February 2003 trial.

Tyson attorney Mark Hobson said a trial would not support prosecutors'
contentions of a company conspiracy, but instead would show immigrant smuggling
by government undercover agents.

"The case stems from a three-year undercover sting operation that, we believe,
resulted in the employment of approximately 50 undocumented workers delivered by
government agents to fewer than five Tyson facilities," the Arkansas-based
company said in a statement.

The executives, accompanied by their attorneys, arrived separately at the U.S.
marshal's office where they were fingerprinted and photographed.

"People who know me know there are two sides to the story. We need our day in
court," Spencer Mabe, 50, of Gainesville, Ga., a former manager at a Tyson plant
in Shelbyville, said in a courthouse hallway after the two-hour hearing.

Arkansas-based Tyson, one of the world's largest poultry, beef and pork
processors, has 120,000 employees and sales of $25 billion last year.

A Dec. 11 indictment accused Tyson and the other defendants of conspiring to
smuggle illegal laborers. The indictment implicated 15 plants in Tennessee,
Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Texas and
Virginia.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John P. MacCoon, the chief prosecutor, acknowledged the
2 1/2-year investigation involves work by undercover agents, and he told U.S.
Magistrate William Carter a trial will likely take about two months.

MacCoon said government evidence includes 422 undercover audiotapes, 36
videotapes and 360,000 pages of documents subpoenaed from Tyson.

Robert Hash, vice president of the company's division for retail fresh meat, and
Gerald Lankford, a former human resources manager of the retail fresh division,
are charged, as are four former managers at the Shelbyville plant. Each
defendant was released on $100,000 bond.

The company aided the immigrants by obtaining false documents so they could work
at Tyson plants "under the false pretense of being legally employable,"
according to the indictment.

Prosecutors also said the managers hoped the cheap labor would help Tyson cut
costs and meet production goals.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      JANUARY 25, 2002 Friday CITY EDITION

TYSON SAYS IT DIDN'T SMUGGLE ALIENS

BYLINE: BILL POOVEY, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 407 words


CHATTANOOGA, TENN. -- Tyson Foods Inc. and six former managers pleaded not
guilty Thursday to federal charges of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants
to work at the company's poultry plants.

A federal magistrate told them to get ready for a February 2003 trial.

Tyson attorney Mark Hobson said a trial would not support prosecutors'
contentions of a company conspiracy, but instead would show immigrant smuggling
by government undercover agents.

"The case stems from a three-year undercover sting operation that, we believe,
resulted in the employment of approximately 50 undocumented workers delivered by
government agents to fewer than five Tyson facilities," the Arkansas-based
company said in a statement.

The executives, accompanied by their attorneys, arrived separately at the U.S.
marshal's office where they were fingerprinted and photographed.

"People who know me know there are two sides to the story. We need our day in
court," Spencer Mabe, 50, of Gainesville, Ga., a former manager at a Tyson plant
in Shelbyville, said in a courthouse hallway after the two-hour hearing.

Arkansas-based Tyson, one of the world's largest poultry, beef and pork
processors, has 120,000 employees and sales of $25 billion last year.

A Dec. 11 indictment accused Tyson and the other defendants of conspiring to
smuggle illegal laborers. The indictment implicated 15 plants in Tennessee,
Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Texas and
Virginia.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John P. MacCoon, the chief prosecutor, acknowledged the
2 1/2-year investigation involves work by undercover agents, and he told U.S.
Magistrate William Carter a trial will likely take about two months.

MacCoon said government evidence includes 422 undercover audiotapes, 36
videotapes and 360,000 pages of documents subpoenaed from Tyson.

Robert Hash, vice president of the company's division for retail fresh meat, and
Gerald Lankford, a former human resources manager of the retail fresh division,
are charged, as are four former managers at the Shelbyville plant. Each
defendant was released on $100,000 bond.

The company aided the immigrants by obtaining false documents so they could work
at Tyson plants "under the false pretense of being legally employable,"
according to the indictment.

Prosecutors also said the managers hoped the cheap labor would help Tyson cut
costs and meet production goals.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 25, 2002 Friday CITY EDITION

TYSON SAYS IT DIDN'T SMUGGLE ALIENS

BYLINE: BILL POOVEY, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 407 words


CHATTANOOGA, TENN. -- Tyson Foods Inc. and six former managers pleaded not
guilty Thursday to federal charges of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants
to work at the company's poultry plants.

A federal magistrate told them to get ready for a February 2003 trial.

Tyson attorney Mark Hobson said a trial would not support prosecutors'
contentions of a company conspiracy, but instead would show immigrant smuggling
by government undercover agents.

"The case stems from a three-year undercover sting operation that, we believe,
resulted in the employment of approximately 50 undocumented workers delivered by
government agents to fewer than five Tyson facilities," the Arkansas-based
company said in a statement.

The executives, accompanied by their attorneys, arrived separately at the U.S.
marshal's office where they were fingerprinted and photographed.

"People who know me know there are two sides to the story. We need our day in
court," Spencer Mabe, 50, of Gainesville, Ga., a former manager at a Tyson plant
in Shelbyville, said in a courthouse hallway after the two-hour hearing.

Arkansas-based Tyson, one of the world's largest poultry, beef and pork
processors, has 120,000 employees and sales of $25 billion last year.

A Dec. 11 indictment accused Tyson and the other defendants of conspiring to
smuggle illegal laborers. The indictment implicated 15 plants in Tennessee,
Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Texas and
Virginia.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John P. MacCoon, the chief prosecutor, acknowledged the
2 1/2-year investigation involves work by undercover agents, and he told U.S.
Magistrate William Carter a trial will likely take about two months.

MacCoon said government evidence includes 422 undercover audiotapes, 36
videotapes and 360,000 pages of documents subpoenaed from Tyson.

Robert Hash, vice president of the company's division for retail fresh meat, and
Gerald Lankford, a former human resources manager of the retail fresh division,
are charged, as are four former managers at the Shelbyville plant. Each
defendant was released on $100,000 bond.

The company aided the immigrants by obtaining false documents so they could work
at Tyson plants "under the false pretense of being legally employable,"
according to the indictment.

Prosecutors also said the managers hoped the cheap labor would help Tyson cut
costs and meet production goals.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 6, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

MEXICO'S LEADER PRODS BUSH ON IMMIGRATION;
FOX CALLS FOR PLAN BY YEAR'S END

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON and MORRIS THOMPSON, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 626 words


WASHINGTON -- Mexican President Vicente Fox opened a three-day state visit
Wednesday by publicly prodding President Bush to come up with a plan this year
to ease U.S. immigration laws, surprising his host at a White House welcoming
ceremony.

U.S. officials declined to commit to Fox's quick timetable. Although both
presidents want to make it easier for Mexican workers to enter the United States
legally, Bush has said that any attempt to change immigration restrictions will
take time.

Negotiators from the United States and Mexico have been trying for months to
come up with a guest-worker program that also deals with undocumented workers
who are already in the United States. Bush has ruled out blanket amnesty. Guest
workers are admitted legally to perform specific jobs, such as harvesting crops,
and are required to return home when work is done.

Saying migrant workers make "a daily contribution to the prosperity of this
great nation," Fox said "the time has come" to recognize their worth.

Although U.S. officials knew that Fox hoped to complete the negotiations this
year, his decision to make the goal public increased pressure on Bush for
action. "We must, and we can, reach an agreement on migration before the end of
this very year," Fox said.

Bush offered no response to Fox's timetable. Without ruling it out, other U.S.
officials made it clear that they would not be bound by his target. National
Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice said: "It has to be done right, not just
quickly."

Fox uncorked the goal during an elaborate welcoming ceremony punctuated by a
21-gun salute on the White House South Lawn. With the flags of their countries
fluttering behind them, the two leaders agreed that the United States and Mexico
are at a unique stage in an often-strained relationship.

"I have come to Washington today as the president of a democratic Mexico, of a
Mexico determined to become a prosperous, secure nation, open to the world,"
said Fox, whose election last year ended the 71-year reign of the Institutional
Revolutionary Party.

Bush said Fox's election and expanding trade and immigration from Mexico to the
United States have brought the neighboring nations closer than ever before. He
said he selected Fox for the first state visit of his administration in
"recognition that the United States has no more important relationship in the
world than the one we have with Mexico."

Immigration is a top priority for Fox, whose domestic popularity has been
slipping as the U.S. economic slowdown ripples through Mexico's economy. He also
has had trouble getting what he wants from the Mexican Congress, where his
National Action Party is in a minority.

Any change that improved the status of Mexican immigrants would undoubtedly help
Fox's standing at home. Not only is it an emotional issue with the Mexican
public, but many also depend on the money their relatives in the United States
send home.

In pushing for fast action, Fox acknowledged that implementing the changes could
take until the end of his six-year term. He said his goal is a plan that
benefits workers and ends illegal immigration.

After retreating to the Oval Office for private talks, Bush and Fox presided
over a joint U.S.-Mexico Cabinet meeting that focused on trade, law enforcement,
immigration, illegal drugs and other cross-border issues.

Mexican Attorney General Rafael Macedo de la Concha said officials from both
countries endorsed an alternative to the U.S. Congress' annual review of
Mexico's efforts to fight illegal drugs.

The yearly debate is resented in Mexico, and many U.S. lawmakers question its
value. The alternative plan would let the Organization of American States
evaluate anti-drug efforts throughout the hemisphere.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GEORGE BRIDGES, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
President Vicente Fox of Mexico, left, chats with President Bush in the Oval
Office at the start of a three-day state visit Wednesday.
PHOTO: DOUG MILLS, ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mexican President Vicente Fox, who issued a surprise call for a plan to ease
U.S. immigration laws Wednesday, addresses reporters during a bilateral
meeting in Washington. Seated to his left are President Bush, Secretary of
State Colin Powell and Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 8, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

BUSH HITS SNAG ON PLAN TO HELP ILLEGAL WORKERS
BIPARTISAN DISAPPROVAL MOUNTS TO GRANTING THEM 'GUEST' STATUS

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON and DAVE MONTGOMERYWashington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1018 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush formally presented his plan to overhaul the
nation's immigration laws Wednesday, but it drew a largely negative reaction
that called into question his ability to push it through Congress.

Anti-immigration groups said Bush's plan to offer legal status to millions of
workers who are in the country illegally would bring a flood of new immigrants
and drive down wages. Labor unions and immigrant groups called the proposal an
election-year ploy that would lead to more exploitation of foreign workers.

The strongest positive reaction came from business leaders, who praised Bush's
effort to meet their employment needs while closing the black market in human
labor.

Under the plan, as many as 8 million workers who are in the country illegally
could become legal by joining a new guest-worker program. New immigrants could
enter the country by showing they have jobs.

The guest workers could stay for three years, with the possibility of
extensions. Bush left it to Congress to decide how many extensions a worker
could receive.

The proposal reignited the long-running debate over immigration and tossed the
issue into the middle of the 2004 presidential campaign.

Its unveiling represented his first big election-year policy initiative, one
intended in part to appeal to Hispanic voters, a particularly fast-growing
sector of the electorate.

But it also sought to satisfy a longstanding demand by employers that Washington
make it easier for them to hire foreign workers for jobs in hotels, on farms, in
construction and in other generally low-wage, unskilled positions that Americans
have been reluctant to take even during the recent economic downturn.

Declaring the current system a failure, Bush said his plan recognizes reality
and lets illegal workers come into the open.

"Workers who seek only to earn a living end up in the shadows of American life
-- fearful, often abused and exploited," he said. "It is not the American way.
Our laws should allow willing workers to enter our country and fill jobs that
Americans are not filling."

Although the goal of closing the underground market for illegal workers has
broad support from business organizations, labor unions and liberal advocacy
groups, the coalition broke apart Wednesday over the details of Bush's plan.
Labor leaders and immigrant advocacy groups criticized Bush's refusal to put
illegal workers on a track to full citizenship.

Under the White House plan, illegal workers who join the guest-worker program
could apply for citizenship, but they would have no advantage over any other
immigrant.

"America is a welcoming country," Bush said, "but citizenship must not be the
automatic reward for violating the laws of America."

Nearly all of Bush's Democratic rivals for the White House favor plans that
would make it much easier for illegal workers to become citizens. Sen. Joseph
Lieberman, D-Conn., said Bush's proposal "leaves foreign workers as fodder for
our fields and factories, without giving them a path to legalization."

Labor leaders said Bush's call for full legal rights for guest workers means
little if they are in the country temporarily. Guest workers are open to
exploitation, immigration experts say, because they need their employers'
assistance to obtain their visas. An employer, for example, could agree to
sponsor only those workers who agree not to join a union.

The Bush proposal gives workers some clout against their bosses by allowing them
to switch to another employer under the same visa.

Even so, AFL-CIO President John Sweeney said the plan would create "a permanent
underclass of workers" while "undermining wages and labor protections for all
workers."

While critics from the left said Bush's plan wouldn't go far enough, Bush also
faces strong Republican resistance. As many as a third of House Republicans are
thought to be cool to the proposal, if not outright hostile, say analysts on
both sides of the issue.

The initiative forces some Republicans to choose between their president and
constituents who resent the flow of immigrants. About 70 lawmakers, mostly
Republicans, have joined a caucus that advocates tougher immigration laws.

To their dismay, Bush's plan would let illegal workers obtain legal status. The
guest workers could freely leave and re-enter the United States and could bring
dependents into the country as long as they could show an ability to support
them.

"There's nothing more permanent than a temporary worker," said Craig Nelsen,
director of ProjectUSA, a group that favors tougher immigration laws.

Pat Buchanan, a former Republican presidential candidate, called the plan "a
massive reward for lawbreaking," and Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., denounced it as
"dangerous and unworkable."

"The wages for millions of jobs are being kept artificially low because there is
a continuing supply of cheap labor," Tancredo said.

If approved by Congress, Bush's plan would be the biggest overhaul of U.S.
immigration laws since the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, which
granted legal status to nearly 3 million undocumented workers.

Bush had been working on a similar package soon after taking office three years
ago, but put it on hold after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

The New York Times contributed to this report.

Bush's plan

Proposed application

-- Illegal immigrants or someone abroad would be able to apply for the right to
work legally for a three-year term that could be renewed.

-- Applicants already in the United States must pay a registration fee and show
current employment status.

-- Employer must show no Americans wanted the job.

Temporary workers ...

-- Would receive same protections afforded to American workers.

-- Would be allowed to move freely between the United States and home country.

-- Must return to home country at end of term; incentives to return home include
access to retirement benefits and tax savings accounts.

-- Would be able to bring dependents to the United States if able to prove
family support.

Source: Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: RON EDMONDS, ASSOCIATED PRESS

Calling the current immigration system a failure, President Bush on Wednesday
unveiled the details of his plan to grant legal status to as many as 8 million
undocumented workers if they register as guest workers. They could then apply
for citizenship, but would have no advantage over other applicants, he said.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 10, 2002 Wednesday

U.S. deports Pakistanis in secret airlift

BYLINE: STEVE FAINARU Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 369 words


NEW YORK -- In a highly unusual airlift involving hundreds of U.S. immigration
officers, the Justice Department secretly chartered a Portugese jet to deport
131 Pakistani detainees who had been held for months at INS detention facilities
around the country.

A majority of the detainees, a Pakistani official said, had been arrested under
a Justice Department program to locate and apprehend immigrants who have ignored
previous deportation orders and who came under scrutiny after the Sept. 11
attacks. None of the detainees appeared to have links to terrorism, U.S.
officials said.

U.S. and Pakistani officials arranged the airlift as a way to resolve
contentious diplomatic issues that have arisen between the two countries since
the Justice Department began detaining immigrants in the United States. U.S.
authorities have arrested about 1,200 people, most of Arab and South Asian
descent, on immigration violations and in connection with the terrorism
investigation. According to the latest government figures, 74 foreign nationals
are still being held on immigration charges related to the probe.

None of the detainees taken into custody after Sept. 11 has been charged with a
terrorism-related crime. The detentions and subsequent deportations have been
conducted in secret, drawing criticism from civil liberties advocates that the
government has illegally targeted Muslims and disrupted the lives of hundreds of
people who have nothing to do with terrorism and who have built lives in the
United States.

Most of the detainees, who were airlifted out of Louisiana on June 26, boarded
the plane quietly, but about 40 of them were "extremely unhappy" about being
deported, said Imran Ali, a Pakistani consular officer. One briefly resisted by
lying down on the tarmac, and another had to be carried onto the plane. Seconds
before the plane was about to taxi, a man whose wife had obtained a court order
preventing his deportation was removed.

The flight touched down 20 hours later in an equally dramatic scene, according
to Ali, who was onboard. About 50 detainees dropped to their knees in the
120-degree heat and pressed their foreheads to the broiling tarmac to give
thanks to Allah.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 30, 2001 Sunday CITY EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS AMONG NEW YORK VICTIMS

BYLINE: FRANCES ROBLES,Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 494 words


NEW YORK -- An anguished call came to New York City Councilman Guillermo
Linares' office two days after the World Trade Center disaster. Between heaving
sobs, a woman explained that her brother, a janitor, was missing.

But the illegal Dominican immigrant had worked under someone else's name -- and
that person was listed among the missing.

"She was crying, hysterical," said Linares' chief of staff, Mimi Minier. "She
was afraid and didn't know what to do. She kept saying: 'He's got papers, but
that's not him. I don't know what's going to happen to that other person,
because that's the one they're going to think is dead.' "

The caller told how her brother had hopped a raft from the Dominican Republic to
Puerto Rico. Sept. 11, she said, was his first day at work in America.

The woman promised to come to Linares' office, but never appeared.

Those who work closely with immigrants fear that perhaps dozens of newcomers who
lived alone, worked illegally or under aliases have disappeared, too.

As New York and federal officials compile a mounting list of people who vanished
when the trade center towers tumbled, immigrant advocates are taking their own
inventory: the busboys, delivery men, restaurant workers and window washers they
fear no one will notice missing.

Estimates of how many illegal immigrants perished vary. Most immigrant rights
groups think the number is relatively small, though one group thinks the number
could be in the hundreds.

"These people will die like they lived: invisibly," said Brother Joel Magallan,
with the Tepeyac Association, a New York social service agency for Mexicans.

Responding to fears that some missing undocumented workers would go unreported
because their families feared the INS, officials have announced they will not
seek immigration status information collected during the rescue/recovery effort.

"We have heard disturbing reports that some people whose loved ones are missing
have not come forward because of immigration issues," INS Commissioner James
Ziglar said in a statement. "We cannot let that happen."

Rosa Vargas, a former cashier at Akbar's Greenhouse Cafe, a restaurant under the
towers, has been working the phones and Internet for two weeks trying to track
down her former co-workers. From her home in Puebla, Mexico, she has accounted
for everyone except one, a delivery man named "Humberto."

She doesn't remember Humberto's last name. He is about 35, lived in New York for
five years and worked at Akbar's for two. Vargas is sure he didn't have papers
to work legally. Her former colleagues told her Humberto was working on Sept.
11--but has not been seen since.

"I will tell you something: The families who live in New York or anywhere in the
U.S. will not come forward," Vargas said. "I dare to report it, because I'm back
in Mexico. But if I was still living and working in New York, I'd do the same
thing--I'd keep quiet, and nobody would report Humberto missing."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Attack and Beyond

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 27, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

19 ILLEGAL WORKERS ARRESTED AT FACTORY;
JOB-SITE ACTION DEPARTS FROM RECENT INS POLICY

BYLINE: Amy Becker, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 472 words


Agents arrested 19 illegal workers at Wood Design Inc. in Forest Lake on Monday
morning, removing many of the company's employees in the early hours of the
workweek.

Many of those arrested by the Immigration and Naturalization Service -- 15 men,
three women and one teen-age boy -- will return to their home countries of
Mexico and El Salvador as early as Wednesday, INS officials predicted.

Officials declined to say how long they had investigated Wood Design or what
prompted their inquiry. They did say 11 illegal workers from the same company
were arrested and deported in 1995, although the company was not fined or
charged.

Monday's action is an uncommon move for the Immigration and Natural Service. The
agency's policies have shifted in recent years to finding undocumented people
engaged in criminal activities and away from job-site arrests. The last
significant arrest at a business took place in Winona a couple of years ago,
said Curtis Aljets, district director for the INS office in Bloomington.

"We're targeting businesses if we feel they have done something unlawful,"
Aljets said. A co-owner and other employees at Wood Design declined to comment.

Undocumented workers are generally charged with administrative, not criminal,
offenses, INS officials said. The detainees were interviewed at the Bloomington
office on Monday. Officials expected to transfer them to local jails by Monday
evening, said Tim Counts, public affairs specialist for the INS.

The undocumented workers will be "processed for removal," Counts said, but they
do have a number of options including requesting a hearing and seeking asylum. A
separate investigation of the employer is also under way.

Sixteen INS agents, four Forest Lake police officers and one representative from
the state Department of Revenue descended on the business about 8 a.m. Monday.
The INS agents had a warrant to search for and detain people.

It was described as a quiet and orderly arrest.

A manager for the company was cooperative and helped move employees, said
Investigator Kirby Siewert with the Forest Lake police.

Wood Design, whose products include wood plaques, had a lot of noisy machinery
running when INS officials entered the building. Authorities used a megaphone to
get employees' attention and one by one, machines fell silent as people moved
away from them to have their papers checked, Siewert said.

As often happens, many undocumented workers seemed resigned to their arrest,
said Chuck Midby, a supervisory special agent with the INS. Mexico and El
Salvador "are pretty good about taking their people back," he said. "The
majority of the people arrested today ... will probably be back in Mexico on
Wednesday."

Amy Becker, who covers Washington County, can be reached at
abecker@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5465.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 20, 2002 Wednesday

MINNESOTA: Immigrants highlight job impact

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 361 words


Immigrant workers have been making their mark on Minnesota's economy, and now
some money you receive may offer a sign of their contribution.

The cash in question bears peel-off stickers that say the currency was "earned
and spent in Minnesota by an undocumented worker."

Churches that are part of ISAIAH group, representing 80 congregations in the
Twin Cities metro area and St. Cloud, are handing out 75,000 of the stickers to
immigrants and asking them to place them on bills.

Organizers hope the campaign will highlight the impact undocumented workers have
on the state's economic output, estimated at $3.8 billion, or 2.4 percent of
Minnesota's gross state product, in a report released in 2000 by a Latino
research and advocacy group.

Immigrant workers, even undocumented ones, also pay hundreds of millions of
dollars in state and federal taxes, said James Kielkopf, the study's author and
member of ISAIAH's immigration committee.

"The labor that they provide is critical, especially in a number of industries
in Minnesota," said Kielkopf, citing agriculture services such as hotels and
restaurants and meatpacking. "Those businesses would close down if we didn't
have labor support from immigrants, a large number of whom actually are
undocumented."

Members of ISAIAH had considered such a campaign last year, but stepped up plans
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks because of the greater scrutiny some
immigrants have received since then, Kielkopf said. He said the group had been
handing out the stickers for the past couple of months.

Putting the peel-off stickers on currency is legal because it doesn't
permanently deface the bills, and it's a legal form of protest that other groups
have used elsewhere in the country, Kielkopf said.

Studies have found, Kielkopf said, that the taxes that undocumented workers pay
and other economic activity they stimulate more than offset the cost of services
they receive. At the time the study was released, officials of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service district that covers Minnesota criticized
the study for not adequately addressing the costs of illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday

Court: No back pay for illegal workers

BYLINE: GINA HOLLAND Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 522 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigrants who work illegally in American plants, restaurants and
fields do not have the same rights to restitution as U.S. citizens who are
mistreated on the job, a divided Supreme Court ruled Wednesday.

The court ruled that a plastics company owed nothing to a Mexican man who used a
friend's identification to get a job. The Bush administration argued that,
without the threat of punishment for employers, some of the millions of
undocumented workers in the United State might be exploited.

Justices split 5-4 along ideological lines on whether companies can be forced to
give back pay to illegal workers wrongly fired or demoted.

"Awarding back pay to illegal aliens runs counter to policies underlying"
federal immigration laws, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote in the
court's opinion.

The National Labor Relations Board has been allowing wronged undocumented
workers to collect back pay since 1995. The board makes sure that employees are
not punished for engaging in union activities and protesting employment
conditions. The chief tool is requiring back pay, or restitution.

"This decision has ominous implications for the enforcement of labor laws across
the board," said William B. Gould IV, the board's chairman from 1994-98. "It
will bring into our borders more exploitable low-wage workers."

As many as 7 million undocumented workers have jobs in the United States, the
court was told. Six states with high immigration populations had argued that
punishments are needed to protect workers.

The Supreme Court has held that undocumented workers are protected by federal
labor laws. Justices said in this case that did not entitle them to back pay
"for wages that could not lawfully have been earned and for a job obtained in
the first instance by a criminal fraud."

Jose Castro had a minimum wage job operating a plant blender at Hoffman Plastic
Compound's plant in Paramount, Calif. He and three other employees were laid off
in 1989 after they supported efforts to unionize the plant. He did not speak
English, nor did half of the other plant workers, according to court records.
The labor board said Hoffman owed Castro about $67,000.

Hoffman can be subject to "significant other sanctions" including a requirement
that it prominently post a notice to employees about their rights, Rehnquist
said in the decision.

"That's meaningless. That's simply a slap on the wrist," said Gould, who now
teaches labor law at Stanford University.

Maurice Baskin, Hoffman's lawyer, said the court used common sense in
determining "employers should not be required to make windfall payments to
illegal aliens."

Dissenting Justice Stephen Breyer said the back pay penalty "reasonably helps to
deter unlawful activity that both labor laws and immigration laws seek to
prevent."

Joining Breyer were Justices John Paul Stevens, David Souter and Ruth Bader
Ginsburg.

The decision was criticized by immigrant and women rights groups.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia sided 5-4 with Castro,
who was fired after handing out union cards to fellow employees.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 25, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

WAL-MART OFFERS CLEANUP
RETAILER SAYS IT WILL REVIEW ALL 1.1 MILLION WORKERS, FIRE ILLEGALS

BYLINE: CHUCK BARTELS, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 351 words


LITTLE ROCK -- Wal-Mart Stores Inc., stung by allegations that it knew contract
cleaning services used illegal workers, said Friday it would review all of its
1.1 million U.S. workers and fire any that aren't legally employed.

The move came a day after federal agents arrested 245 illegal workers in a
21-state sweep of 60 Wal-Mart stores and the company's headquarters.

Law enforcement officials told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity
that they gathered recordings from wiretaps that indicate Wal-Mart executives
knew the company's subcontractors used illegal workers.

Though contract cleaning crews were the focus of the sweep, Wal-Mart spokeswoman
Mona Williams said Friday that about 10 Wal-Mart associates in Arizona and
Kentucky were among those arrested.

"These are people who used to be part of the outside cleaning crew, and when we
took that in-house, these folks were simply hired on as employees," Williams
said. "They got caught up in the immigration sweep."

Wal-Mart began moving toward using its own workers to clean floors at its stores
about a year ago.

John Shewairy, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Washington, D.C., would not reveal the names of companies that contracted with
Wal-Mart. Williams, citing privacy issues, said Wal-Mart would not name the
companies either.

Shewairy did say the workers came from 18 nations and included 90 people from
Mexico, 35 from the Czech Republic, 22 from Mongolia and 20 from Brazil. The
government initially said it had arrested about 300 people, but Shewairy said
Friday the number turned out to be lower.

Wal-Mart, the largest private employer in the United States, pledged to
cooperate with investigators.

The company instructed store managers Thursday to preserve all relevant
documents in case immigration agents want to review them. Agents left with
several boxes after searching the office of a mid-level executive at Wal-Mart's
Bentonville, Ark., headquarters.

Williams said Friday that Wal-Mart has still not heard from the government that
it is a target of an investigation.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 8, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

LOCAL LATINOS WELCOME IMMIGRATION PROPOSAL
LEGAL STATUS WOULD OPEN OPPORTUNITIES

BYLINE: TODD NELSONPioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 640 words


Dreams of owning a home, starting or expanding a business and enjoying a more
stable life flourished for some Latinos in the Twin Cities with Wednesday's news
of a proposal to grant temporary legal status to workers here illegally.

The details of President Bush's proposal are sketchy, and Congress would have to
approve of what would be the greatest overhaul of the country's immigration laws
since 1986. Nationally, the proposal drew criticism from both sides of the
immigration issue and some skeptics question whether it was an election-year
ploy to win Latino votes.

Yet the prospect of gaining legal status was enough to raise the hopes of
undocumented workers, Latinos in the Twin Cities said. The proposal also could
raise their fortunes as well as boosting the state's economy, which gains an
estimated $1.56 billion a year from undocumented labor in meat processing, food
service, construction and other industries, according to a study released in
2000 by a Latino advocacy group.

Without legal status, such workers send most of their money back home to
relatives. Many cannot buy houses or open or expand a business or are reluctant
to, because they fear losing their investment if caught working illegally.

"People need an opportunity like this to go straight," said Emilio Rodriguez, a
Mexico native who has opened two of his Los 3 Potrillos Western wear stores in
St. Paul. "People are scared. They don't want to lose their houses, they don't
want to lose their jobs, they don't want to lose their families."

Undocumented workers are not going to go away. Employers need the labor, and the
rewards of working in the United States are far greater than in Mexico, where a
worker might take home $10 after putting in 12 grueling hours at a construction
site, his hands and a shovel as his only tools.

"They try to pass the border and they don't care if they die right there,"
Rodriguez said. "If they pass the border, they get the beautiful life in the
United States. They say they don't want to die in Mexico where they work very
hard for very low pay."

Angel Sanchez is of three business partners who own the Bymore Supermercado
grocery store in St. Paul and other Latino businesses in the Twin Cities that
employ 100 Latinos, all working legally. He said workers who have legal status
will spend more of their money in this country and will feel more confident
about buying a house and investing in a business.

"Latinos have wanted this for a long, long, long time," Sanchez said during an
interview at his store on St. Paul's East Side, home to a rapidly growing Latino
community that now outnumbers the longer-established Latino community on the
city's West Side. "People are going to stay longer, they are going to buy houses
and they're not going to send their money to Mexico. We see the community
growing, and with this kind of news, you're going to be more confident to expand
your business."

In South Minneapolis, Rafael Varela, owner of the 2 Cultures bookstore in
Mercado Central, a Latin business and cultural center, said the president's
proposal was a good compromise. The political motivation behind it is clear, he
said, but he doesn't mind because the new system would keep business owners from
taking advantage of undocumented workers by paying them less and threatening to
turn them over to authorities.

The proposal would open the way for workers who are now undocumented to get
driver's licenses and car insurance, something that would benefit everyone, said
Becky George, who owns Fiesta Flor y Diseno, a flower shop at Mercado Central,
with partner Alex Gazca.

"This gives them the pride and the recognition that I think they deserve,"
George said.

Paul Sand contributed to this report.

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 11, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

BUSH IMMIGRATION PROPOSAL SOUNDS JUST FINE AND DANDY, EXCEPT ...

BYLINE: KATHLEEN PARKER, Syndicated Columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 760 words


Maybe I'm missing something, but President Bush's proposed program to legitimize
immigrants working illegally in the U.S. has inspired much ado about nada.

Conservatives are prickly because, they say, illegals are robbing precious
American jobs. And because illegals are, well, illegal.

Liberals are offended because they say Bush is merely creating an underclass of
cheap labor, as though we don't already have exactly that. Except that presently
it is also an illegal underclass.

And illegals are unhappy because they're not getting enough under the proposed
program.

Excuse me for being so sane, but when did illegal aliens get to gripe about the
size of their benefits package?

Bush, meanwhile, is happy because he gets to ratify his conservative compassion,
attract Hispanic voters and feel virtuous as he waxes about our proud
immigration heritage. Excuse me for interrupting again, but immigration was very
cool the first 200 years or so of American history, but since Sept. 11, 2001,
it's terrifying.

We clearly have an immigration system that needs fixing, but post-9/11 we might
be spared the misty-eyed paean to the world's tired, poor, huddled masses. At
this point, we're all a little tired, stretched and bunched up.

Mexico President Vicente Fox is also happy, though cautiously. He's happy
because he temporarily rids himself of 3 million to 5 million people his country
can't support, but cautious as he waits for "details." Translation: Please keep
them!

Most entertaining of the reactions has come from illegals themselves, or at
least from their advocates. A spokesperson for the National Council of La Raza,
for instance, said that once targeted workers read the fine print, many will
feel they're better off living here illegally than putting their names in the
government's database.

I know just what they mean. First they get you in their databases, then they
want you to pay taxes.

Some of what illegals would get in exchange for signing up are worker benefits,
legal protection, freedom to travel between Mexico and the U.S. without fear of
deportation and a stake in our fabulous Social Security program. What they
wouldn't get -- and what they clearly want -- is amnesty and a fast track to
citizenship.

All things considered, I'd say that's a pretty swell deal for people who are
otherwise breaking the law and who, alternatively, could be deported.

The Bush plan arguably has some logical merit. It seems reasonable to stop
pretending that we don't have several million people working here illegally. It
also seems fair that people who are working here should be protected in the
usual ways.

It also seems pretty clear that no one's hotel room would get cleaned if
immigration officials suddenly enforced our policies. Finally, I like the idea
that we know who's here and what they're up to. Let's take names, by all means.

On the other hand, as critics have argued, why have laws if you won't enforce
them? And what about all those immigrants who have played by the rules? The list
of "yes, buts" is long and deserving of closer scrutiny.

Even if one agreed philosophically with decriminalizing human beings who merely
want to live and work here, some of Bush's details seem a little fuzzy. To
deflect criticism that illegals are taking away jobs from Americans, for
example, he stipulates that employers "make every reasonable effort to find an
American worker for the job at hand." Oh, OK.

Also under Bush's plan, qualified aliens would be signed up for a three-year
work permit, then expected to go home. Given that they didn't head home when
their previous visas expired -- or were willing to come without one -- why are
they going to play by the rules this time around?

Ah, the grand incentive: They'll get to reap benefits accrued from their Social
Security payments and individual retirement programs. Marvelous to consider,
isn't it? Three years of subsistence wages plucking chickens and an early
retirement. No wonder they flock to our borders.

Which is exactly the point of critics from the illegal side. Without the promise
of amnesty or the incentive of citizenship, many simply will opt not to
participate. To remain illegal. To live in the shadows where bureaucrats with
databases can't find them.

Nobody said they were dumb. But a voluntary program that relies on the
rule-abiding goodwill of illegal aliens who feel entitled to a better deal may
be.

Parker (e-mail: kparker@kparker.com) is a columnist for the Orlando Sentinel.
Distributed by Tribune Media Services.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 11, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION PLAN REVIVES MEMORIES
EXPERTS CITE FAILINGS OF PAST PROGRAMS

BYLINE: DEBORAH KONG, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 818 words


As critics begin scrutinizing President Bush's proposal to grant legal status to
millions of undocumented workers, some are worried the administration will fail
to learn from two previous experiments, one during World War II and the other in
1986.

Bush's plan is a modern-day rewrite of the World War II guest worker program
that "tore families apart and stripped laborers of their earnings and their
future," the Congressional Hispanic Caucus said after the president proposed his
idea Wednesday.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, an advocate of stricter immigration enforcement, accused Bush
of "totally ignoring the nation's experience with the ill-fated 1986 amnesty
program" that granted legal status to almost 3 million undocumented immigrants.

That program "only encouraged a new wave of illegal immigration," said Tancredo,
R-Colo.

Bush's plan would create a temporary worker program for undocumented immigrants
already in the United States and for people in other countries who have been
offered employment here. Migrants would be able to get renewable three-year
labor visas, but Bush said they would not receive special consideration for
permanent residence or citizenship.

Immigration experts and critics on both sides of the political spectrum caution
that policy-makers should heed some of the past programs' failings by building
in strong worker protections and enforcing the law when it comes to employers
who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

The braceros program -- named after "brazo," the Spanish word for arm -- was the
first of the two earlier efforts. Under an agreement between the United States
and Mexico, as many as 5 million temporary workers crossed the border to fill a
labor shortage caused by World War II, said Oscar Martinez, a history professor
at the University of Arizona.

But the braceros, who worked mostly in agriculture, didn't have many of the same
rights as Americans. "Braceros were at the mercy of the employers," Martinez
said. "There was limited government oversight and there were lots of abuses."

Workers lived in overcrowded camps and were denied medical assistance and the
right to organize, advocates say.

Some braceros are still engaged in a legal battle with the U.S. and Mexican
governments, seeking money that was set aside in savings funds to be paid to
them once they returned to Mexico.

Rep. Ciro Rodriguez, chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said
lawmakers should remember what happened.

"If you want to establish any kind of guest worker program," Rodriguez said,
"we've got to make sure that we treat people with dignity" by ensuring "they be
given the same wages, the same benefits that anyone else would get doing the
same kind of work."

Bush said in his proposal that temporary workers should enjoy the same rights as
American workers.

The braceros program had another consequence, some say -- encouraging illegal
immigration. The number of people caught entering the country illegally
increased tenfold from 1964, when the braceros program ended, to 1976, according
to a report by the National Foundation for American Policy.

It "made many sectors of the Mexican population familiar with the whole process
of coming to the United States to work, and going back and forth," said Frank
Bean, a demographer at the University of California, Irvine.

"Anytime you have a guest worker program of one kind or another, you end up with
permanent migration," Bean said.

Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, approved during President
Reagan's second term, undocumented immigrants who could prove they had been in
the country since before 1982 were allowed to apply for legal permanent
residence. By 2001, a third of them had become citizens, according to INS
statistics.

One of them was Cynthia Alvarez, who was 8 when she and her family slipped
across the border from Mexico.

Being undocumented "was like having a very, very short ceiling, walking around
feeling that you couldn't think about the future," said Alvarez. Now 32, she's
pursuing a doctorate in political science at Stanford University and working in
finance.

"The '86 program was a good idea," she said. "I contribute to this country
plenty, and I am certainly not the exception."

The 1986 program also increased Mexican migration to the United States, as those
who were legalized brought their families. And it created networks that made it
easier for others to come, said Michael Fix, director of the Urban Institute's
immigration studies.

But Tancredo said illegal immigration also increased.

"The lesson we can learn is that you do not reward illegal behavior. It only
encourages more illegal behavior," he said.

Many people agree that the 1986 law failed in one respect: the lack of
enforcement of a provision requiring employers to check workers' documents and
penalizing those who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Cynthia Alvarez successfully applied for amnesty in 1986 and now works in San
Francisco.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 11, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFING

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 908 words


Jury charged with giving tipoff

MIAMI -- A federal grand juror was charged Monday with leaking information about
a drug investigation that included a search of O.J. Simpson's home last week.
John Acosta, 31, was charged with obstruction of justice for tipping off a
friend who was later charged in the investigation. Prosecutors say the Ecstasy
ring is also suspected of money laundering and satellite TV equipment theft.
U.S. Attorney Guy Lewis declined to say whether the alleged disclosure
jeopardized the ability of investigators to gather evidence at Simpson's home or
any of the other nine locations searched. He also would not comment on Simpson's
alleged involvement or how Simpson's attorney got advance word about the search
warrant for the former football star's home. Federal agents have arrested 11
people as part of Operation X.

Immigrant-smuggling ring used bus firm

WASHINGTON -- Federal authorities charged a California bus company operating in
the southwest with illegally transporting tens of thousands of undocumented
aliens smuggled across the U.S.-Mexico border, Attorney General John Ashcroft
said Monday. Golden State Transportation, based in Los Angeles, worked with
migrant smugglers who bought large blocks of bus tickets for immigrants to
travel from staging areas along the border inside the United States to cities in
California, Arizona, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, Nevada, and Washington state,
Ashcroft said. Between 50 and 300 migrants were shuttled from city to city each
day last year in what is being called the largest human smuggling case involving
a transportation company. A 39-count indictment unsealed Monday charges 32
people, including officers, bus terminal managers, dispatchers and drivers of
Golden State, and six smugglers.

House leader may not run again

House Majority Leader Dick Armey, a Texas Republican who holds one of the
nation's most powerful political seats, is considering retiring from Congress at
the end of his term, sources close to him said Monday night. Armey is
"considering the possibility of not filing for re-election" and, instead,
"entertaining the idea of going out on top, much like Wayne Gretzky, Ted
Williams and Michael Jordan -- the first time," one close associate said. Armey
was first elected to the U.S. House in 1984 and was named majority leader in
1994.

Judge clears mom who left baby in van

ADEL, Iowa -- A mother who testified she was distracted and running late for
work when she left her 7-month-old daughter in her minivan was found not guilty
Monday in the girl's death. Judge Paul Huscher found Kari Engholm not guilty of
involuntary manslaughter and neglect of a dependent person in the June 26 death
of her daughter, Clare. Temperatures were near 90 that day and the girl died
from overheating. "We're very pleased with Judge Huscher's decision," Engholm
said outside the Dallas County Courthouse. Engholm said Huscher, who heard the
case without a jury, recognized that Clare's death was a "heartbreaking, tragic
accident."

High triglycerides linked to stroke

DALLAS -- Researchers have identified another predictor of stroke that some
doctors may be overlooking: high triglycerides. A study found that heart
patients who have high levels of these fatty particles in their blood run a
higher risk of a stroke, even if their cholesterol is low. Doctors have long
identified high cholesterol, obesity, diabetes and old age as factors that raise
the risk of stroke. And a study published last year in the American Heart
Association journal Circulation showed that high triglycerides sharply increase
the risk of dying from a heart attack. However, this study is the first to
identify triglycerides as an independent risk factor for stroke, said study
author Dr. David Tanne at Sheba Medical Center in Israel. The findings appear in
today's issue of Circulation.

FDA approves new blood thinner

WASHINGTON -- The government approved a new type of blood thinner Monday that
generated doctor excitement when studies suggested it cut the risk of blood
clots after hip and knee surgery far more than standard therapy. But in
approving Arixtra, the Food and Drug Administration warned that it may not
really be superior to standard therapy because of a quirk in how those studies
were performed. Plus, it cannot be given to some patients -- those with serious
kidney failure or who weigh less than 110 pounds -- because it could cause
dangerous bleeding. Blood clots in the deep veins of the legs are a common and
severe threat after hip replacement, knee replacement or a hip fracture. The
clots can kill if they break off and travel through the bloodstream to the
lungs. To prevent this condition, called deep-vein thrombosis, those patients
always are given blood thinners after surgery.

Venezuelans strike against economic laws

CARACAS, Venezuela -- Thousands of Venezuelan businesses closed Monday and
millions of people stayed home from work in a nationwide strike against new laws
that critics say stifle investment. President Hugo Chavez responded by calling
out troops and police to patrol the tense streets and accusing "corrupt economic
elites" of conspiring against his government. He threatened legislation
regulating the content of news reporting. The 12-hour business strike appeared
to further polarize politics in Venezuela, the United States' fourth-largest
trade partner in the Americas and No. 3 supplier of oil.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    December 20, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

TYSON OFFICIALS ACCUSED OF SMUGGLING ALIENS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 348 words


Six executives and managers of Tyson Foods Inc. were accused Wednesday of
smuggling illegal Mexican immigrants into the country to work at the processing
plants of the world's largest poultry company. The federal indictment said one
manager told an undercover agent the company would pay $200 for each illegal
alien delivered. The indictment, unsealed Wednesday, in U.S. District Court in
Chattanooga, Tenn. also said the managers helped the immigrants obtain false
documents to work in the United States, hoping cheap labor would help meet
production goals. The conspiracy allegedly reached 15 plants in nine states. The
charges stem from a "few managers acting outside of company policy," Springdale,
Ark.-based Tyson said.

More data on options required in reports

The Securities and Exchange Commission voted Wednesday to require corporations
to provide more information on stock options in annual reports and proxy
statements, including options awarded without shareholder approval. Beginning in
July 2002, companies must show the number of outstanding options, warrants and
rights, plus the number of securities available for future option awards. Plans
not approved by shareholders must be disclosed along with those that are
approved.

American recalling reservation clerks

American Airlines has begun recalling about 800 laid-off reservations clerks to
handle increased inquiries to call centers. The Fort Worth-based carrier said it
doesn't expect to recall pilots, flight attendants or other workers. Last week
Eagan-based Northwest Airlines announced it was recalling 312 telephone
reservation agents because of higher call volumes

Briefly: Enron Corp. chairman and chief executive officer Kenneth Lay resigned
from Eli Lilly and Co.'s board of directors in the wake of Enron's plunge into
bankruptcy. Lay's resignation was effective Dec. 10. Enron filed for bankruptcy
on Dec. 2... Coca-Cola Co. said it expects fourth-quarter worldwide case volume
growth of 4 percent to 5 percent, with the full year's growth to be about 4
percent.

-- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 21, 2003 Sunday EARLY EDITION

KIDNAPPERS FIGHT OVER HUMAN CARGO
IMMIGRANTS NABBED AND HELD FOR RANSOM

BYLINE: DAVID KELLY, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 741 words


PHOENIX -- Moving with the cunning and cruelty of modern-day pirates, gangs of
kidnappers are swooping down on Arizona highways, attacking smugglers
transporting illegal immigrants and stealing their human cargo.

The kidnappers stash the immigrants in hundreds of drop houses scattered around
this city, using violence and threats to extort money from their relatives.

Now smuggling gangs are fighting back, shooting it out with kidnappers on
sidewalks and freeways in broad daylight.

A gun battle last month between kidnappers and smugglers on Interstate 10 at the
height of rush hour left four dead. Four others were killed this month in the
desert near Phoenix; authorities blamed the deaths on violence between the two
groups.

Kidnappers operate simply enough; they let smugglers take all the risks of
getting immigrants into the country, then rob them once they get here. When they
can't intercept smugglers on the road, they snatch migrants from houses where
they are hiding.

The wave of violence has made this the deadliest year in Phoenix history with
247 homicides, edging out the previous high of 245 in 2001. Police say 60
percent of the city's crime is related to smuggling and kidnapping.

"It's impacted the whole quality of life here," said police spokesman Sgt. Randy
Force.

The increased crime is largely a result of tighter border restrictions in the
aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, officials say. California
and Texas are now considered too tough to penetrate, so illegal immigrants are
flooding across Arizona's large, desert border.

And the cost of the journey has skyrocketed from $200 to about $1,500.
Immigrants are now considered as valuable as narcotics, and many kidnappers are
former drug dealers.

The spiraling violence prompted the U.S. Department of Homeland Security last
month to launch Operation Ice Storm, a massive campaign to regain control of the
streets. Fifty new customs and immigration agents have come to Phoenix, the
border patrol has stepped up activities along highways and criminal penalties
for hostage taking now include life in prison.

"Phoenix is (the) epicenter of illegal smuggling of people and contraband," said
Kyle Barnette, special agent in charge of the immigration and customs
enforcement bureau in Phoenix. "And now these bandits are stealing each other's
loads."

The victims, including children, are often sexually assaulted or tortured until
their relatives come up with the ransom, about $1,800 for Mexicans and as high
as $10,000 for South Americans.

"It's a whole new breed," said Armando Garcia who heads the human smuggling
division of the Phoenix immigration office.

In a recent case, kidnappers threatened to hack off the arm of a 9-year-old girl
and send it to the family if they didn't pay up. Authorities tracked the calls
and raided the house where they found the girl cowering in a bathroom about to
be raped. Another woman was sexually assaulted so often she screamed whenever a
man came near.

"They realize there are hardships along the way," said customs agent Angel
Rascon. "But they don't expect to be raped, extorted and kidnapped."

Along with the carjackings, Phoenix has seen 300 home invasions this year, as
heavily armed kidnap gangs storm houses they think are holding illegal
immigrants. People who look like recent immigrants have been abducted from their
front yards.

"The immigrants are seen as vulnerable," Force said. "They are reluctant to call
the police for fear they will be deported."

A customs agent with experience in Latin America said the kidnappers are highly
organized family members who number about 30 or 40 and work in 10- to 12-man
cells. Many come from the city of Culiacan in Sinaloa, Mexico.

Using an intelligence network along the border, the gangs are alerted when a
load of illegal immigrants is on the way.

Agent Rascon figures there are at least 1,300 drop houses in the city where
immigrants are being kept by smugglers awaiting their payment or held hostage by
kidnappers demanding ransom.

Authorities have found up to 100 people crammed in a single room. Kidnapping
victims are often bound head to toe in duct tape with only an opening to breathe
through.

Despite the perils, Arizona is seen as the easiest gateway to the United States,
though controls are tightening near border cities, pushing immigrants to cross
farther out into the desert.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 22, 2002 Friday

INS lost track of resident immigrants, investigators say

BYLINE: BY SHANNON McCAFFREY; Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 313 words


WASHINGTON -- The government could not find nearly half the 4,112 registered
immigrants it wanted to interview after last year's Sept. 11 attacks because the
Immigration and Naturalization Service did not know where they were living,
congressional investigators said Thursday.

The General Accounting Office, Congress' watchdog arm, faulted the INS for
failing to tell legal permanent immigrants that they must keep the government
informed of their whereabouts.

The GAO said the government has not enforced since the early 1970s a law that
calls for criminal penalties or even deportation of legal immigrants who fail to
notify the government of a change of address within 10 days of moving.

The INS has been under fire since the terrorist attacks for failing to track
aliens within U.S. borders, including two Sept. 11 hijackers who held INS-issued
student visas. It soon will be abolished and most of its functions will be
absorbed by the Homeland Security Department.

The GAO noted that after the attacks Attorney General John Ashcroft directed
federal prosecutors to interview immigrants "who might have had knowledge of
foreign terrorists or their organizations."

Of the 4,112 believed to still be in the country, 1,851 could not be found.

On July 23, Ashcroft proposed rules to help the INS begin enforcing the law. The
subsequent deluge of change-of-address forms overwhelmed the INS's ability to
update its records, agency officials said.

In a written response to the GAO report, Robert Diegelman, acting assistant
attorney general for administration, agreed with most of the report's findings
but said U.S. attorneys' offices did not have time to prosecute minor offenses
such as failing to file change of address forms. The maximum penalty is 30 days
in jail and a $200 fine, he said.

        The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 16, 2002 Monday

IMMIGRATION IN THE TWIN CITIES AFTER 9/11: For some, registration leads to
deportation

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 814 words


A new nationwide tracking system is causing turmoil for Middle Eastern visitors
in the Twin Cities, some of whom face the threat of being deported when they
register.

The difficulties come as men 16 and older report to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in Bloomington, where they are interviewed,
fingerprinted and photographed.

Some foreign visitors who have gone to register have had removal proceedings
started against them if they have past or current problems with their
immigration status, attorneys say. Federal officials appear to be unable or
unwilling to exercise discretion in those cases, even when the visitors have
pending applications for permanent residency, signified by so-called green
cards.

The INS has detained people for hours, sometimes in handcuffs, attorneys say,
adding that some of the detainees feared being immediately deported.

Outside the Bloomington INS office Friday, a Lebanese native who is studying
medicine at the University of Minnesota said he understood the need for
heightened security. But he questioned how effective the new tracking system
would be.

"We work hard to come here. We don't want to be treated like terrorists," said
the student, who didn't want to be identified because he said he feared
reprisals. "We come here to get good training and work hard to contribute to the
economy of this country, not to be treated as criminals."

"The goal of finding people who might have devious plans is one thing," said
immigration attorney Leslie Guyton, whose St. Paul office had three clients,
from Syria, Libya and Sudan, detained for a day when they went to register.
"What is going to happen is very innocent people are going to be caught up in
this, people who have been law-abiding good people who may be in the process of
straightening out their papers. I think it's very harsh."

The screening system was launched in response to 9/11, in part to help
authorities track wanted criminals and terrorists. For now, men from 18 Middle
Eastern and Arab nations must register. In three years, it will grow to track
all of the estimated 35 million foreign visitors who enter the United States
each year. Most are students, business travelers or tourists visiting relatives.

Temporary foreign visitors from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan or Syria who were
admitted before Sept. 10 must register by today. Those from Afghanistan,
Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia,
Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates who entered before Oct. 1 and who will stay
at least until Jan. 10 must register by that day.

INS officials have said the agency is carrying out a mandate from Congress to
screen temporary foreign visitors more closely. Those who have problems with
their immigration status are subject to removal proceedings and, under security
procedures, may be placed in holding cells and handcuffed, though usually only
briefly, said INS spokesman Tim Counts.

The INS is not releasing the number of those who register or those who end up in
removal proceedings as a result.

May Jasem, a U student from Qatar who accompanied her husband, Ibrahim Ali, to
translate while he registered, said officials were polite.

"With what happened on Sept. 11, they should take care," Jasem said. "This
bothers me because we're students -- we came just to study."

Minnetonka immigration attorneys Steven Thal and Barbara Erlandson said a client
of theirs from Iran was referred to deportation when officials found he had had
problems with his immigration status, though he is only months away from
becoming a permanent resident.

"If they didn't have special registration ... these individuals would not have
been under removal proceedings," Thal said. "They would have allowed the process
to continue. It's very unusual for a case like that to be placed in removal
proceedings."

The tracking system also will complicate life for businesspeople here on
temporary visas who often travel out of the country, said Minneapolis
immigration attorney Scott Wright. They must check with the INS whenever they
leave the country or return, and they must do so where they depart or re-enter.

As the tracking system expands to cover trading partners in North America,
Europe and Asia, the United States could face a backlash, Wright said.

"We need to make sure hundreds of thousands of Americans living, working and
studying abroad are not punished for the United States' being overzealous on
technicalities here," Wright said. "We need to make sure that people with minor
technical violations who have made a mistake, that shouldn't cost them their
livelihood."

To learn more about the new regulations, check:

* INS Service Center: (800) 375-5283.

* INS on the Web: www.ins.usdoj.gov

* University of Minnesota students: www.isss.umn.edu

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 19, 2003 Sunday

JIM RAGSDALE: Austin's changing face reflects one similar to decades past

BYLINE: JIM RAGSDALE; Pioneer Press Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 677 words


The Rotary Club of Austin met last week for lunch, fellowship and a fresh
perspective on their changing city.

It was not what I expected to hear.

After loading our plates with chicken and mashed potatoes, reciting the
time-honored Rotary principles of fairness and goodwill, singing "When the
Saints Go Marching In'' and greeting members of the red-hot Austin Packers'
girls basketball team, member Roger Erickson spoke briefly.

"Of course, all of us are sons and daughters of immigrants," he said as he
introduced the speaker, Dan Donnelly, a lawyer whose specialty is immigration
law. His place of work: Austin, Minn.

His clients are from Sudan and Somalia, Yemen and Saudi Arabia, people for whom
the green card is the grail and an immigrant amnesty is devoutly to be wished.

Donnelly explained how post-Sept. 11 laws require his Arab clients to register
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, setting up a showdown with the
federal government that other nationalities can avoid. He talked about clients
showing up at an INS office at 4:30 a.m. in hopes of seeing a federal official
that day. He explained the lengthy waits legal immigrants face to get permission
for relatives to join them.

None of this is news along University Avenue in St. Paul or Lake Street in
Minneapolis. But Austin's changing demographics are more recent. Mower County's
population declined precipitously from 1960 through 1990. Then Austin showed a
6.3 percent spurt in the '90s, which officials attribute to foreign immigration.

The city of Spam and labor activism along the Cedar is still dominated by the
company begun by George A. Hormel, himself the son of German immigrants. Workers
from Africa, Mexico and Bosnia come here to work in packinghouses, much as
Germans, Italians and Poles flooded Chicago packinghouses in the late 19th
century.

The Rochester Post-Bulletin recently carried a story about members of Ethiopia's
Anuak tribe working in Austin plants and trying to focus world attention on
violence against their tribe back home.

Austin Mayor Bonnie Rietz welcomes the new arrivals and has helped put together
services to help them adjust: around-the-clock child care, low-income housing
and a Welcome Center.

Liliana Silvestry-Neilon, executive director of the Welcome Center, helps with
immigration forms and job searches and filling out money orders.

Listening to the Rotary Club immigration presentation reminded me of my own
packinghouse background. None of it involved Hormel or Austin. But the story
might be the same.

Through the benevolence of alumni, the boys in my Los Angeles high school could
get summer jobs at a central Los Angeles slaughterhouse. It was a job with good
pay and unforgettably vivid conditions. Every day was a maelstrom of steam and
frost, a riot of squealing pigs, hot-pink flesh and frozen carcasses. The
production line stretched from the train car to the freezer. Everyone had a
station. The hogs, suspended on rollers by a wooden post through the tendons of
their hind legs, floated by your spot, thousands per day.

We were the summer help. Most of the regulars were Spanish-speaking men. This
was the mid-1960s, and I believe that immigration status in southern California
was a very gray area. It was understood that these were jobs that many people in
L.A. didn't want.

"Easy money, kid!'' the regulars would shout from their butchering posts as I
swept up the floor or pushed a row of carcasses into the freezer.

The story told by attorney Dan Donnelly and my own experience are tiny parts of
a bigger American story. Chicago in the 19th century, L.A. in the 1960s and
Austin in the 21st century -- places where trainloads of hogs, local boys
needing cash and immigrants willing to do our hardest jobs converge.

In L.A., we students would come and go, off to college at our parents' expense.
Vacations, girlfriends, graduations intervened. Years passed.

And when we came back, the same men would be at their same posts on the line.
"Easy money, kid!'' they would shout as the hogs drifted by.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 2, 2003 Sunday

Immigration case creates legal stir

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1073 words


Immigration law, normally dry and arcane, gave rise in recent weeks to a
pulsequickening behind-the-scenes drama worthy of Perry Mason.

When the federal government moved to deport dozens of Somalis, it triggered
courtroom showdowns in the Twin Cities, Seattle and New Orleans.

Overnight, a cross-country network of private lawyers armed with e-mail and cell
phones and working for free, geared up to derail plans to return the Somalis to
their lawless African homeland. The results have been striking, capped by a
nationwide ban on Somali deportations ordered last month by a Seattle federal
judge.

The chief weapon, as the legal wrangling has unfolded, has been a novel legal
argument developed by Minneapolis lawyers Jeffrey Keyes and Kevin Magnuson --
challenging the legality of deporting Somalis to a country without a functioning
government to accept them, as U.S. law requires. A federal judge in Minneapolis
was the first to accept the argument last year, blocking a Minnesota Somali's
planned deportation.

In November, when immigration officials began picking up Somalis around the
country for what appeared to be imminent deportation, the Minneapolis lawyers'
argument was a ready-made monkey-wrench that attorneys in Washington state and
Louisiana used to thwart the government's plans.

As they catch their breath, those lawyers are crediting the work of their
Minnesota counterparts with helping to forestall the deportation of 2,700
Somalis nationwide at least until their homeland -- racked by civil war since
1991 -- reaches some stability.

"The specter of these people being dumped into Somalia with no travel documents,
coming from the United States and being put ... in a place where it's likely
they are going to significantly come into harm's way: That's a pretty chilling
prospect," said Keyes, of Minneapolis' Briggs & Morgan law firm, which
immigration advocates estimate has donated hundreds, if not thousands, of hours
to the case.

The refugees' lawyers and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service agree
that the Somalis who have final orders of removal -- for criminal convictions or
violations of immigration law -- will be deported someday.

The Somalis hope their courtroom victories will delay that until their country,
now largely in the hands of feuding warlords, has a functioning central
government that can accept and protect them.

With the Somali-deportation ban in place, advocates now hope to persuade judges
to release 15 to 20 Minnesota Somalis and a similar number from other states who
are still in detention.

One of the first to go free was 33-year-old Abdullahi Ahmed Farah of
Minneapolis, released Friday from the INS district office in Bloomington after
two months in custody for immigration law violation.

"This is a classic example to let our community know that in spite of the
imperfections of the system, the system works," Omar Jamal, executive di-rec-tor
of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center, said after greeting Farah. "For him to be
out is one very successful story."

Keyes said he knew he had a strong case. Research confirmed that the acceptance
requirement had been part of the law, and part of the operating instructions of
the INS, for years.

What strikes Keyes as unusual is the aggressive approach the INS has taken in
trying to remove the Somalis, even as federal judges in Minnesota, Washington
state and Louisiana ruled against the action.

"There's a statutory framework describing how this practice is supposed to take
place," said Magnuson, also of Briggs & Morgan. "It's there for a reason. One of
those reasons is you don't deport someone to a war zone because you can't ensure
someone is going to have a modicum of safety when they get there."

In Seattle, Justice Department lawyers argued that the courts had no business
second-guessing the INS in what they contended, after the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001, was a matter of national security. U.S. District Judge Marsha
Pechman said she found no credible link between any organization in Somalia and
Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist network.

The legal proceedings that have put a nationwide hold on Somali deportations
began humbly enough with the case of Keyse Jama, a 24-year-old Somali native who
built up a lengthy rap sheet after he and his family arrived in Minnesota as
refugees in 1996.

Jama spent a year in prison after pleading guilty to a third-degree assault
charge stemming from a fight in Hennepin County that substantially injured
another man. Jama's felony con-viction prompted the INS to begin removal
proceedings, and he has been in federal custody since he got out of prison in
2000.

Last March, however, U.S. District Judge John Tunheim of Minneapolis blocked
Jama's deportation. The Justice Department appealed to the 8th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals; arguments are to take place Feb. 12 in St. Paul.

The ban on Somali deportations sets a troubling precedent, said Mark Krikorian,
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C.,
which favors tighter immigration laws.

"I would suspect this is not going to stick," Krikorian said. "What this is is
immigration lawyers grasping at straws to prevent deportation under any
circumstances. Immigration lawyers are endlessly ingenious in finding ways to
prevent the enforcement of immigration laws, and this is just the latest
scheme."

The decision favoring Jama made its way to Seattle after the November detention
of several Somalis with deportation orders stirred community fears there.

A community group contacted Michele Garnett McKenzie of Minnesota Advocates for
Human Rights, who had placed Jama's case with Keyes and Magnuson. Magnuson
e-mailed documents from Jama's case to lawyers at the Seattle firm of Perkins
Coie, where lawyers quickly tailored the argument to suit their clients.

"They just cut and pasted," McKenzie said.

A short time later, Magnuson zapped the documents to Louisiana, where the INS
was staging detained Somalis for deportation.

If not for the Jama decision in hand and for a storm in Louisiana that grounded
a would-be removal flight, the Somalis probably would have been on their way
overseas.

"On that short time frame, there's no way we could have done what we did without
the arguments already being developed by the Minnesota lawyers," said Seattle
lawyer Karol Brown.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 12, 2003 Wednesday

MINNESOTA: Appeals court voids post-Sept. 11 driver's license changes

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 825 words


The Minnesota Court of Appeals on Tuesday struck down new driver's license rules
adopted in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, including a requirement
for applicants to prove they are citizens or legal immigrants.

The ruling let stand a controversial policy that lets the Department of Public
Safety track foreign visitors by putting the words "Status Check" and the dates
their visas expire on their licenses.

A three-judge panel overturned the new administrative rules on procedural
grounds, faulting the Department of Public Safety's use of emergency authority
to impose the new rules without submitting them for public review. In light of
the terrorist attacks, the judges agreed the threat to the public "arguably
might be both serious and immediate" but found that the agency did not make a
strong enough case to justify using the emergency procedures.

The decision is the latest turn in a continuing debate pitting some public
safety officials and proponents of tighter immigration policies against a
coalition of civil liberties advocates and immigrants rights groups. The
driver's license issue also played a role in last year's gubernatorial election,
with then-candidate Tim Pawlenty campaigning in favor of the status check
requirements.

The rules overturned Tuesday had limited the type of documents applicants could
present to get a license and required an unobscured, full-face photo on the
license. They also required people who had not held a Minnesota license to
provide birth certificates, federally issued identification cards or passports.

Under the previous rules, which would go back into use if the decision is not
appealed, some people could get licenses with no photos.

The old rules also allowed new Minnesotans to use a broader range of documents,
including a license from another state, when applying for a license here.

Tuesday's decision created some uncertainty about whether the disputed "status
check" policy, which took effect with the other rules last July, remained in
force.

Charlie Weaver, the former public safety commissioner who used his emergency
authority to push the new rules through, and current Public Safety Commissioner
Rich Stanek both said the decision would not affect the state's ability to put
the special markings on temporary immigrants' licenses.

However, Chuck Samuelson, executive director of the Minnesota Civil Liberties
Union, one of several advocacy groups that challenged the new rules in the
lawsuit that led to Tuesday's ruling, said he believed the decision indirectly
ended the "status check" policy.

Because the court struck down the requirement for foreign visitors to provide
immigration information, officials no longer will know their visa expiration
dates, Samuelson said.

Without those dates, officials no longer will have a basis for stamping "status
check" on foreign visitors' licenses. Samuelson said he believed foreign
visitors who already had "status check" on their licenses would still be subject
to that policy.

"If you go in tomorrow, they can't put 'status check' on a new license,"
Samuelson said.

The Department of Public Safety's Web site reflected the uncertainty, with a
note on the Driver and Vehicle Services' identification and residency
requirements page stating: "This information is being updated. Please check back
on March 12."

Pawlenty said the ruling only lends weight to his call for a new law -- not a
rule -- to change Minnesota's driver's license procedures.

The ruling, he said, attacks the way in which the rules were put into effect,
not the need for the rules themselves.

"It doesn't address the merits of the issue.

"But, in an odd way, it gives more need for the bill than ever because the
administrative option for now isn't going to be available and the legislative
route is going to be more important than ever," said Pawlenty.

The Minnesota House has passed a bill this year containing the license changes;
the Senate has not yet acted on a similar bill.

Weaver, now Pawlenty's chief of staff, said he thinks the state should appeal
the ruling. Attorney General Mike Hatch declined to comment.

Welcoming the ruling were immigrant advocates such as Pablo Tapia, chairman of
the Joint Committee on Immigration for Isaiah, a coalition of church
congregations in the Twin Cities and St. Cloud.

"It's a step forward, to demonstrate to the public that we don't need to fight
this war against terrorism on the backs of immigrants," Tapia said.

Vic Rosenthal, executive director of Jewish Community Action, one of the
agency's that brought the lawsuit challenging the license rules, called the
ruling a victory.

"We don't believe these rules will make citizens any safer," Rosenthal said.
"There isn't a reason to tie driver's licenses to immigration rules."

Staff writer Rachel E. Stassen-Berger contributed to this report. Todd Nelson
can be reached at tanelson@pioneer press.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 22, 2000 Friday CITY EDITION

6 CUBAN CRASH SURVIVORS RELEASED TO JOIN FAMILIES

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, FLA.


Immigration officials cleared the way Thursday for all nine Cubans who survived
a plane crash at sea to stay in the United States and seek residency. Six of the
survivors were released from the Krome Detention Center and taken to a clinic
for a medical checkup. They then were released to family members in Miami,
attorney Roberto Villasante said. All were paroled to the United States,
allowing them to apply for residency, said Patricia Mancha, spokeswoman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. That process can begin next September.
Parole also was expected for the remaining survivors, 6-year-old Andy Fuentes
and his parents.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 26, 2000 Tuesday MINNESOTA EDITION

FORUM TODAY WILL LET IMMIGRANTS EXPLORE RECENT LEGAL CHANGES;
STATE MANDATE LIKELY TO DRAW MANY QUESTIONS

BYLINE: Todd Nelson Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 311 words


In seven languages, including English, immigrants tonight can learn about legal
changes that may affect them and their families.

Immigration law experts will discuss the changes and answer questions - with
help from translators speaking Cambodian, Hmong, Somali, Spanish, Vietnamese and
Oromo, the language of some refugees from Ethiopia.

The meeting takes place from 6:30 to 9 p.m. in the auditorium at St. Paul
Central High School at 275 N. Lexington Parkway. The sponsors are Civil Society,
a nonprofit agency that provides legal advice to crime victims with a focus on
immigrants; Neighborhood Justice Center Inc.; and the immigration law section of
the Minnesota State Bar Association.

In any language, organizers expect many who attend will want to know about a
Minnesota law that next year will require state health care and welfare workers
to report illegal immigrants to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said Linda Miller, executive director of Civil Society.

"The reason we want to publicize the new law is so people can clean up any
problems they have," Miller said. "It isn't black and white for a lot of people
whether they are legal or illegal. It isn't that they're all raving criminals.
But they need to be motivated to see if they do have problems."

The state Department of Human Services, which lobbied against the new reporting
requirement, is considering asking legislators to reconsider the legislation,
said Chuck Johnson, director of the department's Families With Children
Division.

"We continue to have concerns that the requirements for reporting to the INS
would have the effect of causing some parents not to apply for assistance for
their children, when their children are citizens and eligible for benefits,"
Johnson said.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version appeared in City Edition on Page 2B.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 31, 2000 Sunday CITY EDITION

LOCAL INS OFFICE WINS PRAISE FOR EFFICIENCY;
IMMIGRATION LAWYERS RANK U.S. OFFICE PERFORMANCES

BYLINE: Todd Nelson Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 839 words


Allan Neoh had a busy December, finishing his master's degree, starting work at
computer hard drive manufacturer Seagate and applying for a green card.

A native of Malaysia, Neoh didn't expect to get approval to apply for the card,
which grants permanent residency in the United States, for another six months or
a year.

"I'm surprised it went through as fast as it did," Neoh said last week as he
waited to talk to an officer at the St. Paul district office of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The prompt turnaround may have taken Neoh aback but appears to be typical of the
St. Paul district, which covers Minnesota and the Dakotas. The district ranked
among the best of 45 INS district offices across the country in the average
number of days spent processing green cards, according to a report card released
this month by the independent American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Despite a favorable review of processing times, in some cases inexplicable
delays still occur, immigration attorneys said.

The local office, which moved to Bloomington years ago but retains the name of
its former downtown St. Paul location, also had one of the best averages for
processing filings for naturalization, the process by which a permanent resident
becomes a citizen, according to the report card.

On average, 90 to 150 days elapsed between filing for a green card at the St.
Paul office and approval. For naturalization, the average processing time here
from filing until swearing-in was 120 to 180 days.

"Every time I've been here it's been quite smooth, things have gone very well,"
said Neoh, who arrived in Minnesota 11 years ago to study at Bemidji State
University and, after marrying and having a son here, hopes to settle in the
Twin Cities.

Elsewhere, at INS district offices big and small, applicants can wait for years
for documents to go through, according to the report card. In Houston,
applicants waited an average of 3 1/2 years for a green card and close to 2 1/2
years for naturalization. The wait in Milwaukee averaged 2 1/2 years for a green
card and almost a year for naturalization.

While Houston is one of the country's busiest INS offices, Milwaukee's caseload
is smaller than St. Paul's, which ranks in the middle nationally, said John
Klow, assistant district director for examinations for the St. Paul district.

The delays have prompted Congress to pass a bill that included a provision
calling on the INS to eliminate its paperwork backlog by the end of 2001, and to
process naturalization and other forms within six months.

Milwaukee's continuing problems likely will lead to an announcement soon that
residents of several western Wisconsin counties will be able to file INS forms
in the Twin Cities, said Dean Hove, deputy director of the St. Paul district.

"In the kind of work we do, you're always just on the edge of getting snowed
under," Hove said. The local office has avoided that, Hove said, thanks to the
work ethic of its staff and to an emphasis on staying on top of routine cases.
Local INS administrators also meet routinely with attorneys and representatives
of immigrant communities in an effort to smooth out problems.

"We're continually looking for ways to do better, and this is an indication to
us that our efforts so far are probably on the right track," Klow said. "Not
that we're perfect by a long shot. Individual problems can arise in any given
case, and we have cases that can take much longer than the times you see on the
chart."

Immigration attorneys in the Twin Cities said the report card generally was an
accurate reflection of the experience their clients have had with the local INS
office, though it's not without its problems.

"It's pretty scary that this is one of the best offices in the United States,
though we are fortunate to have it because you hear awful things about other INS
offices," said Jennifer Prestholdt, director of the refugee and immigrant
program at Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights.

Scott Wright, a Minneapolis attorney and chairman of the local immigration
lawyers association chapter, praised INS officials for their willingness to
listen.

"There are still issues and problems to be dealt with," Wright said. "They may
not do everything we think they ought to, but in contrast to many INS offices
around the country, I have to applaud their efforts to make progress."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

FYI
Visit the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's St. Paul district office
on the Internet at www.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/fieldoffices/ stpaul/index.htm
View the complete report card at http://visalaw.com/localtimes.html

peaks with an immigrant applying for permanent residence in the United States.
Located in Bloomington, the local INS office ranked among the best of 45 INS
district offices in the average number of days spent processing green cards,
according to a recent report by the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 photos: Joe Oden, Pioneer Press
Naser Abushanab, who is from Jordan and lives in St. Louis, received
his green card within 20 minutes of having his photo taken at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's St. Paul district office.
Barb Carlson, an information officer with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service's St. Paul district, speaks with an immigrant
applying for permanent residence in the United States. Located in
Bloomington, the local INS office ranked among the best of 45 INS
district offices in the average number of days spent processing green
cards, according to a recent report by the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.
Graphic: Pioneer Press
Dealing with documents
(see microfilm)

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 20, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

ARGENTINE ADOPTEE IS SPARED DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Ruben Rosario, Staff Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 690 words


Miracles don't just happen on 34th Street, or on a sports field, or in a
hospital or a church. They sometimes happen inside a nondescript federal
immigration detention center in the middle of Bloomington, Minn.

In a stunning turnabout that a federal immigration judge characterized as
"rather unprecedented," local U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials on Thursday halted deportation proceedings against a 25-year-old
Argentine-born woman who was illegally adopted as an infant by an American
couple and raised in this country.

Marisa Patricia Carlson faced imminent deportation after she was caught trying
to buy groceries with a forged check at a Rainbow Foods store in Maplewood early
last year, her second felony in two years. Nonviolent felonies committed by
noncitizens were included among a variety of deportable offenses under a
controversial retooling of federal immigration laws in 1996.

On Thursday, however, INS officials agreed not to deport Carlson if she
successfully undergoes long-term drug treatment and remains crime-free,
according to INS officials.

"This is unbelievable," Carlson said after learning of the decision. "It's all
up to me now to change. I know this is my last chance."

Carlson, who blames a crack cocaine addiction for much of her criminal behavior,
had received a one-time deportation reprieve two years ago from Immigration
Judge Joseph Dierkes after she committed her first felony by trying to buy
merchandise at the Mall of America with a stolen credit card. She was warned she
would be deported if she reoffended. Carlson has served state prison and jail
time for both offenses.

Twenty-five years ago, Gary Carlson, now a real estate agent in Apple Valley,
paid a midwife $300 for the infant girl, partly out of a desire to adopt a
second child and also out of fear that the orphan girl would get swept up by a
rising tide of political unrest in Argentina.

"I'm not against her paying for her crimes," Gary Carlson told me in a column
published April 2 in the Pioneer Press. "But this seems unfair. She was raised
here. She can't speak a word of Spanish. She has no one in Argentina. I may
never see her again if this happens."

Carlson, a single mother who transferred guardianship of her 4-year old daughter
to her adoptive mother in Michigan, seemed resigned to her fate. But her plight
struck a mixed chord with many readers.

Parishioners at the Church of the Risen Savior in Burnsville mounted a
letter-writing campaign and expressed their concerns over the case to INS
district director Curtis Aljets, U.S. Sens. Paul Wellstone and Mark Dayton and
other office-holders.

In the end, the unlikely miracle worker turned out to be the same entity that
launched deportation proceedings against her. Although Marisa Carlson's second
felony conviction erased any further judicial reprieve, Congress allows INS
officials discretion on a case-by-case basis. Such discretions occur before
proceedings are conducted, which makes Marisa's 11th-hour reprieve a rarity.

"I'm speechless," said Karen Ellingson, a veteran immigration lawyer and
executive director of the Immigrant Law Center in St. Paul who appeared with
Carlson. "This is virtually unheard of, given her circumstance." Aljets received
75 letters as well as a petition signed by 20 Twin Cities residents.

"I could have removed her and just let it be," Aljets said. "But we felt that
she had not been given a fair chance to redeem herself and get into a drug
treatment program. We also acknowledged that she wasn't a party to the
circumstances of how she was brought to this country.

"She's still not home free," Aljets stressed. "We've just given her a second
chance to turn her life around."

Carlson will remain in INS custody until she is placed in a treatment facility
within two weeks.

Carlson, her face smeared with tears and her hands cuffed in front of her, tried
to hug her father, her fiance and other supporters after the hearing.

"This is like a miracle from heaven," her father said. "It's all up to her now."

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Carlson

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 24, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

SERVING TIME DOESN'T MEAN YOU'LL GET YOUR FREEDOM;
DEPORTABLE SOUTHEAST ASIANS ARE BEING HELD INDEFINITELY BY INS

BYLINE: HANNAH ALLAM Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 947 words


Fu Joseph Heu expected the 32 years in prison a Dakota County judge gave him
last week for killing his wife.

He didn't expect a life sentence, which is what he faces under a federal
immigration law that leaves Hmong and other Southeast Asian offenders like Heu
in legal limbo.

If Heu were virtually any other nationality, he would be deported after serving
his time. But because Laos won't take him back, Heu is destined to become what
the Immigration and Naturalization Service calls a "lifer" -- one of the 2,700
deportable immigrants held indefinitely nationwide after their sentences are
completed. INS officials say the extended detentions prevent noncitizen felons
from fleeing or committing other crimes. Immigration attorneys argue that the
system violates human rights.

"We have a law that keeps people in prison after they've paid their debt to
society," said Kyle White, a defense attorney who will represent Heu on appeal.
"Nobody cares because these are Hmong immigrants who have committed a crime."

The INS detainees are not just Hmong. Countries such as Cuba, Cambodia, Vietnam
and, in some cases, Somalia also refuse to accept deportees. Because of its
large refugee populations, Minnesota is fairly unique in its number of extended
detentions, said INS Deputy District Director Dean Hove. More than 60 such
detainees are imprisoned in Rush City or jailed in Carver and Sherburne
counties, he said.

Heu's fate may change by the time he is eligible for release in 21 years. The
U.S. Supreme Court, which heard oral arguments on the issue in February, could
rule any day on whether the INS can indefinitely detain convicted felons
awaiting deportation. There also is talk that Laos and Vietnam are closer to
establishing deportation arrangements with the United States, although
immigration attorneys say there has been little progress.

Rush City

Of the 140 or so INS detainees in Minnesota, 67 are "lifers," Hove said. Their
situation came about as a result of a 1996 law passed by Congress that took away
judges' discretion to allow some potential deportees to be released pending
their hearings.

Most languish in the 130-bed INS wing of the new state prison in Rush City,
supported by taxpayers at $75 a day per prisoner. The majority are Southeast
Asian, but there are also prisoners from Guyana, South Africa, Ethiopia, Iran
and China. One man's country of citizenship is still listed as "U.S.S.R."
because no one in the former Soviet Union will claim him, Hove said.

Many more detainees would be in Rush City if it weren't for a parole program
established in 1999 after a flurry of lawsuits across the nation. Attorneys
complained that people who had served sentences for nonviolent crimes were still
being held without bond by the INS. Under the new policy, the INS began weeding
out the immigrants with minor criminal records for possible supervised release.
So far, 54 have been freed in Minnesota.

For the most part, those who remain in Rush City are guilty of aggravated
felonies such as drug offenses, rape, domestic assault and murder -- crimes for
which they have already served sentences. But even those who have served their
time on less serious offenses sometimes spend many more months -- or years -- in
prison, said Catherine Middlebrook, an assistant state public defender who
represents several clients on indefinite hold.

There was the 18-year-old Hmong man who served a year in prison on assault
charges stemming from a fight, then spent two extra years in INS detainment,
Middlebrook said. Another 18-year-old Hmong man is still in detention after
serving two years for throwing a Molotov cocktail at an empty car.

Middlebrook is also preparing a Hmong woman in her 20s for the inevitable INS
detainment that comes after her sentence is complete on a first-degree assault
charge.

"For many, it's a shock that they are not going to get out," she said. "They
don't understand. They're angry, upset. They never make it to the street."

Because the parole program is so new, the INS does not track recidivism rates,
but Hove said he would expect a political backlash if a released offender were
arrested again.

"What risk do we pose when we decide somebody's not a danger and then they go
commit an atrocious crime?" Hove asked. "We take this very seriously. We review
the cases extensively and try to make consistent, fair decisions."

No second chance

Karen Ellingson, executive director of the Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota,
said educating teens about indefinite detainment will help them stay out of
trouble. Six months ago, the center produced a 20-minute video on the subject
called "No Second Chance."

Three teen-age boys -- from Lebanon, Vietnam and Cambodia -- were interviewed in
prison. All three spoke English and had spent most of their lives in the United
States. None of the three had any idea that his nonviolent property offense
would lead to a cell in Rush City. The Lebanese boy has since been deported, and
the other two are now on supervised release.

Ellingson recently showed the video to 250 Somali students at Roosevelt High
School in Minneapolis. The room grew silent and hands flew up with questions at
the end. The kids wanted to know whether schoolyard fights or juvenile records
jeopardized them, Ellingson said. They were shocked to learn that even permanent
residents and refugees are at risk of indefinite detainment.

"It was a sobering event," she said. "Community and social service agencies are
surprised that young people can get into this situation so quickly and that
absolutely nothing can be done."

Hannah Allam can be reached at hallam@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 29, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

RULING MAY AID CERTAIN IMPRISONED IMMIGRANTS;
U.S. JUSTICES REJECT INDEFINITE DETENTION

BYLINE: PHILLIP PINA STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 702 words


A U.S. Supreme Court ruling Thursday could bring hope, and possibly freedom, to
some of the more than 60 immigrants convicted of crimes who are languishing in
Minnesota prisons awaiting an unlikely deportation.

The decision likely affects deportable immigrants whose home countries either
will not accept them or no longer exist. They have served their sentences but
remain in a legal limbo -- and imprisoned.

"They are stuck between two countries," said Leslie Karam, an attorney who
represents immigrants.

Justices rejected, by a 5-4 vote, the government's argument that convicted
immigrants ordered deported have diminished liberties because they have no legal
right to live in the country. Some of the convicted immigrants are stateless, or
were born in countries such as Cuba, Cambodia and Laos, which have no
repatriation agreements with the United States.

Immigrant advocates applauded the ruling. But it was not clear Thursday just how
it would change the situations of those immigrants. Officials don't expect them
to be released immediately.

"It will cause us to carefully review our cases," said Dean Hove, the retiring
deputy district director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in
St. Paul. But it is unclear if it will force the office to operate differently.

Immigration lawyers say Thursday's ruling opened the way for legal challenges to
prolonged imprisonment.

A 1996 law passed by Congress requires that noncitizens convicted of several
felonies, including most types of drug crimes, be deported. But the law did not
spell out what to do if the immigrants are from a country that will not take
them back. And it took away a judge's discretion to release potential deportees
pending hearings. So the immigrants sat in prisons.

In Minnesota, which has had a recent influx of new immigrants, more than 60 INS
detainees face the same situation. A few have won their release by challenging
their imprisonment in federal court.

Lawyers are anxious to see what the INS will do in response to the ruling, said
Karen Ellingson, executive director of the Immigration Law Center of Minnesota.
Options range from changing policy to review cases at six months to allow some
sort of supervised release, to fighting each case in federal court, she said.

Justice Stephen Breyer's majority opinion said that after six months, if
deportation were not likely in the "reasonable foreseeable future," the
government would have to present special reasons to keep a person imprisoned.
Aliens could show they are unlikely to be deported and the government would have
to rebut that showing to continue imprisonment.

"It has nothing to do with the underlying crime," Ellingson said. "It's due
process. We can't just continue to hold people without a specific case." While
the decision may help free immigrants from prolonged prison stays, the aliens
still face deportation if situations in their home country change. And they
could face INS supervision while out of prison.

Thursday's decision, on the combined cases of Kestutis Zadvydas and Kim Ho Ma,
was the second this week for immigrants. The court ruled Monday that aliens
convicted of certain crimes are entitled to a court hearing before they are
deported.

Zadvydas was born in an area of postwar Germany that later became part of
Lithuania. He came to the United States as a child in the mid-1950s, and lived
as a permanent legal resident. He was convicted in Fairfax County, Va., of
possessing cocaine with intent to distribute and served a two-year sentence. He
was detained after his release in 1994, because neither Germany nor Lithuania
would take him.

Ma and his family left Cambodia as refugees when he was 2. He grew up as a
permanent legal resident of the United States but never became a citizen.
Convicted of manslaughter in 1996 in a Seattle drive-by gang shooting, he served
more than two years in state prison and nearly three more years in the custody
of the INS.

Both Zadvydas and Ma were freed from INS detention after they sued and judges
ordered their release.

The Associated Press and New York Times contributed to this report. Phillip Pina
can be reached at ppina@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2162.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 10, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

HURTADO WINS INS APPEAL IMMIGRANT FROM EL SALVADOR HOPES 19-YEAR FIGHT TO STAY
IN U.S. IS ENDING

BYLINE: LUCY QUINLIVAN, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 529 words


A Salvadoran immigrant who has been fighting for 19 years to stay in the United
States has won what he hopes is his final round against the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Rene Hurtado, a member of the Treasury Police during his homeland's civil war,
learned Thursday that the U.S. Justice Department's Board of Immigration Appeals
upheld a September 1999 trial court that suspended his deportation.

The appeals board said Hurtado, whose real name is Gonzalo Jesus de Larin-Lara,
convincingly rebutted evidence from the INS that he participated in war crimes
and persecuted people during the war. The INS' evidence -- newspaper articles
for which Hurtado was interviewed through Spanish-speaking interpreters --
contained inherently untrustworthy, unsworn statements, the board said.

"The Immigration Judge found that the incident (Hurtado) admitted occurred --
having intercourse with a woman when he was on duty as a bribe to let her go --
was troubling, but not by itself sufficient to warrant a discretionary denial,"
a board member wrote. "While we regard this incident as extremely troubling, we
note that (it) occurred more than 20 years ago in the context of a civil war.

"Since that time, the respondent spent several years speaking out to try and
stop the abuses of the war."

Tim Counts, a spokesman for the INS in Bloomington, said the agency's lawyers
have not had a chance to fully review the decision or decide what, if any,
action to take next.

Counts said the INS could ask the 21-member Board of Immigration Appeals to
review the three-judge panel's decision. If that request is denied, he said, the
INS could ask for review by the U.S. attorney general. He, in turn, could take
the case to the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

Hurtado hopes now to see his father before he dies.

"My mother died and I wasn't able to visit her," said Hurtado. He wouldn't have
been allowed back in the United States if he had gone to Costa Rica to see his
mother, who died in February 2000. "I was kind of feeling that each day that
goes by, the possibility I will not see my father alive again has been growing.
But this gives me a new life, in a way."

Hurtado, now 43, married and the father of two, found refuge with St. Luke
Presbyterian Church in Minnetonka in 1982. He spoke out publicly against U.S.
intervention in El Salvador for years, but a red bandana hid his face. His
family fled to Costa Rica with the help of St. Luke parishioners after he
revealed his identity.

He earned a bachelor of arts degree at the University of Minnesota, taking a
double major in political science and history and a minor in Latin American
studies. He started law school a few years ago, but dropped out after he learned
the INS was taking his case to trial.

"Frankly, the INS' conduct has been shameful, in my view," said Ron Rosenbaum,
Hurtado's lawyer. "This man should have been allowed to get on with his life and
become a legal citizen years ago.

"He ... took responsibility even beyond what he participated in, and I think
he's been punished for it ever since."

Lucy Quinlivan can be reached at lquinlivan@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5485.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIONEER PRESS FILE PHOTO
Rene Hurtado hugged his son Ariel in September 1999 after an immigration
hearing in Bloomington. Hurtado has fought deportation -- and allegations of
committing war crimes with the military in El Salvador -- since 1982.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 15, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

MAN QUESTIONED, MOVED FROM SHERBURNE JAIL;
IMMIGRANT TRIED TO BUY FLIGHT SIMULATOR TIME AND TRAINING AT EAGAN FACILITY

BYLINE: DOUG PETERS, RICK LINSK and PAUL TOSTO, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 852 words


A man held in the Sherburne County jail on immigration charges since mid-August
has become a focus of an FBI investigation into possible Minnesota links to this
week's terrorist attacks.

The Pioneer Press has learned that Zacarias Moussaoui, 33, who initially refused
to answer questions after Tuesday's attack and requested a lawyer, now has been
questioned by authorities. Moussaoui left the jail Friday in INS custody, jail
officials said, presumably bound for another facility and more questioning.

Moussaoui, a former flight student, tried last month to purchase training
sessions on a commercial airline flight simulator owned by Northwest Airlines in
Eagan and run by a Florida flight school whose records are being investigated by
the FBI. He was detained by immigration officials Aug. 17.

Law enforcement officials have not released any information linking Moussaoui to
Tuesday's attacks.

Officials at Moussaoui's former flight school, Airman Flight School in Norman,
Okla., said Friday that their offices -- like the offices of many U.S. flight
schools -- had been inundated by federal agents who confiscated the records of
Moussaoui and other students. Despite that, admissions director Brenda Keene was
able to patch together some details Friday.

Keene recalled mailing immigration forms to Moussaoui at a foreign address, but
couldn't recall what country.

When he arrived at the school on Feb. 26, Moussaoui presented a French passport
with a 2002 expiration date, Keene said. He couldn't pay the $4,995 fee for his
private pilot's license course up front, Keene said. A few days later, he paid
half the bill in cash. Later, he paid the balance with a check drawn on a local
account.

He failed to earn a license in his three-month stint at the school and left
abruptly, leaving no forwarding address. Where he lived for the next two and a
half months is a mystery.

Moussaoui apparently turned up next at Pan Am International Flight Academy in
Miami, where he asked about jetliner training. He was referred to the Northwest
simulator in Eagan, where he arrived on Aug. 17. He has been in federal custody
since.

QUESTIONS OF IDENTITY

Meanwhile, residents of a St. Paul neighborhood tried to come to grips with
reports that a man who visited his brother there last year may have been one of
the hijackers in this week's New York terrorist attacks.

Neighbors said they had virtually no contact with Ali Saeed Alamri, a Saudi
Arabian student who moved to St. Paul for nine months to study English. They
also said they never saw his brother, Abdulrahman Saeed Alomari, named in some
accounts as among the hijackers in the first deadly strike on the World Trade
Center.

Alomari, 38, helped his younger brother get settled as a boarder in a home on
Berkeley Avenue in St. Paul's Macalester-Groveland neighborhood, according to
the homeowner and the president of a home-placement service for foreign
students. The homeowner says Alomari never stayed on Berkeley Avenue. State
records show he used the address when he obtained a Minnesota identification
card on Feb. 22, 2000.

Alomari lived in a home in Vero Beach, Fla., according to public records
databases; the landlord there says he left abruptly on Sept. 3. FBI agents
searched that house for 12 hours on Wednesday. Records show the same birth date
for the Alomari at the Florida and St. Paul addresses. Records searches suggest
Ali Alamri also shared the Vero Beach address last year.

It is unclear why Alomari wanted the Minnesota identification card. Sherry
Sandey, president of an agency that placed Ali Alamri in the St. Paul home, said
Alomari stayed for a time in a Day's Inn Hotel in Bloomington. A Day's Inn
manager refused comment Friday.

Various reports made Friday about Alomari included slight variations on his
first name, raising questions about whether officials were labeling the right
man as among the hijackers. The Boston Globe reported Thursday night that his
name was on a passenger manifest, even listing his seat assignment. But when the
FBI released the first list of hijackers' names, Abdulrahman Saeed Alomari was
not on it. Instead, the agency listed an Abdulaziz Alomari, with two different
possible birthdates that would make him either 28 or 22 years old.

In any event, talk of terrorism seemed out of place on the quiet tree-lined
street where Ali Alamri lived from January to early November 2000. Residents are
concerned that neighbor Mary Rottach, who has housed foreign students for years,
not endure any harassment or retaliation.

Alamri and the other students have always come and gone quietly, interacting
very little with the neighbors, said Mary Pate, who lives next door to the home.
"I've never had a neighborly conversation with anyone -- at most, a neighborly
nod," Pate said.

Another nearby neighbor, who declined to give her name, admitted to some
jitters.

"This is freaky," she said. "I didn't sleep very well last night after we saw it
on the news ... It used to be the safest neighborhood in the city."

Rick Linsk can be reached at rlinsk@pioneerpress.com or (651)228-5371.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Aftermath: Investigation

GRAPHIC: Photo
Zacarias Moussaoui

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 1, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

U.S. BOLSTERS SCREENING OF LIKELY SUSPECTS;
ASHCROFT ASSAILS REPORT OF MIDWEST ARRESTS

BYLINE: LENNY SAVINO,Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 630 words


WASHINGTON -- Attorney General John Ashcroft announced Wednesday sweeping
changes in immigration policy, including how a new task force will prevent
terrorists from entering the United States and track them down if they do.

"These measures form one part of the concentrated strategy to prevent terrorist
attacks," Ashcroft said, "by taking suspected terrorists off the street."

The Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force, led by Steven McCraw, an assistant
director of the FBI's Intelligence Branch, will have this key objective: Make
sure that federal agencies -- the FBI, Immigration and Naturalization Service,
CIA, State Department and Customs Service -- share vital information.

Ashcroft said he did not have knowledge of a Knight Ridder report Tuesday that
police and INS officials had questioned and released six Middle Eastern men in
the Midwest who had been carrying information about strategic U.S. energy
sources -- including Florida nuclear plants and the Trans-Alaska pipeline.

"That's a story and nothing more," Ashcroft said. "I don't have any reason to
believe it to be true. It was noted (in the story) that I had responded
emotionally to this situation, when, as a matter of fact, I hadn't even known
about the situation."

A senior law enforcement official told Knight Ridder on Wednesday that the
information on the six men was in the classified Daily Threat Report earlier
this week, which is compiled from different sources by the Counter-Terrorism
Center at the CIA and distributed to selected officials at the FBI and other
agencies.

The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said police released the men
after the INS determined they were in the United States legally and had valid
Israeli passports.

Russ Bergeron, INS spokesman in Washington, issued a statement that said "the
INS and the FBI have thoroughly researched the story published today in the
Miami Herald and other Knight Ridder newspapers. Both INS and the FBI believe
this report is totally false. Neither INS nor the FBI has any record of any kind
of such encounter or any incident that even remotely resembles such an encounter
this past weekend."

Bergeron said the "FBI has stated unequivocally that they have issued no
bulletin or alert out looking for these six men who were allegedly involved in
this incident."

An FBI spokesman in Washington, who asked not to be identified, said: "We are
completely unaware of the information."

Ashcroft's latest effort to coordinate federal agencies comes after a round of
congressional hearings disclosed that many of the 19 hijackers, even those with
known links to terrorist networks, entered with legal student or visitor visas.

The hearings also disclosed that federal agencies that screen and process
immigrants are not connected by computer networks to share information.

Ashcroft said the task force will coordinate information so that if the CIA
knows that someone who applies for a student visa is a terrorist, the State
Department will have access to that information and deny the application.

The State Department also will be tasked with screening visa applicants overseas
more closely. Suspicious applicants will have to undergo "security advisory
opinions and background investigations by the FBI and CIA."

Under the new U.S.A. Patriot Act, signed into law by President Bush last week,
visas will be denied to applicants who are members of groups that endorse
terrorist activity and anyone who has provided "material support to designated
terrorist organizations," Ashcroft said.

The Justice Department has an extensive list of terrorist groups. It named 46 of
them Wednesday, including the Palestinian and Turkish Hezbollah, the Libyan
Islamic Fighting Group and the Islamic Deterrence Force.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE WAR ON TERRORISM

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    November 15, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION SERVICE TO GET A MAJOR OVERHAUL;
LAW ENFORCEMENT, IMMIGRANT ASSISTANCE ROLES OFTEN CONFLICT

BYLINE: KEVIN MURPHY and LENNY SAVINO,Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 638 words


WASHINGTON -- Attorney General John Ashcroft announced a major reshaping of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service on Wednesday, creating separate bureaus
for law enforcement and immigrant services.

The move comes a week after Ashcroft ordered a reorganization of the FBI to
focus on preventing terrorism and two months after terrorist attacks exposed
widespread problems with INS abilities to track immigrants.

"The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 underscored in the most painful way for
Americans that we need better control over individuals coming to our shores from
other nations," Ashcroft said Wednesday.

"We remain a nation committed to welcoming America's friends from abroad, but we
have a new determination not to see our welcome abused by America's enemies."

Of 19 hijackers identified in the Sept. 11 attacks, 13 had entered the United
States legally. There are no entry records for the other six.

Ashcroft said the INS, whose performance has long been criticized by Congress
and immigration lawyers, lacks "clear lines of authority." He promised lawmakers
more details on the proposal today. The reorganization's principal change is a
new Bureau of Immigration Enforcement to oversee issues involving intelligence,
investigations and foreigners here illegally.

"The Immigration and Naturalization Service has struggled to perform two
often-competing missions," Ashcroft said. One is to welcome immigrants and the
other is to enforce laws, he said.

Last year, the INS and its Border Patrol processed about 550 million border
crossings. Of those, about 330 million who crossed were non-Americans.

The new INS Bureau of Immigration Services, Ashcroft said, will focus on helping
immigrants navigate an often-confusing array of rules, laws, applications, forms
and programs.

The INS will remain under control of one commissioner.

Restructuring will start immediately and be completed in about two years.
Legislation is not necessary, although Congress approves the INS budget and
Ashcroft promised that the Justice Department "will be working with the
Congress" on the changes.

Sen. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
criticized the restructuring as inadequate.

"Quite simply, it does not go far enough for the rescue mission that is needed
-- both on the enforcement side and immigration services side," he said.

The reorganization comes as the Justice Department attempts to interview about
5,000 immigrants who might know something about terrorist plots against the
United States. Civil rights advocates criticized that sweeping plan Tuesday and
again Wednesday.

According to Ashcroft, the Justice Department has compiled a list of 5,000 men
between the ages of 18 and 33 who entered the United States from countries where
terrorism is sponsored or organized. Justice divided the 5,000 according to the
geography of the 94 U.S. Attorney's offices nationwide. Their personnel are
expected to interview their portion of the 5,000 within 30 days.

Although no one can be forced to give an interview and Ashcroft said "these
individuals were not selected in order to single out a particular ethnic or
religious group," the plan drew sharp criticism Wednesday from the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, based in Washington.

The group said that using age, gender and national origin as a basis for the
interviews "smacks of racial profiling and is open to serious abuse if civil
liberties are not respected."

The American Civil Liberties Union, based in New York, called the plan "a
dragnet approach" that comes on the heels of other alleged Justice Department
abuses of immigrant rights, such as a refusal to release details on hundreds of
people now detained. The premise of their arrest was that they could be linked
to terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE WAR ON TERRORISM

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 18, 2001 Sunday EARLY EDITION

TUNISIAN FLIGHT STUDENTS ARE KICKED OUT OF U.S.;
NO CONNECTION WITH SEPT. 11 ATTACKS SEEN

BYLINE: PETE YOST, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 387 words


WASHINGTON -- Three Tunisians attending flight schools in Florida, including a
student who acknowledged knowing a roommate of terrorist hijacker Mohamed
Atta's, were ordered deported last week.

None of the students were accused of being connected to the Sept. 11 attacks.

The FBI noted in a letter, however, that Maryem Bedoui, 21, had attended flight
schools in Venice and Punta Gorda about the same time that hijackers Atta and
Marwan Al-Shehhi, had trained at a nearby flight school.

During a deportation hearing Thursday on immigration violations in Bradenton,
Fla., Bedoui told Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh that she was friends with
one of Atta's roommates, but she denied knowing Atta.

The immigration judge ordered Mohamed Kharbech and Nabil Ferchichi, both of whom
had been in the United States about a year, to leave by the end of the month.
Bedoui also was ordered deported once a shoplifting charge against her is
resolved.

"In ordinary times this may not be such a big thing," the judge said during the
deportation hearing. "But these are not ordinary times."

All three said they were the victims of flight schools that misinformed them of
immigration rules and took tens of thousands of dollars without providing
training.

In Virginia, an attorney said his Saudi client who was arrested the night of
Sept. 11 near Dulles Airport, where one of the hijackers' flights originated,
will plead guilty to a criminal charge that has nothing to do with the terrorist
attacks.

The government is dropping a second charge and Khalid al-Draibi would spend only
a few months in jail under federal sentencing guidelines after he pleads guilty
Monday in Alexandria, Va., said attorney Drew Hutcheson Jr.

Al-Draibi passed two FBI polygraph examinations in which he denied any links to
terrorists and denied knowing anything about the Sept. 11 attacks, said
Hutcheson.

Police pulled him over for driving on a bare wheel rim 13 miles south of Dulles,
where American Airlines Flight 77 that crashed into the Pentagon had taken off
from earlier in the day. Flight manuals were found in al-Draibi's car, and he
carried driver's licenses from eight states. Hutcheson said the plea will be to
a charge of making a false statement on a visa application. Al-Draibi has been
in custody since Sept. 11.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 10, 2002 Thursday CITY EDITION

BUSH BUDGET WOULD RESTORE FOOD STAMPS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: PHILIP BRASHER, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 357 words


WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration wants to reverse part of the 1996 welfare
overhaul and restore food stamps for 363,000 legal immigrants, an idea that
probably will be well received by Hispanic voters this election year.

Immigrants who have lived in the country for at least five years would be
eligible for the benefits under the proposal that will be part of President
Bush's 2003 budget. Under current rules, adult immigrants must have worked in
the country for at least 10 years, no matter how long they had lived in the
United States, or be a refugee or member of the military to qualify for
benefits.

The full 363,000 would be enrolled by 2006.

A senior administration official, who described the proposal Wednesday on the
condition of anonymity, said the White House wants the rule change included in
an overhaul of farm and nutrition policy now pending in Congress.

"I'm not shocked, because President Bush has in the past recognized that this
was a community that he needs to be accountable to ... and that this is a
constituency he would like to appeal to," said Tanya Broder, an attorney with
the National Immigration Law Center. The Los Angeles-based advocacy group wants
benefits restored to all immigrants.

Many farm workers, whose jobs are seasonal, could benefit from the rule change,
she said.

The White House proposal sets up a potential battle with Senate Democratic
leaders, who have proposed restoring benefits to 150,000 immigrants through
changes in the work requirement and other rules. Democrats have resisted more
generous changes that would cut the amount of money available for farm
subsidies.

About 800,000 immigrants were removed from the food-stamp rolls in 1996,
according to the Agriculture Department, which runs the program. Two years
later, benefits were restored to about 175,000 immigrants, mostly children and
older people who were in the country before enactment of the welfare law.

The administration's proposal would cost $2.1 billion over 10 years. The White
House has not said how it would pay for it. The food-stamp program costs about
$17 billion annually.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 9, 2002 Saturday

MINNESOTA: Deportations are questioned

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 850 words


The deportation of 10 Somalis with criminal convictions from Minnesota last
month has some refugee advocates questioning whether immigration officials
violated federal law by sending them to a country without a functioning central
government.

The lawyers cite a decision from U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan in
Minneapolis, who recommended barring the deportation of Keyse G. Jama, a Somali
native convicted of assault in Hennepin County, "until the government of the
country to which he is to be removed has agreed to accept him."

The decision came Feb. 1. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
deported the 10 Somalis from Minnesota, and 20 others from across the United
States and Canada, less than two weeks later.

One of those deported is married to Sara O'Keefe of Cannon Falls, Minn., a
nursing student caring for their 22-month-old daughter.

She and her husband, 21-year-old Habib Ibrahim, knew deportation was a risk
because of his 1998 burglary conviction in Steele County, but they figured it
unlikely to happen until order had been restored in Somalia. Ibrahim was born
there but fled the war-torn country when he was 11, has no friends or family
there and barely speaks the language.

"We had never had an actual discussion about it because it was too hard of a
topic," O'Keefe said of the prospects for her husband's deportation. "Obviously,
I can't choose to go live where it's violence and poverty."

While the magistrate's recommendation is not binding, deporting the Somalis on
the heels of the decision shows disrespect for a legal interpretation, said one
of Jama's lawyers, Jeffrey Keyes of Minneapolis.

Other Somalis facing removal could cite the case in asking a federal court for
an injunction to stop immigration officials from deporting them, too, Keyes
said. Somalis living in this country are refugees from the country's decade-long
civil war and fear returning to a homeland reduced nearly to anarchy, with
warring clans and no civil institutions.

The government "has not cited a single case in which a federal court has
sanctioned the removal of a legally admitted alien to a country that has not
agreed to accept him," Boylan wrote, underlining his words for emphasis.

Now weighing the Jama case is U.S. District Judge John Tunheim. If he adopts
Boylan's recommendation and issues an order barring Jama's deportation, Keyes
said it would set a strong precedent that would be difficult for INS officials
and the U.S. attorney's office to ignore.

"I would suspect the INS in getting this decision from Magistrate Boylan on Feb.
1 saw it had a window of opportunity before Judge Tunheim accepted the report,"
Keyes said. "The timing is such that it would suggest they're trying to engage
in what this (magistrate) found to be illegal activity before the judge accepted
it."

U.S. Attorney Tom Heffelfinger, whose Minneapolis office filed objections to the
magistrate's recommendation with Tunheim, said even if Jama's deportation is
blocked, the order would apply only to his case. Last month's deportations are a
separate matter.

"We believe that the actions in this particular deportation were unrelated to
Magistrate Boylan's decision and are supported by the law and the facts,"
Heffelfinger said.

Curtis Aljets, director of the INS district office that covers Minnesota and the
Dakotas, said he had not heard of the ruling in the Jama case. "I don't know of
anything that would prohibit us from moving people to Somalia," Aljets said.
"What we did was completely legal and authorized."

Bill Strassberger, an INS spokesman in Washington, scoffed at the suggestion
that the INS had removed the 10 Somalis to beat a possible legal setback.

"I would say the only person that could make that sort of suggestion is someone
who doesn't understand the logistics of moving a group of people like that,"
Strassberger said. "It's not something you can throw together in a matter of
weeks. If it was that easy we could do it more often."

Heffelfinger and Strassberger both said the INS carried out the February
deportations because of an agreement with Somalia's 2-year-old transitional
national government.

Keyes said he has not seen the agreement and questioned the validity of an
accord with the transitional government, which the United States does not
recognize and which controls only part of the country's capital of Mogadishu.

Further, Keyes said, citing an agreement with the transitional government is a
different stance from the argument the government made in seeking to deport
Jama.

In effect, the government argued that because it had succeeded in deporting a
certain number of Somalis to their homeland that must mean that the country had
accepted them.

"Their position was they didn't have to get acceptance, and that as long as they
could get these people into Somalia, that's all they had to do," Keyes said.
"Judge Boylan dismissed that argument. The fact that they can physically
accomplish it doesn't mean it's not illegal."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 20, 2002 Wednesday

U.S. immigration policies: From the absurd to the ridiculous

BYLINE: DIANA HULL Commentator

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 942 words


Good news for two of the deceased 9-11 terrorists: Their student visas have been
approved. Reaching what we can only assume is an entirely new level of idiocy
and incompetence, the Immigration and Naturalization Service notified a flight
school in Venice, Fla., last week that Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi were
approved for student visas.

Ironically, the notification came on the six-month anniversary of the day that
Atta and al-Shehhi hijacked U.S. planes and forced them to fly into the World
Trade Center.

In what has to be the understatement of all time, an INS spokesman called this
fiasco "certainly embarrassing" and added that this only shows "that the current
system for collecting information and tracking foreign students is antiquated,
outdated and inaccurate." What do you do to the administrators of a vitally
important agency who aren't paying attention to what they are doing or its
consequences? We're waiting for the answer to that question.

Who then is looking after the security of U.S. citizens and why did the
otherwise sensible Sen. Dianne Feinstein permit herself to be shouted down by
the education establishment when she suggested a more sophisticated foreign
student tracking system after 9-11? But instead of remaining firm, special
interests triumphed again because foreign students bring in a lot of tuition
money.

And if all that isn't bad enough, while the news of the belated terrorist visas
was being released, Congress was busy voting to adopt the infamous "Section
245i," a bill that dismisses U.S. immigration laws entirely and lets illegal
aliens unchecked, untracked and unscreened achieve permanent legal residency by
finding a "spouse" and paying our government $1,000.

Why the urgency to make it easier for illegal immigrants to gain residency?
President Bush plans to visit Mexican President Vicente Fox, and instead of
bringing a bottle of wine like any considerate guest, he wants to show up with a
mini-amnesty in hand. Every amnesty costs the American people billions of
dollars.

Someone at the New York Times must have a sense of humor: Last Wednesday's front
page featured a headline about the "Bush Amnesty" right next to the story about
the hijacker visas. Bush's response? Besides "not being able to get (his) coffee
down" when he found out about the visas, he told reporters at a news conference
the same day that it's "way past time" to reform the INS. How? He didn't say.
Maybe the agency needs to invent more efficient procedures for those who pay
bribes to be "legal."

Section 245i is another sell-out of U.S. sovereignty to Mexico's need for $12
billion a year in remittances. And, unfortunately, the rest of the world knows
how easy it is to get into the United States and remain here. Anyone ready to
make a run for our borders, or paddle onto our shores, now has new hope all they
have to do is physically get here, spend a little cash and millions are home
free. What if the rest of our legal system worked this way? This is not how a
civilized society operates, and it doesn't take a genius to see that this kind
of permissiveness only encourages more of the same behavior.

The good news, however, is the tiny margin by which 245i passed. One vote.
That's all. If one more Congress member had been made aware of how dangerous
this bill is on so many levels national security and national integrity to name
two we could have saved ourselves from this frankly embarrassing legislative
blunder and 245i would now be just another averted disaster.

Luckily, there's some good news. While 245i may have made it through the House,
it hasn't made it through the Senate, where it could get held up by some of its
more outspoken opponents. Notably, the congressional votes themselves seem to
show us just how heated this issue is becoming. For instance, Republicans voted
123-92 against Bush and against party lines. Even a few tried and true Democrats
couldn't stand behind 245i, and voted against their party leaders.

Fortunately Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., insisted on a "recorded vote"
beforehand, which means that no one got to hide their votes, and the public has
full access to information about who voted "yea" and who "nay" which may have
influenced some of the members' decisions. After all, who wants their
constituents to know that they support something as irresponsible as 245i?

The fact that there were an impressive 137 "nay" votes, as opposed to last
year's 43 nays for the same bill, gives good reason for hope. There are also
trends in Congress indicating a positive shift in representatives' views on
immigration and national security issues. For instance, Tancredo well known for
his tough stance on immigration is gaining popularity among his peers, and there
is even a group of "Tancredo Republicans" who, like many Americans, want to see
tighter borders and more realistic immigration policies.

America endured a number of amnesties under the Clinton administration adding
millions of unscreened illegal immigrants to our population and President Bush
has been pushing for even more, but considering what is happening in Congress
now, the "amnesty heyday" may finally be on its way out. Let's hope so, for all
of our sakes and for the future of this country. If there's a next time, it's
doubtful that any of us will be able to get our coffee down.

Hull (e-mail: dianahull@att.net), a behavioral scientist trained in demography,
is president of Californians for Population Stabilization, a member-based group
that focuses on immigration rates and its effects on the environment.
Distributed by Knight Ridder News Service.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 20, 2002 Wednesday

U.S. immigration policies: From the absurd to the ridiculous

BYLINE: DIANA HULL Commentator

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 942 words


Good news for two of the deceased 9-11 terrorists: Their student visas have been
approved. Reaching what we can only assume is an entirely new level of idiocy
and incompetence, the Immigration and Naturalization Service notified a flight
school in Venice, Fla., last week that Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi were
approved for student visas.

Ironically, the notification came on the six-month anniversary of the day that
Atta and al-Shehhi hijacked U.S. planes and forced them to fly into the World
Trade Center.

In what has to be the understatement of all time, an INS spokesman called this
fiasco "certainly embarrassing" and added that this only shows "that the current
system for collecting information and tracking foreign students is antiquated,
outdated and inaccurate." What do you do to the administrators of a vitally
important agency who aren't paying attention to what they are doing or its
consequences? We're waiting for the answer to that question.

Who then is looking after the security of U.S. citizens and why did the
otherwise sensible Sen. Dianne Feinstein permit herself to be shouted down by
the education establishment when she suggested a more sophisticated foreign
student tracking system after 9-11? But instead of remaining firm, special
interests triumphed again because foreign students bring in a lot of tuition
money.

And if all that isn't bad enough, while the news of the belated terrorist visas
was being released, Congress was busy voting to adopt the infamous "Section
245i," a bill that dismisses U.S. immigration laws entirely and lets illegal
aliens unchecked, untracked and unscreened achieve permanent legal residency by
finding a "spouse" and paying our government $1,000.

Why the urgency to make it easier for illegal immigrants to gain residency?
President Bush plans to visit Mexican President Vicente Fox, and instead of
bringing a bottle of wine like any considerate guest, he wants to show up with a
mini-amnesty in hand. Every amnesty costs the American people billions of
dollars.

Someone at the New York Times must have a sense of humor: Last Wednesday's front
page featured a headline about the "Bush Amnesty" right next to the story about
the hijacker visas. Bush's response? Besides "not being able to get (his) coffee
down" when he found out about the visas, he told reporters at a news conference
the same day that it's "way past time" to reform the INS. How? He didn't say.
Maybe the agency needs to invent more efficient procedures for those who pay
bribes to be "legal."

Section 245i is another sell-out of U.S. sovereignty to Mexico's need for $12
billion a year in remittances. And, unfortunately, the rest of the world knows
how easy it is to get into the United States and remain here. Anyone ready to
make a run for our borders, or paddle onto our shores, now has new hope all they
have to do is physically get here, spend a little cash and millions are home
free. What if the rest of our legal system worked this way? This is not how a
civilized society operates, and it doesn't take a genius to see that this kind
of permissiveness only encourages more of the same behavior.

The good news, however, is the tiny margin by which 245i passed. One vote.
That's all. If one more Congress member had been made aware of how dangerous
this bill is on so many levels national security and national integrity to name
two we could have saved ourselves from this frankly embarrassing legislative
blunder and 245i would now be just another averted disaster.

Luckily, there's some good news. While 245i may have made it through the House,
it hasn't made it through the Senate, where it could get held up by some of its
more outspoken opponents. Notably, the congressional votes themselves seem to
show us just how heated this issue is becoming. For instance, Republicans voted
123-92 against Bush and against party lines. Even a few tried and true Democrats
couldn't stand behind 245i, and voted against their party leaders.

Fortunately Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., insisted on a "recorded vote"
beforehand, which means that no one got to hide their votes, and the public has
full access to information about who voted "yea" and who "nay" which may have
influenced some of the members' decisions. After all, who wants their
constituents to know that they support something as irresponsible as 245i?

The fact that there were an impressive 137 "nay" votes, as opposed to last
year's 43 nays for the same bill, gives good reason for hope. There are also
trends in Congress indicating a positive shift in representatives' views on
immigration and national security issues. For instance, Tancredo well known for
his tough stance on immigration is gaining popularity among his peers, and there
is even a group of "Tancredo Republicans" who, like many Americans, want to see
tighter borders and more realistic immigration policies.

America endured a number of amnesties under the Clinton administration adding
millions of unscreened illegal immigrants to our population and President Bush
has been pushing for even more, but considering what is happening in Congress
now, the "amnesty heyday" may finally be on its way out. Let's hope so, for all
of our sakes and for the future of this country. If there's a next time, it's
doubtful that any of us will be able to get our coffee down.

Hull (e-mail: dianahull@att.net), a behavioral scientist trained in demography,
is president of Californians for Population Stabilization, a member-based group
that focuses on immigration rates and its effects on the environment.
Distributed by Knight Ridder News Service.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            MARCH 21, 2002 Thursday

Planned deportation of Peruvian disputed

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 175 words


A Peruvian woman was arrested outside a Minneapolis church Tuesday, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said it planned to deport her.

Milagros Jimenez entered the United States illegally in 1995 and missed a court
hearing regarding her immigration status two years later, said Tim Counts, a
spokesman for the local INS office.

After she missed the hearing, a judge ordered her deported, but the INS did not
know her whereabouts until recently, Counts said.

Protesters gathered Wednesday at the INS regional office in Bloomington, saying
Jimenez has not had a fair hearing.

Some protesters also complained that the INS targeted Jimenez because of her
work with an immigrant-support group. She attended a meeting of the group at the
church just before her arrest Tuesday night.

Counts denied she was targeted for her work with the group, saying the INS was
not aware of it when she was arrested. She will not be deported for several days
or even weeks and may file a motion to reopen her case, he said.

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            MARCH 21, 2002 Thursday

Planned deportation of Peruvian disputed

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 175 words


A Peruvian woman was arrested outside a Minneapolis church Tuesday, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said it planned to deport her.

Milagros Jimenez entered the United States illegally in 1995 and missed a court
hearing regarding her immigration status two years later, said Tim Counts, a
spokesman for the local INS office.

After she missed the hearing, a judge ordered her deported, but the INS did not
know her whereabouts until recently, Counts said.

Protesters gathered Wednesday at the INS regional office in Bloomington, saying
Jimenez has not had a fair hearing.

Some protesters also complained that the INS targeted Jimenez because of her
work with an immigrant-support group. She attended a meeting of the group at the
church just before her arrest Tuesday night.

Counts denied she was targeted for her work with the group, saying the INS was
not aware of it when she was arrested. She will not be deported for several days
or even weeks and may file a motion to reopen her case, he said.

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday

Planned deportation of Peruvian disputed

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 176 words


A Peruvian woman was arrested outside a Minneapolis church Tuesday, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said it planned to deport her.

Milagros Jimenez entered the United States illegally in 1995 and missed a court
hearing regarding her immigration status two years later, said Tim Counts, a
spokesman for the local INS office.

After she missed the hearing, a judge ordered her deported, but the INS did not
know her whereabouts until recently, Counts said.

Protesters gathered Wednesday at the INS regional office in Bloomington, saying
Jimenez has not had a fair hearing.

Some protesters also complained that the INS targeted Jimenez because of her
work with an immigrant-support group. She attended a meeting of the group at the
church just before her arrest Tuesday night.

Counts denied she was targeted for her work with the group, saying the INS was
not aware of it when she was arrested. She will not be deported for several days
or even weeks and may file a motion to reopen her case, he said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday

Planned deportation of Peruvian disputed

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 176 words


A Peruvian woman was arrested outside a Minneapolis church Tuesday, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said it planned to deport her.

Milagros Jimenez entered the United States illegally in 1995 and missed a court
hearing regarding her immigration status two years later, said Tim Counts, a
spokesman for the local INS office.

After she missed the hearing, a judge ordered her deported, but the INS did not
know her whereabouts until recently, Counts said.

Protesters gathered Wednesday at the INS regional office in Bloomington, saying
Jimenez has not had a fair hearing.

Some protesters also complained that the INS targeted Jimenez because of her
work with an immigrant-support group. She attended a meeting of the group at the
church just before her arrest Tuesday night.

Counts denied she was targeted for her work with the group, saying the INS was
not aware of it when she was arrested. She will not be deported for several days
or even weeks and may file a motion to reopen her case, he said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 27, 2002 Wednesday

TWIN CITIES: Friends rally for jailed immigrant advocate

BYLINE: BILL GARDNER Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 488 words

"If we are deporting people, it shouldn't be the best," said Sister Agnes Foley
as she and several hundred people gathered Tuesday night at a St. Paul rally for
Milagros Jimenez Ruiz, a Peruvian immigrant jailed and facing deportation as an
illegal alien.

About a dozen members of the clergy, including Roman Catholic Archbishop Harry
Flynn, attended the rally at the Lutheran Church of the Redeemer and pledged
their support for Jimenez Ruiz, 38, who has been a leader of immigrant workers
in Minnesota.

Jimenez Ruiz was arrested March 19 by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service as she left a planning meeting at her Minneapolis office for last
Saturday's Immigrant ID Day, which attracted thousands of Mexican immigrants
eager to obtain official identification documents issued by the Mexican
Consulate.

Supporters of Jimenez Ruiz say the timing of the arrest struck fear in the
immigrant community.

"She was taken away by two men who flashed a badge at her, put her in a car and
took her away," Elizabeth Badillo Moorman, who works with immigrants, told the
rally.

"We are here tonight to show we will not be silenced," Moorman said.

An immigration judge ordered Jimenez Ruiz deported after she failed to appear
for an immigration hearing in 1997 in California; the INS said she entered the
United States illegally in 1995 and learned of her whereabouts only recently.

But those at the rally pointed to Jimenez Ruiz's important social work in
Minnesota as a leader of work on behalf of immigrants and at the Sagrado Corazon
de Jesus Catholic Church in Minneapolis.

"She is truly a church builder," Flynn told the rally. "We pray tonight for the
Latino community, a community facing racism, exclusion and fear," Flynn said.

Jimenez Ruiz is a single mother with a 14-year-old son living with her. Her
75-year-old mother also is visiting from Peru.

"Milagros does not belong behind bars," Deacon Carl Valdez of the Assumption
Catholic Church in Richfield told the cheering rally. "She belongs at home with
her family and in the community."

Foley, a sister with the Sisters of St. Joseph of Carondelet, said she had
visited Jimenez Ruiz at the Sherburne County Jail in Elk River on Saturday.

"I think she's nervous," Foley said. "I think she's frightened. I think she's
embarrassed."

Foley said Jimenez Ruiz is a natural leader who is looked up to by immigrants
from many countries.

"She is very charismatic," Foley said. "She comes into a room and she's full of
enthusiasm. She just lights them up."

"She's a valiant woman," said Jeanne Steinhagen, who teaches English to Jimenez
Ruiz. "All of our students see Milagros as a leader."

Those at the rally were urged to sign letters of support for Jimenez Ruiz and
appear at 11:30 a.m. Friday when the letters are presented to the INS office in
Bloomington. A collection was also taken to raise money for Jimenez Ruiz's legal
expenses.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 4, 2002 Thursday

MINNEAPOLIS: Judge bars Somali man's deportation

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 672 words


A federal judge in Minneapolis has ordered immigration officials not to deport a
Somali refugee convicted of assault, ruling that sending Somalis back to a
country with no functioning government is illegal.

While the ruling from U.S. District Judge John Tunheim bars the deportation of
Keyse G. Jama, a Somali native convicted of assault in Hennepin County,
immigrant advocates in the Twin Cities hoped the order also would keep the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service from deporting other Somalis facing
removal to their civil war-torn homeland.

"It's clear that the implication is that if it's not legal in this case, it
should not be legal in any case," said Michele Garnett McKenzie, acting director
of refugee and immigrant programs for Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights. "We
hope this will encourage the INS to stop this illegal practice and put on hold
any plans for removals they may have."

U.S. Attorney Thomas Heffelfinger, in a statement released by his office, said
he was disappointed in the ruling and said his staff was consulting Justice
Department officials over whether to appeal it. "Until we complete our analysis
of this case it would be premature as to whether this case would have any impact
on the deportation of Somalis or other deportees," Heffelfinger said.

Tim Counts, spokesman for the INS district that covers Minnesota and the
Dakotas, said the agency has 12 Somalis in custody awaiting deportation for
criminal convictions and violations of immigration law.

Tunheim found that federal law requires the INS to have acceptance from a viable
central government before it can deport Jama to Somalia, which has only a
transitional national government that controls part of the capital of Mogadishu
and does not have recognition from the United States. The government conceded
that it did not have such acceptance, but argued that it was not mandatory.

"It is difficult for the court to see how the INS' apparent current practice of
dropping off an alien in a territory with no functioning government complies
with the statute," Tunheim wrote. "In essence, 'acceptance' occurs under this
policy when no one returns the deported alien. The silence of a nonfunctioning
government in a lawless territory -- with grave risks to the deported alien --
simply cannot constitute 'acceptance' under (the law)."

The ruling comes less than two months after the deportation of 10 Somalis from
Minnesota and 20 more from Canada and the rest of the United States. The wave of
removals stirred fears among Somalis in the Twin Cities, believed to have the
country's largest concentration of refugees who fled from their homeland's 1991
civil war and clan fighting that has raged since in much of Somalia.

Heffelfinger and INS officials sought to reassure Somalis, saying that
law-abiding immigrants had nothing to fear. All of those who were deported had
felony convictions for offenses that included drug dealing, sexual assault and
armed robbery. None were citizens and each had long faced a deportation order.

Jama's case is separate from those of the 30 deported Somalis. But refugee
advocates cited an earlier ruling in his case in questioning whether immigration
officials had violated federal law by sending the deported Somalis to a country
without a viable central government.

In a Feb. 1 report on the case, U.S. Magistrate Arthur Boylan recommended
barring Jama's removal "until the government of the country to which he is to be
removed has agreed to accept him." Jeffrey Keyes, one of Jama's lawyers, said
the ruling also would benefit a Somali refugee involved in a companion case,
Haji Abukar. Keyes said he would seek to have both released from detention under
a Supreme Court decision that last year said the INS cannot keep a deportee in
custody for more than six months without a foreseeable chance of deportation.
Both still would face deportation when the INS could remove them legally.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 4, 2002 Thursday

MINNEAPOLIS: Judge bars deportation of Somali man

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 671 words


A federal judge in Minneapolis has ordered immigration officials not to deport a
Somali refugee convicted of assault, ruling that sending Somalis back to a
country with no functioning government is illegal.

While the ruling from U.S. District Judge John Tunheim bars the deportation of
Keyse G. Jama, a Somali native convicted of assault in Hennepin County,
immigrant advocates in the Twin Cities hoped the order also would keep the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service from deporting other Somalis facing
removal to their civil war-torn homeland.

"It's clear that the implication is that if it's not legal in this case, it
should not be legal in any case," said Michele Garnett McKenzie, acting director
of refugee and immigrant programs for Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights. "We
hope this will encourage the INS to stop this illegal practice and put on hold
any plans for removals they may have."

U.S. Attorney Thomas Heffelfinger, in a statement released by his office, said
he was disappointed in the ruling and said his staff was consulting Justice
Department officials over whether to appeal it. "Until we complete our analysis
of this case it would be premature as to whether this case would have any impact
on the deportation of Somalis or other deportees," Heffelfinger said.

Tim Counts, spokesman for the INS district that covers Minnesota and the
Dakotas, said the agency has 12 Somalis in custody awaiting deportation for
criminal convictions and violations of immigration law.

Tunheim found that federal law requires the INS to have acceptance from a viable
central government before it can deport Jama to Somalia, which has only a
transitional national government that controls part of the capital of Mogadishu
and does not have recognition from the United States. The government conceded it
did not have such acceptance, but argued that it was not mandatory.

"It is difficult for the court to see how the INS' apparent current practice of
dropping off an alien in a territory with no functioning government complies
with the statute," Tunheim wrote. "In essence, 'acceptance' occurs under this
policy when no one returns the deported alien. The silence of a nonfunctioning
government in a lawless territory -- with grave risks to the deported alien --
simply cannot constitute 'acceptance' under (the law)."

The ruling comes less than two months after the deportation of 10 Somalis from
Minnesota and 20 more from Canada and the rest of the United States. The wave of
removals stirred fears among Somalis in the Twin Cities, believed to have the
country's largest concentration of refugees who fled from their homeland's 1991
civil war and clan fighting that has raged since in much of Somalia.

Heffelfinger and INS officials sought to reassure Somalis, saying that
law-abiding immigrants had nothing to fear. All of those who were deported had
felony convictions for offenses that included drug dealing, sexual assault and
armed robbery. None were citizens and each had long faced a deportation order.

Jama's case is separate from those of the 30 deported Somalis. But refugee
advocates cited an earlier ruling in his case in questioning whether immigration
officials had violated federal law by sending the deported Somalis to a country
without a viable central government.

In a Feb. 1 report on the case, U.S. Magistrate Arthur Boylan recommended
barring Jama's removal "until the government of the country to which he is to be
removed has agreed to accept him." Jeffrey Keyes, one of Jama's lawyers, said
the ruling also would benefit a Somali refugee involved in a companion case,
Haji Abukar. Keyes said he would seek to have both released from detention under
a Supreme Court decision that last year said the INS cannot keep a deportee in
custody for more than six months without a foreseeable chance of deportation.
Both still would face deportation when the INS could remove them legally.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 17, 2002 Friday

Deportation ordered for man after drug offense

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 373 words


CHICAGO -- A federal immigration judge on Thursday ordered a man raised in
Wisconsin after his family fled Afghanistan deported back to that country
because of a marijuana conviction.

Mirwais Ali, 22, had asked the court to let him stay in the United States,
saying deportation would violate a United Nations resolution against sending
people back to countries where they might be tortured.

He also argued that because he left Afghanistan when he was 3 and has never
visited it or learned its language or customs, he might face persecution if he
returned at this late date.

Federal Immigration Judge James Fujimoto said the argument was not persuasive
and turned him down. He denied a withhold-removal request that would have
allowed Ali to stay despite the deportation order.

Ali has been arrested several times in Madison, Wis., mostly for misdemeanors
such as retail theft. In October 1998 police saw him selling drugs on a street
corner and arrested him with 12 grams of marijuana in his pockets. He pleaded
guilty and received probation.

Prosecutors said Ali was arrested for misdemeanor marijuana possession in 1999.
He was placed in a halfway house but allegedly broke house rules and was
sentenced to 27 months in a Wisconsin prison. Now he is being held by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Attorney Taher Kameli said Thursday's decision does not mean that Ali must leave
the country immediately and there is still hope he can remain in the United
States.

He said Ali has until June 16 to file an appeal with the Board of Immigration
Appeals in Washington and that would probably result in a stay of the
deportation.

Kameli said he will attempt to get the drug conviction vacated, or expunged, in
a Wisconsin court. If that effort succeeded, it would allow Ali to ask Fujimoto
to reconsider his deportation order.

"Our argument is that the conviction has served its purpose," Kameli said. "He
has paid his dues to society, he has served his sentence in the state of
Wisconsin. Right now that conviction does not serve any other purpose, so why
should it be kept on the record to be used against him in a civil matter?"
Kameli added.

Ali is a legal resident alien but never became a citizen.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 17, 2002 Friday

Deportation ordered for man after drug offense

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 373 words


CHICAGO -- A federal immigration judge on Thursday ordered a man raised in
Wisconsin after his family fled Afghanistan deported back to that country
because of a marijuana conviction.

Mirwais Ali, 22, had asked the court to let him stay in the United States,
saying deportation would violate a United Nations resolution against sending
people back to countries where they might be tortured.

He also argued that because he left Afghanistan when he was 3 and has never
visited it or learned its language or customs, he might face persecution if he
returned at this late date.

Federal Immigration Judge James Fujimoto said the argument was not persuasive
and turned him down. He denied a withhold-removal request that would have
allowed Ali to stay despite the deportation order.

Ali has been arrested several times in Madison, Wis., mostly for misdemeanors
such as retail theft. In October 1998 police saw him selling drugs on a street
corner and arrested him with 12 grams of marijuana in his pockets. He pleaded
guilty and received probation.

Prosecutors said Ali was arrested for misdemeanor marijuana possession in 1999.
He was placed in a halfway house but allegedly broke house rules and was
sentenced to 27 months in a Wisconsin prison. Now he is being held by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Attorney Taher Kameli said Thursday's decision does not mean that Ali must leave
the country immediately and there is still hope he can remain in the United
States.

He said Ali has until June 16 to file an appeal with the Board of Immigration
Appeals in Washington and that would probably result in a stay of the
deportation.

Kameli said he will attempt to get the drug conviction vacated, or expunged, in
a Wisconsin court. If that effort succeeded, it would allow Ali to ask Fujimoto
to reconsider his deportation order.

"Our argument is that the conviction has served its purpose," Kameli said. "He
has paid his dues to society, he has served his sentence in the state of
Wisconsin. Right now that conviction does not serve any other purpose, so why
should it be kept on the record to be used against him in a civil matter?"
Kameli added.

Ali is a legal resident alien but never became a citizen.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 29, 2002 Saturday

Court will not open hearings Some immigrants' cases stay secret, at least until
appeal

BYLINE: STEVE FAINARU Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 836 words


WASHINGTON -- The government may continue to hold secret immigration hearings
for people detained in its anti-terror dragnet while an appellate court
determines whether the policy is legal, the Supreme Court said Friday.

In its first decision on a matter related to the Sept. 11 attacks, the high
court blocked an order to open the hearings immediately. That order was issued
by a federal judge last month. The same judge had ruled that the closed hearings
were unconstitutional.

The Justice Department has appealed the decision, arguing that the issue touches
"on the nation's very ability to defend itself against the continuing threat of
hostile attack."

The Justice Department has refused to disclose how many secret hearings are
scheduled or have already been held, but immigrant rights advocates estimate
that they number in the hundreds.

Because the justices merely issued a brief order allowing the sealed hearings to
continue, legal experts said it is impossible to assess the Supreme Court's view
of the case. Many expect the high court to decide the issue ultimately after the
3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rules on the matter.

"This was about keeping the barn door closed while we wait and see whether we
have to decide to open it," said Erik Jaffe, an appellate attorney in
Washington, D.C.

Still, the ruling was a blow to civil liberties advocates who have challenged
the legality of the hearings since the nation's chief immigration judge, Michael
Creppy, acting on behalf of Attorney General John Ashcroft, issued a blanket
security directive 10 days after the Sept. 11 attacks for cases deemed of
"special interest" to the terrorism investigation.

The Justice Department has argued vehemently that open hearings could compromise
the continuing terrorism probe and provide critical information to terrorists.

"This is an extraordinary case, touching on the nation's very ability to defend
itself against the continuing threat of hostile attack from myriad and unknown
sources," Solicitor General Theodore Olson argued in a court filing on behalf of
Ashcroft.

"The vital interests at stake here demand that the government not lose its
ability to protect the national security (by even temporarily opening the
hearings to the public)."

Olson argued that the hearings could reveal sensitive evidence about the
detainees' links to terrorism and information about what government
investigators have learned, which could benefit terrorists. Immigrants caught up
in the investigation enjoyed no general First Amendment right of public access
to their immigration proceedings, he said.

Last month's ruling by U.S. District Judge John Bissell in Newark, N.J., that
the sealed hearings violate the First Amendment was not the only judicial
decision on the matter. Another federal judge in Detroit ruled in April that it
was illegal for the government to hold secret immigration hearings for a
Lebanese activist who had been detained in the investigation.

"We're disappointed, but we remain optimistic," said Lee Gelernt, a senior staff
attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents the plaintiffs
in both lawsuits. "The only two federal courts that have looked at the merits
have both concluded that the policy is unconstitutional."

The ACLU contends that the policy of secrecy is a departure from U.S. legal
tradition.

"That an individual in this country could be deprived of his or her liberty in a
secret, closed-door proceeding is an extraordinary proposition, one that finds
no support in this court's case law or in history," the group said.

The ACLU said even the trials of individuals charged with terrorism, such as
alleged Sept. 11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui and alleged shoe-bomber Richard
Reid, are being held in open federal court.

A Justice Department spokeswoman said U.S. officials would not comment on
Friday's Supreme Court decision.

Friday's order by the high court was a one-sentence statement. It said that
Justice David Souter, to whom the government's application was directed, had
referred the matter to the entire court, and that the court had granted a stay
of the district court order opening the hearings pending the outcome of the
government's appeal.

At issue is a linchpin of the government's policy of conducting the terrorism
investigation in secret, as well the fate of dozens and perhaps hundreds of
detainees, most of Arab and South Asian descent, who have been swept up in the
probe.

According to the most recent government figures, 74 foreign nationals are still
being held on immigration charges related to the Sept. 11 attacks. At least 700
people have been detained on immigration charges since Sept. 11, and many have
been deported.

In recent weeks, immigration attorneys say, the government has acted
inconsistently in deciding whether to close individual hearings -- postponing
some while holding at least one open hearing in California.

The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 22, 2002 Monday CITY EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE RULES SPUR SUIT;
ACLU, OTHERS: IMMIGRANT POLICY IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL

BYLINE: SHERYL JEAN, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 572 words


The American Civil Liberties Union in Minnesota, several advocacy groups and
state residents plan to sue the state today over new regulations that give
immigrants special driver's licenses that expire when their legal stay in the
United States does.

"It changes a driver's license to a state identification badge or internal
passport," said Chuck Samuelson, executive director of the Minnesota Civil
Liberties Union. "It's a real un-American thing to do."

As of July 8, temporary immigrants will receive driver's licenses bearing an
expiration date when the person's visa expires and the words "status check" on
both sides. Law enforcement officials can report someone with an expired status
check date to the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The Minnesota ACLU and others will argue in the petition to the state Court of
Appeals that the new rules are unconstitutional because they single out
noncitizens for different treatment in violation of the 14th Amendment's equal
protection clause. The ACLU claims that a person's immigration status shouldn't
have any bearing on whether he or she is qualified to drive or is committing
identity fraud.

Opponents' views have created friction with proponents who say the
anti-terrorism action will help keep the country safe.

"In my view, this is political grandstanding at its worst," said Public Safety
Commissioner Charlie Weaver, who received a judge's permission to change the
driver's license rules after the state Legislature rejected similar
restrictions. "Apparently, these groups believe that those who are here
illegally have a right to a driver's license. There's no constitutional right to
a driver's license."

He added that "there has never been a successful court challenge" to similar
restrictions in other states. At least seven states have linked driver's
licenses to the expiration date of visas in some way, according to the American
Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators.

The Minnesota Driver and Vehicle Services estimates that the new rules affect
40,000 to 80,000 annual applicants, including U.S. citizens with out-of-state
licenses who want a Minnesota license. They now have to bring proof of U.S.
citizenship. As of January, about 3.6 million people had Minnesota driver's
licenses.

The Minnesota ACLU also says that Weaver's new rules exceed the powers granted
under the driver's license statute and are pre-empted by federal immigration
law. The group also alleges that Weaver doesn't have the authority to
circumnavigate the legislation and appeal to an administrative law judge "in
secret and in haste," Samuelson said.

Weaver disagrees. "If that were true I wouldn't be able to take driver's
licenses away from drunk drivers or people who don't pay child support," he
said. "It's clear in the rules that I can revoke or cancel the license of
someone who fails to meet the criteria for getting a license, and one of the
criteria is you have to be here legally."

In its appeal, the ACLU is joined by Jewish Community Action, the Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, the Minnesota Chapter of the National Lawyer's
Guild, the Somali Community of Minnesota, and dozens of individual citizens and
noncitizens in Minnesota who were either denied a chance to participate in the
usual rule-making process or who will be affected by the new rules.

Sheryl Jean can be reached at sjean@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5576.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 22, 2002 Thursday

U.S. shreds documents that could fight terrorism

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 183 words


WASHINGTON -- Despite a post-Sept. 11 emphasis on sharing information, the
government each year deliberately shreds millions of unsuccessful immigration
applications containing personal details and photographs that some officials say
could help in the war against terrorism.

Many applicants are from countries the U.S. government considers sponsors or
harborers of terrorists, officials said.

Senior counterterrorism and law enforcement officials say they were unaware of
the State Department's practice and believe the information should be preserved
for potential use in terrorism investigations.

Immigration lawyers, however, are worried about the privacy implications.

State Department officials say the records of immigrants who fail to win entry
to the United States after applying through a special visa lottery system are
destroyed.

About 50,000 applicants are randomly awarded visas each year. Each application
includes the person's name, photograph, current address and place of birth, as
well as the same information and photographs for all immediate family members.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       APRIL 1, 2003 Tuesday CITY EDITION

TWIN CITIES SOMALI ACTIVIST ARRESTED
OUTSPOKEN JAMAL COULD FACE DEPORTATION IN IMMIGRATION CASE

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 952 words


Omar Jamal, a sharp critic of federal efforts to deport fellow Somali refugees,
could face deportation himself after his arrest Monday in St. Paul on federal
charges of making false statements in immigration documents.

Jamal, 30, has made himself perhaps the most visible and most controversial
member of one of the largest Somali populations in the country, emerging after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to call attention to his complaints
through countless news conferences, press releases and even a "National Tour
Against Hate."

His confrontational style -- displayed as recently as Thursday, when he closed a
community forum by leveling unusually pointed criticism at Tom Heffelfinger, the
U.S. attorney for Minnesota, and other officials -- has prompted some Somalis to
question whether his approach has done more harm than good.

Some also wondered whether Jamal's relentless agitation had led to his arrest
Monday morning outside his St. Paul residence.

An indictment returned a week ago in U.S. District Court in Memphis, Tenn.,
charges Jamal, executive director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center, with
three counts of making false statements in immigration documents and three
counts of making false statements to a federal agency. He allegedly made the
false statements in April 1998 in Tennessee, where he has said he was a student.
The maximum sentence for each count is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

According to the indictment, when Jamal applied for asylum in the United States
he allegedly stated that he had not been granted refugee status and asylum by
another country, a statement he "then and there knew was false," because he had
been granted asylum in another country. The indictment does not identify the
country.

Jamal began speaking out about a month after the Sept. 11 attacks, criticizing
the government for shutting down Somali-run money-transfer agencies on the
suspicion they were helping to finance terrorism. Most of the agencies have
since been absolved. In March 2002, he referred to Minneapolis as a
"slaughterhouse for immigrants," in reaction to the police shooting of a Somali
man who was wielding a machete.

In recent months, the focus of Jamal's ire has been the government's push to
carry out deportation orders against Somalis convicted of criminal or
immigration violations. A federal judge in Seattle issued a nationwide ban on
such deportations in January. That same month, Jamal embarked on a national
tour, visiting Somalis in Seattle and Lewiston, Maine, calling for the mayor's
resignation in the latter city.

For all his criticism of officials at his frequent news conferences, Jamal --
invariably wearing a bow tie with suit or sports coat -- has interacted
cordially with Heffelfinger and police and immigration officials at a number of
public forums. Thursday's gathering appeared to be a departure, with Jamal
turning to face Heffelfinger, Minneapolis Police Chief Robert Olson and St. Paul
Police Chief William Finney as he sounded off at about the war on terrorism and
the war in Iraq.

"He talks too much," said Hassan Eibakar, publisher of a monthly Somali
newspaper and a member of Jamal's St. Paul-based center. "I'm sorry, but there
are many people who think that way. America is fighting an enemy, and he talks
too much against the federal institutions. It's just to make him shut up. He
should just be grateful to the Americans and shut up."

Tim Counts, spokesman for the local office of the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
Jamal's outspokenness did not make him a target for arrest.

"This has nothing to do with his role as a public figure or his criticism of the
government," Counts said. "This has only to do with the fraud charges."

Jamal appeared briefly in federal court in Minneapolis, then was released on a
signature bond and turned over to the immigration bureau, Counts said.

Agents took Jamal to the bureau's offices in Bloomington, where he now faces
administrative charges alleging immigration violations similar to those
contained in the indictment. Such administrative charges can lead to deportation
orders.

Jamal was in custody Monday night under a $10,000 bond. He has an April 23 court
appearance in Memphis on his federal charges, said Leigh Anne Jordon of the U.S.
attorney's office in Memphis.

Osman Sahardeed, assistant executive director of the Somali Community of
Minnesota, a nonprofit community assistance agency in Minneapolis, said news of
Jamal's arrest surprised him. He expressed concern for Jamal's wife and two
young children.

"He has been one of the active guys in the community," said Sahardeed. "I'm
hoping, I'm praying that everything will go well for him. The mere fact that he
is in jail right now, that itself is a loss to the community and to his family."

Yasmin Ali, of Refugee Family Network, which provides social services to East
African refugees in the Twin Cities, said she agreed with some of the substance
of the comments she heard Jamal make at the forum but questioned his approach.

"I was thinking there has to be a better way to approach the issues," Ali said.
"There is a large Somali community here (numbering 20,000 in Minnesota) and many
people are doing fine. People have problems at times because of cultural
barriers, language barriers and misunderstandings. People don't know about us
and we don't know about them. The only way to solve that, instead of being mad
or being angry or accusing somebody of something, is just to educate each other
as much as we can."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneer press.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

St. Paul resident Omar Jamal was in federal custody Monday night under a $10,000
bond. He has an April 23 court appearance in Memphis, Tenn., on federal
immigration charges.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      APRIL 2, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

JAMAL SAYS HE TRUSTS COURTS TO CLEAR HIM
SOMALI ACTIVIST HELD IN IMMIGRATION CASE

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 683 words


Jailed Somali activist Omar Jamal said Tuesday he trusted the courts to clear
him of charges that he broke immigration laws even as new questions about his
legal status surfaced.

Jamal has been a frequent and outspoken critic of law enforcement treatment of
fellow refugees over the past 18 months. On Monday, federal immigration agents
arrested him outside his St. Paul home on six counts of making false statements
when he applied for asylum five years ago this week in Memphis, Tenn.

Contrary to the suspicions some Somalis and other supporters have expressed
since his arrest, Jamal said he did not believe the charges stemmed from his
high-profile, often confrontational style of activism. He said he intended to
resume his work as executive director of the St. Paul-based Somali Justice
Advocacy Center as soon as possible.

"I deeply trust the system," Jamal said during a telephone interview from the
Washington County jail. "They have some serious concerns of my background, which
they have a right to do. I think the system will eventually exonerate me. ... I
am not being targeted because of what I do. They are just doing their job. I am
doing my job."

Jamal has focused much of his energy recently on decrying federal efforts to
deport Somalis convicted of criminal or immigration violations to their lawless
homeland, which has been without a central government since civil war broke out
in 1991. Such deportations have been on hold across the country since January,
when a federal judge in Seattle issued a nationwide ban on removing Somalis at
least until their country has a functioning central government.

Jamal, 30, declined to discuss his immigration status, saying he was acting on
his lawyer's advice. A federal judge in Minneapolis released Jamal after a brief
hearing on his criminal case Monday. Agents immediately took him to the U.S.
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement offices in Bloomington to face
administrative charges for alleged violations of immigration law.

According to Department of Justice documents outlining those charges,
authorities are seeking to remove Jamal from the United States for violations
that include failing to prove how he entered the country.

Jamal also allegedly failed to possess valid travel or identity documents when
he entered and allegedly sought entry or immigration benefits by fraud, both of
which are circumstances that would have made him inadmissible, authorities say
in a notice ordering Jamal to appear before an immigration judge.

A Somali native who is not a U.S. citizen, Jamal allegedly arrived in Toronto in
November 1989, applied for and received refugee status. He allegedly was granted
Canadian immigrant status in December 1991.

In April 1998, while applying for asylum in Memphis, Jamal allegedly failed to
disclose his Canadian immigrant status, according to the notice. At the same
time, he also allegedly claimed membership in a clan different from the one
identified in paperwork he allegedly submitted to the Canadian Immigration and
Refugee Board.

Authorities also allege Jamal, who has a wife and three children, claimed that
he had been admitted to the United States at New York on a tourist visa.

"You have not submitted to the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service any document establishing your time, place and manner of entry and INS
has no record of your alleged Oct. 20, 1997, admission," the notice alleges.

Richard Breitman, a Bloomington-based immigration lawyer, said Jamal's case
appears to be an exception to standard practice in at least one instance,
Breitman said, saying he had rarely seen authorities pursue criminal charges in
addition to administrative charges in such matters.

"I've just never seen it in 20 years, to criminally prosecute an asylum
applicant," Breitman said. "He's been found to be a person fearing persecution
in a country that is very dangerous, particularly for someone like he is, very
active politically or publicly as an advocate."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Omar Jamal

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 4, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

JAMAL FACING HOST OF DOUBTS
SOMALI ACTIVIST COULD BE RETURNED TO CANADA

BYLINE: TODD NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 598 words


Twin Cities Somali activist Omar Jamal regained his freedom Thursday but learned
he faces deportation to Canada for allegedly committing what a judge called
flagrant immigration fraud.

The outspoken, high-profile advocate also faces deepening questions about his
identity, his background and his standing in the Somali community. A federal
immigration prosecutor said the case against Jamal had begun with tips from
community members angry that the asylum slot he allegedly gained falsely could
have gone to someone awaiting resettlement.

"People were absolutely outraged he would conduct himself in such a way when he
was already a landed immigrant in Canada," said Richard Soli, an attorney
representing the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Immigration Enforcement, referring
to the asylum status Jamal allegedly obtained in Canada in 1991.

Soli also raised questions about the identity of Jamal, referred to in court
documents as both Omar Jamal and Jamal Omar. Jamal's wife, answering a question
from Soli, said she knew him as Jamal Omar. "He's known in his community with a
fabricated identity," Soli told the judge. "He is known in his community with a
fabricated history."

Despite those contentions, Jamal walked free Thursday after posting bail of
$6,500, reduced from an initial amount of $10,000. His court appearance at the
immigration bureau in Bloomington drew about 50 supporters. Jamal's parents, his
brother and a number of prominent leaders of Minnesota's Somali community also
turned out.

"These are accusations," said Osman Sahardeed, assistant executive director of
the Somali Community of Minnesota, a community assistance agency.

"He has faith in the system; we in the Somali community generally do have faith
in the system. They are really supporting him. He has done a lot of good things,
and they are supporting him."

Jamal, 30, had been in custody since Monday morning, when agents arrested him
outside his St. Paul apartment on federal charges of making false statements
when he applied for asylum five years ago in Memphis, Tenn. Officials also
brought administrative charges for alleged violations of immigration law.

The arrest came as a surprising turn for Jamal, whose frequent news conferences
as executive director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center have made him
perhaps the most visible Somali in the state. Jamal, sharply critical of
government efforts to deport Somalis to their war-torn homeland, must return to
court in two weeks for a hearing on whether authorities can deport him to
Canada.

According to Justice Department documents, Jamal allegedly applied for refugee
status after arriving in Toronto in 1989 and allegedly was granted immigrant
status two years later. Jamal then allegedly failed to disclose his Canadian
immigrant status when he applied for asylum in Memphis in 1998.

He also allegedly claimed membership in a clan that was different from the one
identified in paperwork filed in Canada. Jamal claimed he entered the United
States in 1997 in New York but allegedly has not provided documents to
substantiate that claim, according to the documents.

During the hearing, Jamal sat silently as Soli questioned his wife about a
Ramsey County order for protection she had obtained against him last year.
Holding the couple's 2-month-old daughter, the youngest of their three children,
Jamal's wife said she and Jamal had had arguments but denied allegations of
abuse that she made in paperwork applying for the order.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Omar Jamal

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 12, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

TIMING OF JAMAL TIPS SEEN AS KEY
FILES INDICATE SCRUTINY BEFORE OTHER SOMALIS' COMPLAINTS

BYLINE: TODD NELSONPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 883 words


The most striking revelation in the government's case against Omar Jamal, the
outspoken Somali activist facing deportation, may be the claim that it began
with tips from fellow Somalis.

The problem, Jamal's lawyers say, is that government documents appear to
contradict that version of events, as outlined in court by a federal immigration
prosecutor.

Instead, a letter filed with government documents in the case shows that local
immigration officials were investigating Jamal as early as October 2001. The
first of three anonymous tips filed among the documents was dated March 4, 2002.

The reference to an investigation predating the first of the tips against Jamal,
arrested March 31 outside his St. Paul apartment, renews questions about whether
agents targeted Jamal because of his sharp criticism of the government,
including efforts to deport Somalis to their war-torn homeland, his lawyers
said.

"The government's attorney said the reason Mr. Jamal became a focus of their
interest was that people had complained," immigration attorney Richard Breitman
said. "The documents they gave to the immigration judge shows the immigration
service had focused on Mr. Jamal six months before anybody complained."

The letter showing that the investigation started well before the first tip
arrived "certainly makes clear that it was not the information from the Somali
community but it was something else, and the timing raises the implication that
it was his celebrity," said Peter Erlinder, a professor at William Mitchell
College of Law who is consulting in Jamal's defense.

Immigration and other government officials insisted after Jamal's arrest that
the charges he faces have nothing to do with his high profile or his criticism
of the government.

Jamal, executive director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center, was indicted
last month on six counts of making false statements when he applied for
political asylum five years ago in Memphis, Tenn. Immigration agents have filed
administrative charges containing similar allegations of immigration fraud.
Prosecutor Richard Soli said authorities would seek to have Jamal deported to
Canada, where he allegedly was granted asylum in 1991. Jamal spent three days in
jail after his arrest but was released after posting $6,500 in bail, which an
immigration judge had reduced from $10,000.

Soli declined to discuss specifics of the case because it is pending in
immigration court, said Tim Counts, spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. The documents filed last week were those Soli said he
pulled together for Jamal's bail hearing and did not represent the complete case
file, which is in Memphis, or complete details of the investigation, Counts
said. The other tips against Jamal came in April 2002 and September 2002.

The letter filed last week, dated Jan. 7, 2002, asks immigration officials with
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to check fingerprints of Jamal and two other
people against a database in that country. The letter cites an Oct. 31, 2001,
conversation about the case between an immigration agent working in the Twin
Cities and the official to whom the letter was addressed.

"The United States Immigration Service, FBI and United States Attorney's Office
believes a number of individuals seeking immigrant benefits in the United States
may have received immigration benefits in Canada and, therefore, may be subject
to criminal prosecution," the letter states.

Making such an inquiry with Canadian authorities more than three years after
Jamal was granted asylum in the United States seems to differ from the usual
process, Breitman said.

Jamal began publicly questioning government scrutiny of Somalis after the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks. He started appearing in news reports in November 2001,
after federal agents shut down Somali-run money-transfer agencies, which fell
under suspicion of providing financial support to terrorists. Most of the
agencies have since been cleared. Since he emerged as one of the most visible
figures in what is believed to be the country's largest concentration of Somali
refugees, estimated at 20,000 in Minnesota, Jamal has aired his complaints
against the government in frequent news conferences and press releases.

For his part, Jamal said he was "dismayed and shocked" that a few Somalis had
complained about him to immigration officials. He said he instead was focusing
on the support he had received from Somali elders and community leaders.

"Last night, I had almost 30 elders in my apartment," Jamal said. "They were
talking about forming a committee on how they can be helpful to what I do. ... I
think that I'm very well received in the community. Regardless of what's going
on, I'm determined to fight this, to stay here in this country."

On Friday night, many of those elders and more than 100 other Somalis turned out
to show support for Jamal at a meeting in Minneapolis. The elders and other
leaders released a copy of a letter asking federal prosecutors in Minnesota and
Tennessee to drop the charges against Jamal.

"Even if I get deported, it will be with a big smile on my face because I have
your support," Jamal told the crowd.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Omar Jamal

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     April 30, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

HIGH COURT UPHOLDS IMMIGRANT DETENTIONS
DECISION COULD SPEED PACE OF THOUSANDS OF DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: DAVID G. SAVAGE, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 494 words


WASHINGTON -- Legal immigrants who have committed serious crimes can be held
without a hearing and deported, even if they are not dangerous and are unlikely
to flee, the Supreme Court ruled Tuesday.

The 5-4 decision in a California case upholds a 1996 immigration law that seeks
to rid the United States of "criminal aliens." The law requires mandatory
detention and deportation of all immigrants if they have committed a crime that
is punishable by a year in prison.

In Tuesday's ruling, the Supreme Court rejected the claim that these immigrants
have a constitutional right to a hearing before they are jailed.

"This court has firmly and repeatedly endorsed the proposition that Congress may
make rules as to aliens that would be unacceptable if applied to citizens," said
Chief Justice William Rehnquist.

Legal experts said the decision is likely to speed the pace of thousands of
deportations. Rehnquist cited government statistics showing that immigrants with
criminal records are deported on average within 47 days of their arrest.

Immigration rights advocates and the American Bar Association criticized the
Supreme Court's decision, saying it allowed imprisonment without a hearing. But
supporters said the decision affirms the law's goal of deporting criminal
immigrants.

The ruling also gives Attorney General John Ashcroft a stronger legal basis to
hold detainees in the war on terrorism. After the Sept. 11 attacks, the
government arrested and detained at least 1,200 immigrants, but charged only a
handful with crimes.

Normally, the Constitution does not allow the government to detain a person
without full due process of law, including the filing of a charges and a hearing
to contest them. But Rehnquist's opinion stresses that immigrants can be
accorded lesser rights than U.S. citizens.

Unlike the terrorism disputes, the case decided Tuesday focused on immigrants
who have been found guilty of crimes.

Hyung Joon Kim, a 25-year old South Korean native, came to California when he
was 6 and became a legal resident. In 1996, Kim was convicted in Oakland of
burglary. A year later, he was convicted of a petty theft and, because of his
record, sentenced to three years in prison.

After his release, however, immigration officials detained Kim, holding him
without a hearing while he awaited deportation. Kim sued the INS district
commissioner, arguing that he was entitled to a hearing. A federal judge in
Oakland agreed and ordered him released on bail.

That decision was upheld by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

It is unclear exactly what crimes are serious enough to trigger deportation. In
1996, Congress said any "aggravated felony" or recent crime of "moral turpitude"
makes an immigrant subject to deportation.

But in practice, lesser offenses such as shoplifting and possession of stolen
property have been deemed to be aggravated felonies because they resulted in a
jail term of one year or more.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      May 28, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

PANEL SAYS SOMALI IS SUBJECT TO DEPORTATION
MINNESOTAN'S CASE LED TO WIDER RULING

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 605 words


A Minnesota Somali whose case spawned a nationwide ban on returning Somalis to
their chaotic homeland once again faces deportation after a federal court ruling
Tuesday.

In a split decision, a three-judge panel of the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals overturned last year's decision by U.S. District Judge John Tunheim of
Minnesota blocking the deportation of Keyse G. Jama, a Somali native subject to
removal because of an assault conviction in Hennepin County.

Tunheim had ruled that immigration authorities could not deport Jama because
Somalia, which largely plunged into anarchy after civil war erupted in 1991, has
no functioning central government to accept him, which Jama's lawyers argued
U.S. law requires.

The argument that prevailed in the Jama case gained ground last year as district
courts in Louisiana and Washington also barred deportations.

In January, a district court judge in Seattle cited Jama's case in imposing a
nationwide ban on Somali deportations, a ruling credited with helping to
forestall the removal of 2,700 Somalis nationwide awaiting deportation because
of criminal convictions or violations of immigration law. The ban, however, does
not apply to Jama and other Somalis who previously had gone to court to
challenge the legality of the deportation plans.

Tuesday's ruling is the first to conclude that immigration authorities do not
have to get acceptance from another country before deporting someone there. A
spokesman said the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement believes the
appeals court ruling applies only to Jama.

Michele Garnett McKenzie of Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, which has
represented Jama and a number of other Somalis facing deportation, said she
believed the ruling could apply to the cases of fewer than 10 other Minnesota
Somalis in similar situations. The nationwide ban on Somali deportations, which
Justice Department lawyers have appealed to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, is not affected by the ruling by the 8th Circuit panel, she said.

"It wasn't what we were hoping for," McKenzie said. She and other lawyers are
weighing whether to ask the full appeals court to review the matter.

Spokesman Tim Counts said the immigration bureau "is pleased with the 8th
Circuit's decision. The decision reaffirms that we have the legal authority to
remove those from the United States who have been ordered deported by federal
immigration judges."

Tunheim misconstrued immigration law when he concluded that it requires
immigration authorities to gain acceptance from Somalia before returning him,
Circuit Judge Morris Arnold of Little Rock, Ark., wrote in the ruling.

The appeals court, Arnold wrote, believes that "the 'short answer' to Mr. Jama's
assertion (that the INS must obtain prior acceptance before returning him to the
country of his birth) is that 'Congress did not write the statute that way.'
Whether it is politically wise, efficient or considerate of the United States to
remove an alien without the prior acceptance of the alien's destination country
is, quite simply, a question that lies outside our province."

In a sharply worded dissent, Circuit Judge Kermit Bye of Fargo, N.D., wrote that
the decision contradicts nearly a half-century of rulings.

"With this change in policy, we abandon a stateless person without a passport or
traveling documents in a war-torn country victimized by battling warlords, and
without a central government," Bye wrote. "By doing so, I fear that we abandon
order and risk the doom of liberty."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COURTS

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 14, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

RECORDS SHOW SCHWARZENEGGER VIOLATED TERMS OF ORIGINAL VISA

BYLINE: DION NISSENBAUMKnight Ridder News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 559 words


SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger has denounced illegal
immigration in his bid to become California's next governor, but the Austrian
native may have stretched the bounds of U.S. law to secure his own ticket to
America in the 1960s.

As a 21-year-old bodybuilder, Schwarzenegger came to the United States in 1968
on a B-1 visa, which allows visiting athletes to compete and train, but bars
them from drawing a salary from an American company.

But in his 1977 autobiography, Schwarzenegger said he reached a deal with a
legendary figure in the bodybuilding industry "to pay me a weekly salary in
exchange for my information and being able to use photographs of me in his
magazine."

That arrangement, said several immigration attorneys, appears to have violated
the terms of his visa. "It allows you to come in to conduct business, but to be
gainfully employed you need a visa that allows you to be gainfully employed in
the United States," said New York-based immigration attorney Steven Mukamal. "It
would seem that Mr. Schwarzenegger violated his own status."

Schwarzenegger told campaign aides last week that he does not recall earning a
salary during his first year in America, even though he wrote about it in his
autobiography and the arrangement has been reported in numerous accounts.

Aides to the actor defend the candidate's immigration record, saying that the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service would not have extended his B-1 visa
after six months, then given him a temporary working visa if he had done
anything wrong.

"The INS knew full well what he was doing here and had no problem with it," said
Thomas Hiltachk, Schwarzenegger's attorney.

Schwarzenegger declined to be interviewed or release immigration records that
detailed his employment history.

Immigration has emerged as a central issue in the race to replace Democratic
Gov. Gray Davis, who is facing an Oct. 7 recall election.

Although many immigrants break the terms of their visa by working in the United
States, Schwarzenegger has repeatedly stressed that he followed the rules and
insists that other immigrants must do the same.

Under the terms of the visa he had, "a non-immigrant in B-1 status may not
receive a salary from a U.S. source for services rendered in connection with his
or her activities in the United States." The rules allow immigrants to receive
"actual reasonable expenses," such as money for food and hotel rooms.

Even before he arrived in America, Schwarzenegger has said, he struck a deal to
work for bodybuilding magnate Joe Weider while he had a B-1 visa so he could
train in California.

"I worked out an agreement with Joe Weider to spend one year in America,"
Schwarzenegger wrote in his 1977 autobiography. "My part of the agreement was to
make available to Weider information about how I trained. He agreed to provide
an apartment, a car and to pay me a weekly salary in exchange for my information
and being able to use photographs of me in his magazine."

In interviews over the years, Weider has said he paid the young bodybuilder
between $100 and $200 a week to write brochures and columns for his bodybulding
magazines.

In 1969, Schwarzenegger received an H-2 visa, which allowed him to work in this
country. He became a permanent resident in 1974 and a citizen in 1983.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Arnold Schwarzenegger

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 30, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

LIBERIAN DEPORTED AFTER ADMITTING TO CRIMES THERE
MAN, 23, IS FIRST DEPORTED FROM STATE FOR ALLEGED ABUSES

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 451 words


A Liberian citizen has been deported from the Twin Cities after admitting that
he killed 10 people and raped a woman while supervising a traffic checkpoint
where dozens of such crimes took place during the African nation's civil war.

Emmanuel Bill Gaye, 23, arrived in Monrovia, Liberia, early Wednesday, said Tim
Counts, spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. An immigration
officer escorted him and confirmed his arrival.

Gaye is the first person to be deported from Minnesota for alleged human rights
abuses, Counts said. He is the second to be arrested here under the government's
continuing "No Safe Haven" program targeting suspected human rights violators.
Nationwide, immigration officers are investigating more than 200 such cases
involving people from more than 50 countries.

"The United States will not be a refuge for those who have inflicted misery and
death upon others," said Michael Garcia, acting assistant secretary for the
immigration agency.

Gaye's lawyer, identified as Kwao Amegashie, did not immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.

Gaye had spent most of his time in the Twin Cities area after he entered the
United States in February 2001, Counts said. He arrived as a visitor but
overstayed his visa, violating immigration law.

The violation went unnoticed until Gaye went to the immigration office in
Bloomington to apply for an immigration benefit, Counts said.

"It was part of the decision-making process, looking into whether he was
eligible for that immigration benefit, that led to the uncovering of the past
crimes," Counts said. "Once we began to question him about his background and
his history, some evidence of this began to appear."

Gaye testified in federal immigration court that he was a teenager when he
joined the National Patriotic Liberation Front, the guerrilla force of former
Liberian president Charles Taylor, a central figure in Liberia's 14-year civil
war who resigned in August.

After several years, Gaye worked his way up to command roadway checkpoints.

During his oversight of such checkpoints, according to an immigration judge's
finding, 10 to 20 people were killed, 20 to 30 women were raped and thousands
were robbed at gunpoint.

In a separate case, a man arrested in August 2002 for allegedly committing acts
of genocide in Rwanda is still in custody.

Enos Iragaba Kagaba was arrested on fraud charges shortly after he arrived at
the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. Immigration officials launched a
domestic and international investigation and are seeking to deny Kagaba
admission to the United States.

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TWIN CITIES

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  November 25, 2003 Tuesday WISCONSIN EDITION

MAN ORDERED DEPORTED AFTER 20 YEARS IN U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE


An immigration judge ordered Emad Samara deported to Jordan in 1995, after he
had overstayed his student visa by 10 years.

The Palestinian born, Kuwaiti-raised Samara held a Jordanian passport, but had
never been to the Middle Eastern Country after living in the United States since
the early 1980s.

Instead, Samara defied the order and moved to Wisconsin, where he had a child,
got married and worked as a construction worker.

In May 2001 he tried to make things right, approaching immigration officials to
start the process of becoming a citizen.

He and his wife claim in a federal lawsuit filed in September that Samara told
immigration officials in 2001 that he was in violation of the deportation order,
but authorities said they should sit tight and wait for the appropriate forms.

Records show that Samara started that process in May 2001. But he waited and
waited.

Samara was detained Sept. 18 for his deportation order -- just one day before
the necessary paperwork arrived at his home to start the process of gaining
citizenship, more than two years later. He remains in the Ozaukee County Jail.

Samara said he had no reason to believe he was in jeopardy of losing the life he
knew when he went to immigration offices in that day. He had been called and
asked to register for a national database created after the Sept. 11 attacks.

"I thought he was just going to get fingerprinted," said Shandell Samara, 31,
his wife of five years.

A judge dismissed the couple's lawsuit this month, but the decision is on
appeal. Immigration officials declined to discuss Samara's case, citing the
litigation.

Samara has a 5-year-old son with Shandell and a 9-year-old stepson. His wife
said she has had to drop out of school at Alverno College, seek temporary work
and go on public assistance since her husband was detained.

Samara said he feels betrayed, since he could have taken other bureaucratic
routes to remain here had he known the process would be delayed and he would be
sent to a country he has never seen.

He said the government is overreaching in response to the Sept. 11 attacks.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    December 27, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

MEASURE TARGETS IMMIGRANTS' FEARS
CITY TO STUDY BANNING STATUS CHECKS

BYLINE: Toni Coleman, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1038 words


Some Hispanic victims of domestic abuse feel they have to choose between an
angry fist or seeing the entire family deported, and many of them end up dealing
with the abuse. They aren't likely to call the police if they think their
immigration status will be called into question.

"That's more common than not. This is true for women who are here with
documentation and women who are here without documentation," said Lupe Serrano,
executive director of Casa de Esperanza, a St. Paul shelter for battered
Hispanic women and children.

Women who are here legally often fear excessive use of city services will in
some way jeopardize their efforts to become U.S. citizens, she said.

It's the kind of problem that can be helped by a proposed ordinance the St. Paul
City Council will likely take up in January, supporters say. The proposal, they
say, would ensure that all have equal access to services, such as police
protection and housing inspections, by precluding city employees from inquiring
about immigration status.

The measure -- known as the INS/City Separation Ordinance -- would encourage
women to seek help by allaying fears that the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) -- formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
-- will be called, Serrano said.

But opponents, who call such measures "sanctuary policies," say local
authorities are the "Achilles' heel" in the federal government's effort to
prevent future terrorist attacks.

A coalition of labor unions, faith-based social justice groups and civil rights
organizations, called the Local Impacts of the War on Terrorism Work Group, has
been meeting with Mayor Randy Kelly, Police Chief William Finney and City
Council members to promote the proposed ordinance.

Supporters think they have enough votes on the incoming council to pass the
measure next month, which would add St. Paul to at least two states (Alaska and
Oregon) and 18 cities (including Minneapolis, Baltimore and Seattle) to pass
such a measure.

The St. Paul ordinance would be an extension of a 1998 St. Paul police policy
that prohibits officers from "independently undertaking to approach, interview,
interrogate or arrest any suspected illegal alien" when immigration status
violation is the principal issue. Unless there's another crime, police won't
actively pursue people suspected of violating immigration laws.

Although federal officials have called on local police to help with immigration
enforcement, some say police don't have the training to understand the wide
variety of immigration documents or the resources to do the work of ICE, which
investigates immigration law violations inside the country.

Council Member Pat Harris, the likely sponsor, sees the request for local
authorities to enforce immigration laws as an unfunded mandate.

"We think the police officers have enough to do in our city right now that they
don't need to do the work of INS. Once again, a higher level of government is
pushing a duty on local governments and not attaching the dollars to do it,"
Harris said, adding that local officials would continue to cooperate with
federal authorities on criminal investigations.

Critics say those violating immigration laws should be picked up, but others see
practical problems in attempting that.

"Some folks are here illegally, but many are not. How do we know? Are we going
to stop everyone who might be Latino? You don't have to be Latino to come here
illegally," says Vic Rosenthal, executive director of Jewish Community Action, a
faith-based social justice organization. Rosenthal notes that white Canadians
here illegally might not be subject to the same scrutiny because they are
Caucasian.

Proponents of the ordinance say having local authorities act like immigration
agents opens the door to racial profiling and raises the question, Where does it
stop? Police, they say, would have to ask everyone to prove if he or she were a
U.S. citizen or had a valid visa.

That's exactly what the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national
immigration reform watchdog group, wants police to do. Spokesman David Ray says
police should inquire about immigration status as routinely as they ask for a
driver's license and registration.

He notes that a few of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists, including one who was
here on a student visa but never showed up for class, had been stopped by local
authorities for speeding. Police could be trained, he says, and U.S. citizens
not traveling with documents would be protected if police ran their Social
Security numbers.

"When we know who's in the country, citizens and immigrants alike will be
safer," Ray says.

ICE is too understaffed to adequately enforce immigration laws, and local police
should be the first line of defense, Ray says. Otherwise, taxpayers are funding
"redundant policing" when local law officers say immigration is not their job.
That's tantamount to a police officer watching someone get beat to death across
the street and saying, "Sorry, that's not my beat," Ray says.

Local ICE spokesman Tim Counts says the agency understands the problem police
have with crime victims and witnesses unwilling to come forward.

"We have concerns about limits put on local law enforcement agencies when there
are national security concerns," he says. However, ICE doesn't have jurisdiction
over local authorities and remains available 24 hours a day to authorities who
want to check identity and immigration status.

The ordinance has drawn support from a wide variety of cross-cultural groups,
including the Council of Black Minnesotans, the Council of Asian Pacific
Minnesotans, the Confederation of Somali Community and Jewish Community Action.

"There's a real belief this is the right thing to do," Rosenthal said. "There's
enough concern, without something like this, (that) immigrants may not be
protected."

FYI

To learn more about the debate over policies on checking immigration status,
check out these Internet sites:

-- Minnesota Alliance for Progressive Action: www.mapa-mn.org

-- Federation for American Immigration Reform: www.fairus.org

Toni Coleman can be reached at tcoleman@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5442.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MINNESOTA

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     FEBRUARY 1, 2004 Sunday EARLY EDITION

GROUP'S PROJECT IS DEMOCRACY IN ACTION IDEA TO CHANGE THE U.S. CITIZENSHIP TEST
WAS GRASSROOTS EFFORT

BYLINE: TOM WEBB, Washington Correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 910 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When President Bush said this month that it's time to revamp the U.S.
citizenship test, it marked a triumph for a group of former students from St.
Paul's Humboldt High School.

Those students -- mostly children of immigrants, especially Hmong refugees --
had watched family members struggle to memorize the test's array of 100
questions. And they wondered: Isn't there a better way to measure citizenship?

So starting in 1998, the students worked to find one. They proposed changes,
then advocated their ideas in Minnesota, and even flew to Washington in 2001 to
meet members of Congress and immigration officials.

"We had hands-on experience with the test, and we saw a lot of the flaws with
it," said Nick Longo, the group's instructor. "We thought the test should be
different, it should be based not only on what you know, but what you do -- on
the practice of citizenship, and not just on facts and figures."

The students pushed the project for nearly four years, until they finally
scattered to different schools in 2002. Then this month, President Bush picked
up the theme as he unveiled his immigration reform plan.

"My administration will examine the standard of knowledge in the current
citizenship test," Bush announced Jan. 7. "We must ensure that new citizens know
not only the facts of our history, but the ideals that have shaped our history."

Russ Knocke, Washington spokesman at the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, notes that the idea of revamping the citizenship test has been
discussed for a number of years and wasn't unique to the Humboldt group. But
Knocke does credit the Humboldt students for being "ahead of the curve,"
particularly with the students advocating a citizenship test that demonstrated
deeds, rather than just memorizing civic facts.

"That's some of the things we're working on," Knocke said. "Maybe they should
come to work with us. They're really on to something. They came up with an idea
that the Office of Citizenship has (also) come up with, undertaking a broader
project they call 'civic integration.' "

The current citizenship test is drawn from a roster of 100 possible questions.
Some of the answers are widely known (What are the colors in the American flag?)
but others are so obscure they prompted the Humboldt students to make a humorous
video, asking passers-by questions such as "How many amendments have been added
to the U.S. Constitution?" (Answer: 27, which native-born Americans invariably
didn't know).

Gerri Ratliff, who is overseeing the test overhaul in Washington, recently said
on National Public Radio that one goal is to make the questions more meaningful.

"Most of those 100 questions tend to be -- some call it political trivia ... but
they aren't the reason why people choose to become an American," Ratliff said.
"No one says, 'I think I want to naturalize because red, white and blue happen
to be my favorite colors.' So we want the content to be geared more toward the
concepts, the ideals, the principles that really are the reasons people want to
become U.S. citizens."

That's what the Humboldt students were advocating in 2001, when they visited
Capitol Hill. Back then, student Nicole Ly told the late U.S. Sen. Paul
Wellstone, "Our mom has been through these citizenship classes for about the
last two years, and it's just memorizing." She and her fellow students advocated
a test that encouraged new citizens to learn how government works, their rights
and responsibilities and how to register to vote.

Today, Nicole Ly's mother -- and more recently, her father -- has become a U.S.
citizen. "That was a very big moment for him and his family," she said. But she
still thinks that the test could be improved, with less memorization and more
understanding of American ideals.

"Knowing those facts aren't the things that stick with you for being a good
citizen," she said. "It's like voting, and knowing how your government works and
being involved."

Longo, the instructor who led the course for college credit with Metro State
University, said of the effort, "This is what democracy should look like, at its
best, where ordinary citizens have an ability to affect public policy. That's
what we taught in this class, and that's what we all hoped would come out of
this."

It's true that the Humboldt students didn't force the issue onto the national
agenda. Rather, they were part of a grassroots movement that saw a problem where
others did not, pushed for reform and helped raised the issue to greater
prominence. That's how most grassroots efforts work -- it's not one person or
one group, but a broad coalition that presses for change over time.

Rep. Betty McCollum, D-St. Paul, met several times with the Humboldt group and
found their goals differed from many other student lobbying efforts.

"When I was back in the statehouse, the kind of (student) project I would get
would be, name the state muffin, or the state butterfly ... but this really
addressed a fundamental issue that goes to the core of being an American
citizen," McCollum said, later adding, "This was unique in that it wasn't
anything that was going to benefit them directly, but they were looking at
something that would benefit our country."

And who knows? With the U.S. government now seeking input on the citizenship
test, Knocke expressed an interest in meeting with the onetime Humboldt
students.

"We're always looking for quality personnel," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version appeared in City Edition on Page 1C.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PIONEER PRESS FILE PHOTO

Hlee Thao, left, Kong Her, Nick Longo, Nicole Ly and Vickie Lee talk with U.S.
Sen. Mark Dayton, D-Minn., about the U.S. citizenship test in 2001.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 13, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

JUDGE FAULTS ASYLUM PROCESS
RULING IN ST. PAUL MAN'S CASE CITES BREAKDOWN IN GRANTING RESIDENT STATUS

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 639 words


A St. Paul federal judge Thursday described delays in processing many
immigration cases as "a national embarrassment" and ordered the government to
extend permanent resident status to nearly 22,000 people who have been granted
asylum in this country.

Ruling on a class-action lawsuit that originated with a Cameroon man who lives
in St. Paul, U.S. District Judge Richard Kyle also ordered the government to
give all asylum holders, or "asylees," proper documents showing they are
eligible to work.

Venantius Ngwanyia arrived in St. Paul in 1994 and applied for permanent
resident status in 1996.

"I'm really happy and very thankful," Ngwanyia, 45, said Thursday night after
learning of the decision.

Ngwanyia, who works in delivery for an import-export firm, said waiting for more
than seven years has been frustrating.

"I know some who have come to this country way after me and they have their
green card," Ngwanyia said. "It's pretty frustrating because you don't know what
your tomorrow is like. You don't know if you are a permanent resident or not."

Kyle said the government had "botched" its legal obligation to asylees, saying
its violations were "so widespread, so egregious and so plainly harmful to
asylees as a class as to constitute nothing short of a national embarrassment."

The lawsuit was filed by the American Immigration Law Foundation of Washington,
D.C., on behalf of more than 150,000 asylum holders. The lawsuit mainly targeted
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has since been abolished and
partly folded into the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services within the
Department of Homeland Security.

"We think it's a very strong opinion and should send a message to the
government," said Nadine Wettstein, director of the foundation's Legal Action
Center.

Kyle's decision means nearly 22,000 asylum holders who are at the top of the
waiting list should get green cards soon, and the approximately 130,000
applicants who will remain on the list should have a shorter wait, Wettstein
said. She estimated it still will take 12 to 13 years to clear the backlog
unless Congress changes the law.

Delays in getting permanent residency mean delays in getting citizenship because
a permanent resident must wait five years before becoming a citizen.

Wettstein also said the decision means that all people granted asylum are
entitled to get clear documentation showing that they're eligible to work, and
that the permit can't expire as long as the person has asylum.

Under federal law, the government can give permanent resident status to 10,000
refugees per fiscal year. But from 1994 to 2002, the government failed for
various reasons to use all the allotted slots, leaving nearly 22,000 applicants
stuck on the waiting list. The government claimed the unused slots expired at
the end of each fiscal year.

Kyle disagreed, saying the government is legally obligated to fill the slots.

The judge said the law clearly requires the government to issue work permits to
all asylees. He said it cannot require them to reapply for those documents
annually at a cost of $120 as it now does, and said the permits must remain
valid as long as a person has asylum.

Kyle said current procedures "border on the Kafkaesque" because various offices
within the government that make asylum decisions have different requirements and
issue different documents that are valid for varying lengths of time.

The judge gave both sides 60 days to negotiate a schedule for complying with his
order, or he will set the deadlines himself.

A Justice Department spokesman in Washington, Charles Miller, said the agency
hadn't seen Kyle's decision and would have to review it before deciding what its
next step would be.

Bill Gardner and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 24, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

JUSTICES TO HEAR SOMALI'S CASE
MINNESOTA MAN SAYS HUMAN RIGHTS FIGURE IN DEPORTATION LAW

BYLINE: MARIE McCAINPioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 664 words


A Minnesota man's fight to keep U.S. officials from sending him back to his
war-torn Somalia is heading to the Supreme Court.

On Monday, the nation's highest court agreed to hear arguments in the case of
Keyse G. Jama, who contends federal officials are ignoring a 50-year-old law
that prohibits the deportation of an immigrant to his homeland without the
approval of that country's government.

To send him back now, the 25-year-old Jama argues, would be equivalent to giving
him a death sentence. For almost four years he has been locked up while fighting
to avoid returning to his homeland.

But attorneys with the U.S. Department of Justice's Civil Division, Office of
Immigration, have countered that the government has the authority to remove any
foreign national the courts have ordered to leave because of criminal
convictions or violations of immigration law.

Jama, who came here in 1996 as a 17-year-old refugee, is subject to removal
because of a third-degree assault conviction stemming from a 1999 fight in
Hennepin County. He completed his criminal sentence in June 2000 but has been in
immigration custody since that time.

This case, which is being followed closely by Somalis locally and nationwide,
has resulted in divergent opinions from two federal appeals courts -- one siding
with Jama's argument, the other with the government.

"I am optimistic about this," said Saeed Fahia, executive director of the
Minneapolis-based Confederation of Somali Community in Minnesota. "It is good
that (the Supreme Court) wants to listen to the argument. They could have said
no. They are taking this seriously."

The confederation provides Somali immigrants with youth programs and
after-school recreation, as well as assistance with interpretation and
translation of important paperwork.

Jama's case also has become the inspiration for a class-action lawsuit that led
to a court-ordered ban on the deportation of nearly 3,000 Somalis from this
country. The U.S. Supreme Court will decide, once and for all, how the
deportation law should be interpreted.

Jeffrey Keyes and Kevin Magnuson, Jama's attorneys, say the case may be heard
later this year or early next year, depending on the high court's caseload.

"This has been a long hard fight," said Magnuson. "It's a major milestone and
while we are pleased, we aren't really surprised. ... It's very necessary for
the Supreme Court to look at this case."

Both men, who are working for free on Jama's lawsuit with Minnesota Advocates
for Human Rights, say it is important to ensure that U.S. statutes are in line
with human rights considerations.

Somali nationals say their country has been engulfed in civil war for years and
there is no stable government to approve of a deportee's return to his homeland.

The U.S. government, before Jama's lawsuit, deported about 200 Somalis. Some
were initially taken to Kenya and then driven to the Somali border where they
walked into their country, officials said, while others were flown in and left
without needed documentation.

"What the government has failed to say is what happened to those who have
already been deported," Keyes said.

Keyes, who will argue on behalf of Jama before the Supreme Court, said it would
be a mistake to believe that the justices will decide the case along liberal or
conservative lines. Instead, Keyes said, he'll do well to study similar
arguments that have already gone before the court.

"This will be a matter of anticipating the concerns of the different justices,"
Keyes said. "It would be a mistake to jump to any conclusions."

Despite the cautionary words from Keyes, Somali advocacy groups say they are
encouraged.

"Any deportation ... back to Somalia with complete absence of a functioning
government would endanger the deportees' lives," said Omar Jamal, executive
director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center, in Minneapolis.

Marie McCain can be reached at mmccain@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Keyse Jama

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      March 18, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

RAMSEY COUNTY BRIEFING

SECTION: LOCAL; RAMSEY COUNTY BRIEFING; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 397 words


ST. PAUL

Proposal would limit immigration queries

St. Paul City Council Member Pat Harris introduced an ordinance Wednesday that
would limit the occasions in which police officers and other city workers could
ask people about their immigration status.

A coalition of labor unions, social justice organizations and civil rights
groups has been working with Harris, Mayor Randy Kelly and other city officials
to develop the ordinance.

Some Hispanic leaders have said that many immigrants fear calling the police or
the city to report abuse and other issues because they fear being asked about
their immigration status.

The proposed ordinance would prohibit city employees from asking people about
their immigration status or show immigration documents unless the inquiry is
"specifically required" by law. The ordinance also would forbid police officers
from taking law enforcement actions for the "sole purpose of detecting the
presence of undocumented persons."

Kelly announced his support for an immigration measure in January.

Council members approved Harris' resolution Wednesday on first reading. If the
proposed ordinance follows the normal course, it would be the subject of a
public hearing April 7 and be set for final approval on April 14.

-- Robert Ingrassia

WHITE BEAR LAKE SCHOOLS

Administrative changes unveiled

In keeping with their plan to reduce and reorganize staffing to help balance
their budget, White Bear Lake Area Schools officials Wednesday announced an
administrator also will be taking on a principal's duties.

Larry DeNucci, director of schools, will retain most of his districtwide
responsibilities but also will become principal at South Campus of White Bear
Lake Area High School, beginning next school year. Audrey Buss, the principal at
South Campus, is retiring.

Figuring salary, benefits and other compensation, the savings will be about
$125,000, according to Susan Brott, communications coordinator for White Bear
schools.

The district also announced that Barbara Kearn, principal at Hugo Elementary,
will become principal at Willow Lane next school year because Willow Lane
principal Jeanne Eisenbarth is retiring.

The opening for a principal at Hugo will be posted next week.

Last week, the White Bear Lake Area School Board approved $2.15 million in
budget reductions for 2004-05.

-- Cynthia Boyd

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 6, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

COUNCIL OKS ORDINANCE AIMED AT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: ROBERT INGRASSIAPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


The St. Paul City Council gave final approval Wednesday to an ordinance that
aims to make immigrants less fearful about calling the police or seeking other
city services.

Council Member Pat Harris fought for the ordinance, which he wrote with input
from several minority organizations. The measure passed 6-1, with Council
President Dan Bostrom casting the lone vote in opposition.

The ordinance forbids city employees, including police officers, from asking
about someone's immigration status unless such questions are related to the
service being sought or are required by law.

Backers said many immigrants, particularly those in the country illegally, are
afraid to report abuse or seek medical help for fear of being deported. They
said the ordinance would maintain a line between the local duties of city
workers and the federal responsibilities of immigration officials.

"It is a great success, not only for immigrants, but for all Americans," said
Hassan Mohamud, vice president of the Minnesota Chapter of the Muslim American
Society. "Now immigrants are free to access police service without fear."

Harris has received a flurry of e-mails and phone calls from people opposed to
the ordinance, though no one spoke against the measure during a public council
hearing last week. Several e-mail writers have complained that the ordinance
would make St. Paul a haven for illegal immigration.

Harris said those fears are unfounded because the police department already has
been operating under a policy similar to the one in the ordinance. The new
measure merely codifies that policy, he said.

Bostrom said he voted against the ordinance because he opposed a provision that
would punish officers and other city employees for violations.

"I'm not suggesting it's OK to hassle people on the street, but I recognize that
police officers get into some extreme circumstances, and they are doing what
they think at the time is best to protect citizens," he said. "The chilling
effect of having a complaint and losing your job, I couldn't support it."

Robert Ingrassia can be reached at ringrassia@pioneerpress.com or 651-292-1892.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        May 9, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

WEEK IN REVIEW

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 486 words


ST. PAUL

Protection plan for immigrants OK'd

The St. Paul City Council gave final approval Wednesday to an ordinance that
aims to make immigrants less fearful about calling the police or seeking other
city services.

Council Member Pat Harris fought for the ordinance, which he wrote with input
from several minority organizations. The measure passed 6-1, with Council
President Dan Bostrom casting the lone vote in opposition.

The ordinance forbids city employees, including police officers, from asking
about someone's immigration status unless such questions are related to the
service being sought or are required by law.

Backers said many immigrants, particularly those in the country illegally, are
afraid to report abuse or seek medical help for fear of deportation. They said
the ordinance would maintain a line between the local duties of city workers and
the federal responsibilities of immigration officials.

MAPLEWOOD

Priory Preserve future weighed

Maplewood officials are seeking public input as they plan to restore the Priory
Preserve at Larpenteur and Century avenues, and it's already clear there are
plenty of opinions.

"This is the community's public land. They need to determine what they would
like to see it become," said Bruce Anderson, director of Maplewood Parks and
Recreation.

Mike McLellan, who lives just steps away from the 46-acre preserve, envisions a
network of trails friendly to his dirt bike.

That's exactly what Butch Gervais, whose Montana Avenue home overlooks the
preserve, doesn't want.

"If you put a hard surface (trail) in there, you're going to get people with
dirt bikes running through there," said Gervais, the city's fire marshal. "We
want to stay nice and quiet."

ARDEN HILLS

Church expansion riles neighbors

A proposed expansion by the North Heights Lutheran Church in Arden Hills has met
with neighborhood resistance, and now the city's planning commission is
recommending that the City Council deny the church's request.

The church -- which also has a sanctuary in Roseville -- wants permission to
amend its master site plan to build a 3,750-seat sanctuary on the northwest
quadrant of its nearly 42-acre Arden Hills site.

It would join its current 1,200-seat sanctuary, which is at about 80 percent of
its capacity, said Peter Hellegers, the city planner for Arden Hills.

Residents have complained about the size of the expansion and the possible
traffic impact.

The church attempted to address some of these concerns by scratching plans for
an additional retreat center, reducing the seats in its sanctuary by 250 and
making the building 5 feet shorter, said the Rev. Robert Cottingham, senior
pastor. Attempts at compromise have proved unsuccessful, he said.

The church does not have immediate plans to expand, despite its requests for an
amendment, he said.

The proposal will be presented at the May 24 council meeting.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 23, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

JUDGE CLOSES HEARING IN DETAINEE'S TERRORISM CASE
AGENCY: APPEARANCE WAS ONLY PROCEDURAL

BYLINE: Staff and wire reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 294 words


An immigration judge in Bloomington closed his courtroom to spectators and
reporters Thursday, thereby continuing the mystery surrounding a terrorism probe
that was triggered by the Twin Cities airport arrest of a man earlier this
month.

Ali Mohamed Almosaleh, whose age and home country have not been released, was
arrested July 7 at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport after he
arrived from a journey that had begun in Damascus, Syria. He made his first
appearance before the immigration judge Thursday morning.

Tim Counts, a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said Thursday's hearing was procedural and did not concern the
merits of the charges against the man.

Counts did not explain why the hearing was closed, other than to note that
"judges can do that" and that closed hearings are "occasional" in immigration
matters. One purpose of Thursday's hearing was to set dates for other
proceedings, including a merits hearing that could take place within a week,
Counts said. The hearing is to resume Aug. 12, said Greg Gagne, a spokesman in
the Executive Office of Immigration Review in Virginia.

Dick Zonneveld, an attorney for Almosaleh, didn't immediately return a call
seeking comment.

Almosaleh is charged with two separate violations: "misrepresentation of a
material fact in a document to get into the United States" and not having proper
documentation to get into the United States, according to Gagne.

Federal authorities have not confirmed reports that Almosaleh was carrying a
written note that detailed plans for a public suicide and that he had CDs and
DVDs that contained anti-American material.

Those details have been reported by several television stations in the Twin
Cities.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TWIN CITIES

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     August 25, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

JAPAN ORDERS FISCHER DEPORTED
BUT FORMER CHESS CHAMP APPEALS

BYLINE: AUDREY MCAVOY, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 550 words


TOKYO -- Japan on Tuesday ordered Bobby Fischer deported, but the former chess
champion immediately appealed the case in court, meaning he won't be sent out of
the country right away. The government also ruled Fischer did not qualify as a
political refugee.

Fischer has been in custody since he was detained by Japanese airport
authorities on July 13 with an invalid U.S. passport. The former chess great is
wanted in the United States for violating international sanctions against
Yugoslavia in 1992. He contends the charges against him are politically
motivated.

Fischer was informed of Justice Minister Daizo Nozawa's decision to expel him
and reject his asylum application by immigration authorities at the detention
center north of Tokyo where he is being held.

The Justice Ministry did not say when Fischer would be deported, but ministry
official Hideharu Maruyama said he would most likely be sent to the United
States. Fischer's supporters said an immigration case worker had threatened to
put him on a plane Tuesday night.

"The justice minister's judgment was that there was no justification for
Fischer's appeal," Maruyama said.

Fischer's lawyers said they immediately filed suit seeking to halt the
deportation, which should ensure Fischer is allowed to stay in Japan while the
case is considered by a judge, his supporters said.

Fischer's legal team accused Nozawa of relying heavily on advice from the U.S.
government in making his decision. They also criticized Tokyo for rejecting
Fischer's asylum application only 20 days after it was submitted.

"This raises serious doubts about the fairness and neutrality of the refugee
application process," his lawyer Masako Suzuki said.

Fischer said he deserved refugee status because the United States was
persecuting him.

Fischer's supporters said they were confident he won't be sent to the United
States once a judge examines the case.

Fischer rose to chess stardom by defeating Boris Spassky, formerly of the Soviet
Union, in a series of games in 1972 to claim the world championship.

However, he became erratic and reclusive after the Spassky match and lost his
title as world champion in 1978.

In a 1992 rematch against Spassky, Fischer won and collected more than $3
million in prize money, violating U.N. sanctions by attending the match in the
former Yugoslavia.

In recent years, Fischer has emerged from silence in radio broadcasts and on his
Web page to express anti-Semitic views and rail against America.

On a Web site Fischer's supporters acknowledge to be his home page, Fischer
launches numerous attacks on Jews and decries the "international Jewish
conspiracy" and "Jew-controlled U.S.," which he says are behind plots to both
rule the world and ruin his life.

Fischer's animosity toward his homeland is well-known, and he once praised the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, saying America should be "wiped out."

Fischer has tried a number of steps to thwart his deportation since he was taken
into custody. He first said he would renounce his U.S. citizenship. He then got
engaged to the head of the Japan Chess Association, a Japanese woman who said
they had been living together for the past four years.

Spassky wrote a letter to President Bush asking him to show Fischer mercy.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: TATSUYA ONISHI,

ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE PHOTO

Bobby Fischer is transferred from the Narita immigration branch office to the
East Japan Immigration Center in Narita on Aug. 10.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    SEPTEMBER 1, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

PAWLENTY WANTS CITY POLICIES REPEALED
MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL ORDINANCES MAY WEAKEN U.S. SECURITY, HE SAYS

BYLINE: RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 603 words


Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty wants Minneapolis and St. Paul to repeal policies
that limit police officers' ability to ask people about their immigration
status.

Both cities have ordinances forbidding local police officers to do so, except in
specific circumstances.

In letters sent last week to the Minneapolis and St. Paul city council
presidents, Pawlenty said the ordinances are not responsible and may "impact the
security of the entire state and nation." He said the policies might violate
federal immigrant law.

Pawlenty took it a step further Tuesday. He said, "To say that we are going to
elevate political correctness over homeland security issues is not a good
trade-off. It's not a smart trade-off."

Pawlenty said he could not recall sending similar letters to local government
officials before. He sent the letters, he said, after he heard about a North
Carolina case in which authorities detained a man on immigration violations
after he was caught filming financial institutions and other buildings.

Some law enforcement officials and city leaders here and elsewhere have
suggested illegal immigrants might not seek police help -- as a witness or crime
victim -- if their immigration status would come into question.

Officials in Minneapolis and St. Paul said the letter might prompt them to
review their policies regarding the role of police in immigration issues.

"We will be closely looking at our current ordinance and how it really stacks
up. ... We wanted nothing that would prohibit police officers from identifying
criminal suspects," St. Paul Deputy Mayor Dennis Flaherty said.

The St. Paul City Council passed an ordinance this spring that forbids city
employees from asking someone's immigration status unless required to do so by
law or if the questions are related to the city services being sought.

Minneapolis City Council President Paul Ostrow said he would be willing to sit
down with the governor or members of his staff to discuss Pawlenty's concerns.
But, he said, police are not charged with enforcing immigration laws, and he
believes Minneapolis' ordinance, passed last summer, was "consistent with good
practice."

In a statement, Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak said he welcomed talks on homeland
security issues, but he chided the governor for supporting budget cuts that have
hurt city's police and fire departments.

"The most urgent homeland security issue facing the city is funding for local
police and firefighters on the front lines," Rybak said.

Even before the ordinances were passed, police in both cities had policies that
made clear that police officers are not supposed to ask people about their
immigration status. The St. Paul police have had such a policy since 1986.

"That has been our policy for many, many years," said Paul Schnell, spokesman
for the St. Paul police. "It is still the policy that's in place. ... Police are
prohibited from inquiring as to the status of the person."

Ostrow said many cities have struggled with balancing the role of local law
enforcement officials and that of federal immigration officials. But, he said,
"the reality of it is, immigration laws are enforced by federal immigration
officials."

Given potential concerns about changing the policies, Pawlenty wrote, "local law
enforcement should, at the very least, be allowed to inquire about immigration
status when homeland security concerns are present."

Pawlenty said he believed the ordinances should be repealed outright.

"It just is not a wise choice," he said.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IMMIGRATION ISSUES

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 28, 2004 Tuesday ST. PAUL EDITION

RWANDAN MAN WILL BE DEPORTED
INQUIRY LINKED HIM TO 1994 GENOCIDE IN AFRICA

BYLINE: Phillip Pina, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 460 words


A Rwandan man arrested three years ago trying to fly into the Twin Cities was
ordered deported, becoming the first person refused admission into the country
on genocide accusations.

Enos Irigaba Kagaba, 49, was arrested Dec. 14, 2001, at the Minneapolis-St. Paul
International Airport and accused of attempting to enter the United States
without valid documents and fraud for misrepresenting his identity.

Investigators here and abroad later linked Kagaba to acts of genocide committed
during the 1994 war in Rwanda that left 800,000 dead.

"The United States will not be a safe haven for human rights abusers," said
Kristine D'Alesandro, acting chief of the Human Rights Law Division of the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in a prepared statement.

The case is the first in which a foreigner was ruled inadmissible for having
engaged in genocide, a grounds for denying admission since 1990.

Kagaba denied the immigration charge when he appeared in immigration court. But
a federal immigration judge sustained the genocide charge as well as the charge
that he didn't have proper documents to enter the country.

A Board of Immigrant Appeals in suburban Washington, D.C., earlier this month
upheld the judge's ruling.

However, late Monday, Kagaba filed a petition to prevent his removal, said Russ
Knocke, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman. He said the agency
would continue to press for his removal.

From April to July 1994, after four years of civil war between Rwanda's Hutu
majority and Tutsi minority, hard-line Hutu militias slaughtered more than
800,000 ethnic Tutsis, and any Hutus who opposed them, in a genocide allegedly
planned by military officials of the central African country.

Kagaba has relatives in the Twin Cities. He had denied involvement in the
genocide, noting that he was a headmaster at a school in Zambia at the time of
the 1996 allegations and that the charges stemmed from a disagreement with his
boss at the school, an attorney of his said in 2002. That attorney, Albert
Usumanu, said he no longer represents Kagaba.

Officials have not said where Kagaba has been held since his arrest. The
deportation will take several weeks as officials make travel arrangements as
well as work out an agreement for a country, possibly Rwanda, to accept him.

Genocide is an act -- such as killing, harming or taking measures to prevent
births -- committed with the intent to destroy a national, ethnic, racial or
religious group.

Kagaba's alleged role in the genocide is not clear, said Tim Counts, spokesman
for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the Twin Cities, with court
information closed to the public.

Phillip Pina can be reached at ppina@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2162.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IMMIGRATION

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 17, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

SEEKING TIERRA FIRMA
RESIDENTS OF AUSTIN, MINN., WHICH HAS ITS SHARE OF ILLEGAL WORKERS, SEE
OPPORTUNITIES AND PITFALLS IN A PROPOSAL TO ALLOW THEM TO STAY.

BYLINE: Jim Ragsdale, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; OF THE PEOPLE; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1041 words


AUSTIN, Minn. -- The store on Main Street is called "Mi Tierra," but the man
shopping for tortillas here would have to cross a continent to find his tierra,
his homeland.

He gave his name as Santiago and recently told his story, of leaving a wife and
four children in Oaxaca, well south of Mexico City, and coming north for work in
New York, Florida, North Carolina, Florida and Missouri before landing a job in
a slaughterhouse here. He said he sends $500 a month home but has visited his
family only three times during his 10-year odyssey.

Santiago is 36 and does not have papeles or documentos, the magical papers or
documents signifying legal immigration status. He is part of an illegal nation
the size of New Jersey that dwells among us, flooding across the border to
butcher pigs and clean hotels and wash dishes in the global economy.

Earlier this week, President Bush was in Mexico discussing his plan to offer
Santiago and the millions of other undocumented workers temporary legal status,
after which they would have to return to their native tierra. Santiago thought
it sounded good, because it would allow him to legally visit his family, get
work under his own name and obtain a driver's license.

Mi Tierra proprietor Juan Guerrero, a U.S. citizen born in Mexico, chimed in his
support, saying Santiago's story is common here. "Every 100 people, 20 have
papers -- 80 have no papers," he said. "If Bush does something like this, he'd
be the No. 1 president of the U.S."

Welcome to Ow-steen, as the Spanish speakers pronounce it.

The home of Hormel Foods is one of many Minnesota communities that has attracted
new immigrants in search of low-skilled jobs, particularly food processing work,
in the past decade. But while the United States has legally settled thousands of
Vietnamese, Hmong and Somali refugees, Mexican workers like Santiago are here
illegally, with no official status.

"They want to be legalized, to come out of the shadows," said Dan Donnelly, an
Austin lawyer whose sign outside his office says El Abogado (the Lawyer) and
whose practice is centered on immigration cases. He said he received about 50
calls after Bush announced his plan on Jan. 7, most of them asking, "Where do I
sign up?"

Donnelly would not estimate how many undocumented workers are in Austin, which
is on the northern edge of the great passage of humanity. Current national
estimates are in the neighborhood of 8 million to 9 million, according to the
Pew Hispanic Center, a Southern California survey and research group.

Frank Bean, an immigration expert at the University of California at Irvine,
estimated that three-fourths of undocumented workers are from Mexico and Central
America, and that nearly one-third have been in the United States 10 years or
more.

Their lives are defined by their documents, and it is believed these workers
often use false identities to get jobs. Donnelly said he tells clients that this
is fraud, and that doing this can make it impossible for them to ever achieve
legal status. "I tell them, that's a permanent bar to ever receiving a green
card," he said.

Some have viewed Bush's plan as an election-year pitch to Hispanic voters in
California and Texas, and are skeptical that it will become law any time soon.
Donnelly is concerned that a system that links the workers' stay to their jobs
would allow employers to threaten them with deportation if they complain.

"It's going to be hard to file a workers' comp claim from Indonesia," he said.

Paul Westrum of Albert Lea, Minn., who supports limits on legal immigration and
an end to illegal immigration, views Bush's plan as a back-door amnesty that is
good news for corporations that hire these workers. "What it is, is greed,"
Westrum said. "It's more profit for these companies."

Westrum, who is organizing like-minded immigration critics across the state,
questions how post-9/11 security can be assured with porous borders and
forgiving immigration policies. With U.S. unemployment at 6 percent, he believes
the jobs could go to U.S. citizens.

"I don't think we need these people," he said.

That is not the majority opinion in Austin. Officials here have embraced the
diversity boomlet, and community leaders are credited with being welcoming and
supportive. More change is on the way: One-fifth of Austin public school
students are minorities, and the Hispanic population surged 12 percent in the
past year.

Liliana Silvestry-Neilon, executive director of the Welcome Center, which
provides help to new arrivals, said many of the undocumented workers have
settled and raised families here. Unlike Santiago, whose family awaits him in
Mexico, these people see their future in the United States and will not be
interested in a plan that requires them to eventually go back to Mexico, she
said.

"How many are going to return?" she asked. "They will go back to the shadows."

For now, the envios de dinero money-order machines stay busy at Mi Tierra and at
the Jalisco market a few doors away. At Jalisco, proprietor Pantaleon Mata, a
U.S. citizen from Mexico, said up to $30,000 makes its way south over the phone
lines from his store every weekend.

Mata and Guererro of Mi Tierra believe these workers, regardless of their legal
status, provide an important service by doing difficult jobs that don't interest
Americans. The prospect of earning $9.50 an hour at the packing house may not
excite many Austin High School students as a career, but it is considered a
fortune on the other side of the NAFTA divide.

Whether Bush succeeds in giving legal status to Santiago and others without
documentos, the view from Austin is that economics will continue to drive people
to find a better life, and the community has to be prepared to welcome them.

"Immigration is a result of our economy, and the economy of the countries they
come from -- the disparity between the two," said Donnelly, who is likely to be
buried in the fine print of immigration law for years to come.

"This is real life -- it's reality," Silvestry-Neilon added. "People are going
to continue coming in."

Jim Ragsdale covers state government and politics and can be contacted at
jragsdale@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5529.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: On Page 9A: Bush wants new citizenship test.

GRAPHIC: 4 PHOTOS: JOE ODEN, PIONEER PRESS

1) Sandra Hernandez of Austin, Minn., bites into the taco she bought from the
vending truck operated by Georgina Meldonado and her husband, Custodio Serrano.
The Hispanic population surged 12 percent in Austin in the past year.

2) An increasing number of businesses serve the Spanish-speaking legal and
illegal workers who come to Austin for food processing and other low-skilled
jobs.

3) Pantaleon Mata, owner of Austin's Jalisco supermarket, and store manager
Julieta Balladares chat with customer Reyes Aranda of Albert Lea, Minn.

4) Dan Donnelly

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 3, 2003 Friday

9 killed in crash on Iowa interstate

BYLINE: BY CORI DROST; Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 317 words


MENLO, Iowa -- A pickup crammed with suspected illegal immigrants slammed into a
tractor-trailer on Interstate 80 early Thursday, killing all nine people in the
smaller truck.

The pickup crossed the median and hit the tractor-trailer around 2:30 a.m.,
about 30 miles west of Des Moines, the Iowa State Patrol said.

"It was a mess," said Fire Chief Ben Gilman, who was first on the scene.
"Everyone in the truck was dead. They probably died on impact."

All of the victims were Hispanic men and women, said Sgt. Mike Van Berkum of the
state patrol.

"We do have some idea to believe that these folks are not here legally, so it
may take some time to identify them because of that," Lt. Rob Hansen, patrol
spokesman, said. The truck had Colorado license plates.

Estela Biesemeyer, an agent with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Des Moines, said the number of people in the pickup, their ethnicity and the
fact they were headed east led investigators to suspect a smuggling operation.

"Smuggling through Iowa has always been here. Interstate 80 is a major route
these people take from the border," she said.

Biesemeyer said pickup trucks and vans are commonly used by smugglers, and the
agency has intercepted U-Haul trucks carrying as many as 50 people.

She said the INS probably would contact the consulates of Mexico or El Salvador
to try to identify the victims.

The cause of the crash was under investigation.

Berkum said the roads were not slippery and there was no indication that alcohol
was involved.

The driver of the tractor-trailer, William Hansen, 55, was taken to a hospital.
His condition was not disclosed.

The pickup was so badly damaged that troopers could not tell where the victims
had been seated, Rob Hansen said. It was not immediately clear whether the bed
of the truck was enclosed.

"Not many vehicles have nine seat belts in them," Hansen said.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 6, 2003 Monday

When it comes to U.S. security, Canada is the weakest link

BYLINE: BY JOEL MOWBRAY; Commentator

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 744 words


Everyone makes New Year's resolutions, but what people should do instead this
year is to tell elected officials that what we all need is for the government to
finally get serious about securing our borders.

This doesn't mean keeping out legal immigrants, but it does require hermetically
sealing the borders to illegals to prevent more terrorists from following the
Christmas lead of the five Pakistani men who slipped across the Canadian border.

Since we can't achieve true border security overnight, government officials
should start by fixing the things that are most broken. All 19 of the Sept. 11
terrorists came here on legal visas -- 15 of which were issued in one country,
Saudi Arabia -- so the attention that has been paid to visas was warranted and
is still necessary. The program formerly known as Visa Express -- where all
Saudi residents were expected to submit visa applications to private Saudi
travel agents -- was thankfully scrapped, but much work on the visa front
remains.

Applicants in Saudi Arabia, for example, still get approved for visas at far
higher rates than those from neighboring nations, even though we know the House
of Saud has allowed us to reap the Islamic radicalism that it sows. But at least
the public is now paying attention to visa policy. The same cannot be said,
however, for illegal immigration.

Illegal immigration isn't just about jobs and economics anymore. It's about
national security and terrorism. And in case people weren't able to piece
together on their own the link between an open door and terrorists using that
entryway, syndicated columnist Michelle Malkin made this connection the central
thesis of her blockbuster new book, "Invasion." In it, she wrote of the security
dangers posed by illegal immigration -- and the ease with which the five
Pakistanis crossed into the United States proves the prescience of her warnings.

Our neighbor to the north has become the weakest link in our border security.
Why? Because Canada is proudly the safe haven for all people, including thugs
and terrorists. And terrorists don't even have to deny their terrorist ties to
gain entry. Witness Mohammed Harkat, the 34-year-old pizza deliveryman in Ottawa
who also happens to be buddies with Abu Zubaydah, the former operational leader
of al-Qaida who is now in U.S. custody.

When Harkat, who was finally arrested last month, applied for asylum upon
arriving in Canada in 1995, he claimed he was fleeing persecution from the
Algerian government. He was granted refugee status in early 1997, and applied
for permanent residence three weeks later. Harkat needed asylum because was tied
up with the Armed Islamic Group, which seeks to impose an Islamic dictatorship
in Algeria "through the use of terrorist violence."

No wonder he was a marked man. But follow the logic: if someone wants to use
"terrorist violence" to overthrow a sitting government for being too
Western-influenced, then he is eligible for entry into our northern neighbor.
Comforting thought when you consider that the Canadian border is practically
unpatrolled.

The Algerian Armed Islamic Group has been on the map for at least several years
now, thanks to the efforts of Ahmed Ressam, also a refugee-seeker who was
planning on blowing up Los Angeles International airport in time for the
millennium celebrations. Luckily, an alert customs agent stopped Ressam at the
border and discovered the trunk full of explosives. That was three years ago.

Canada has, in fairness, stepped up its intelligence gathering and has been
working more closely with U.S. officials since Sept. 11, but it has actually
gotten worse in terms of laying down the welcome mat. According to a recent
report by the Center for Immigration Studies, Canada last year made it "easier
for asylum-seekers to apply for refugee status and (made) it more difficult for
those found not to be genuine refugees to be sent home" -- and that was two
months after Sept. 11. In fact, almost 100 percent of asylum-seekers in Canada
get a formal hearing with free legal advice, and being turned down does not
necessarily result in getting kicked out.

Government officials need to act with a concerted resolve to stem the tide of
terrorists streaming across our borders. Otherwise, it will be al-Qaida that
gets its New Year's resolutions.

Mowbray is a reporter for National Review, 215 Lexington Ave., 4th Floor, New
York, N.Y. 10016. Distributed by Knight Ridder News Service.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 17, 2003 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Unregistered delivery;
Advocates for pregnant, illegal immigrants say that -- sooner or later -- the
state will have to pay the price of not providing such women prenatal care.

BYLINE: BY RUBEN ROSARIO; Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1693 words


The pain, Dolores says, is more pronounced on one side, rather than evenly
spread out.

"Actually, I'm not sure if the baby's head is down or not,'' nurse-midwife
Phyllis Wernz responds in Spanish as the ultrasound amplifies the baby's
heartbeat in the small examination room.

"The baby -- do you feel its hiccups?''

"Oh, yes,'' Dolores says, chuckling. "Very much. Over here and over here....''

The 35-year-old undocumented immigrant is nine months pregnant. She recently had
to quit her part-time, $7-an-hour job cleaning private homes and offices in the
Twin Cities. The job did not provide health insurance.

Minnesota's state-funded Medical Assistance plan is paying for this visit and
all of her routine checkups, disease screening, nutritional advice and other
prenatal services. She is grateful for the help -- her fiance, also
undocumented, is a part-timer at McDonald's, and just coming up with $600 for
their monthly rent and utilities is tough.

Gov. Tim Pawlenty wants to eliminate state-funded health coverage for
undocumented immigrants, and benefits for people like Dolores would dry up July
1 under his proposed two-year, $28 billion budget. A small number of foreign
visitors on temporary visas also would be eliminated.

The proposal would save taxpayers $50 million in the next two years, patching
1.2 percent of a $4.2 billion shortfall. And it would eliminate services to an
estimated 4,511 undocumented people -- more than half of them pregnant women and
children. The only services the state would cover for undocumented immigrants
are labor, delivery and emergencies.

The proposal is one of hundreds of cost-cutting measures contained in the
voluminous 500-page budget, overshadowed by more high-profile issues such as
nursing home care and higher education. But few issues reveal the polar
philosophical differences between the two major parties of legislators, if not
the public, as much as the issue of undocumented immigrants.

"I agree with prenatal care,'' said Rep. Fran Bradley, a five-term Rochester
Republican who heads the state House committee that will begin reviewing this
measure Tuesday. "The issue is whether we should be providing it (to people here
illegally) with taxpayer money, or whether it should be done back in their home
country.''

Sen. Sheila Kiscaden, Independence Party-Rochester, is introducing a bill in the
Senate that would continue the coverage.

Dolores, who asked that her real name not be used, wishes people like Pawlenty
and Bradley would sit down with people like her before considering a measure
like this. "I and many other people work hard to make a life for ourselves and
our children and this is just wrong," she says. "That's what I would tell him."

Pawlenty's proposal would hit hardest in Hennepin County and in outstate areas
that attract undocumented workers for the agriculture and meat and poultry
processing industries. Critics of the plan predict three results:

* Publicly funded hospitals and clinics -- which can't turn away patients --
would be forced to provide more free care to uninsured people. The Minneapolis
Department of Health estimates nearly 40 percent of the undocumented people who
will be affected live in Minneapolis, most of them pregnant women and dependent
children. Hennepin County alone accounts for 50 percent of those affected
statewide. Community clinics like Centro de Salud in South Minneapolis, where
Dolores goes, and the Hennepin County Medical Center, the only exclusively
public funded hospital in the seven-county metro area, would incur higher costs
treating uninsured people.

* Without insurance, more women would forgo prenatal care, resulting in more
preventable birth defects among their children, whom the state will have to
cover because they will be born American citizens.

About 80 percent of patients receiving prenatal services at St. Paul's West Side
Community Clinic would lose coverage, and "many of the mothers are teens who
represent higher risk pregnancies,'' Lisa Edstrom, executive director of the
Neighborhood Health Care Network, told lawmakers last week. The 14-clinic
network provides primary health care and other services to 106,000 poor and
low-income Twin Cities-area patients, 40 percent of them children.

"These children will be American citizens and members of our community,'' added
Edstrom. "Lack of prenatal care will reduce the opportunity for mothers to make
the primary care connections needed to ensure well baby and child care.''

* An undergound work force that the state depends on might head to other states
where services haven't been cut. Victor Contreras, executive director of Centro
Campesino -- an Owatonna-based group that provides information and services to
the predominantly Latino migrant labor force -- said, "The fear here is that
once (undocumented workers) found out, they may go to friendlier states and not
come here, and whether they want to officially acknowledge it or not, the local
businesses around here will take a hit.''

Bradley, who earlier this year proposed eliminating coverage for legal
immigrants who aren't citizens yet, doesn't dispute studies indicating that $1
spent on prenatal services can save up to $3.38 that would otherwise be spent on
neonatal complications.

And he understands how easy it is for some people to paint him as a heavy on
this issue, perhaps even a bigot.

But he says his views are color-blind and ethnicity-blind. "I have no ax to
grind with immigrants and I understand that we are virtually all immigrants to
this country,'' says Bradley, who is of French, Belgian and Irish descent. "But
we have opened our borders far too much and we are far too tolerant of people
who are here illegally. The law is the law and we should abide by the law.''

Kevin Goodno, the former Republican legislator from Moorhead who now heads the
state Human Services agency, admits the cuts are driven by ideology as much as
by budget concerns.

He said the governor wants to expand food assistance for legal immigrants, and
he wants to make permanent some temporary programs for them. "But we drew the
line with people who are in this country illegally," he said. "It's hard to
justify scaling back programs and services for citizens and others who are here
legally, and continue to fund those for people who are not.''

Claudia Fuentes, executive director of Hispanic Advocacy and Community
Empowerment through Research, says the proposed cuts are just the latest in a
series of anti-immigrant policies and attitudes that have gained momentum
following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

"They are useful scapegoats for everything,'' said Fuentes. "Political posturing
and grandstanding directed against immigrants is a matter of historical record.
Cutting health care services to pregnant women n any pregnant women n is truly
uninformed.''

Dolores is the fourth pregnant woman on Medical Assistance Wernz has seen at the
Centro de Salud clinic this particular afternoon.

There was Norma, a 30-year-old undocumented mother of three from Guatemala who
is five months pregnant and recently had to leave a job at a frozen pizza-making
factory in Minneapolis for health reasons.

She was followed by Ampelia Aguyo, a permanent resident who came here 25 years
ago. A single mother of five, Aguyo was working more than 40 hours per week at a
Taco Bell before she was forced to quit because of high blood pressure. "The
last thing I want to do is go on welfare,'' said Aguyo.

Then there is Consuelo Romero. The 34-year-old permanent resident crossed the
border to California 17 years ago with the help of a "coyote'' smuggler, and
after various household and restaurant jobs there, the mother of two headed to
Minnesota, lured by the prospect of a better-paying job and a safer lifestyle.

Seven and one-half months pregnant, she works at a meat-processing plant,
lifting and cutting the fat off 25- to 30-pound slabs of meat while wearing a
coat to fend off the cold.

Her live-in boyfriend, Juan Perez, 49, who is awaiting permanent resident
status, was recently laid off from a compact disc factory. He has state
coverage, but he would lose it under the governor's proposal.

Wernz says she doesn't see legal or illegal as she examines Romero. She sees a
hard-working woman, a modern-day representative of the generations of people who
have come to, and continue to arrive in, this country in search of a better
life.

A nurse/midwife for more than 20 years, the Minnesota native spent part of her
career treating similar patients at public hospitals in Brownsville and the
South Bronx, historically two of New York City's poorest neighborhoods.

She remembers the endless line of patients, women in labor in the hallways
because of lack of bed space and many others turned away by hospital security
because there was no other place to put them.

"Frankly, I got burned out and it was nice to come back here because though the
health care system is not perfect, these people were treated decently and with
respect,'' Wernz said. "But if this bill passes it will feel like the old days
in New York. People should not be OK with babies being born premature or even
dying. And that's what may happen.''

Tyrone Guzman, director of the social service center that includes Centro de
Salud, is putting together a contingency plan in case the proposal becomes law.

"We are not going to abandon these people,'' said Guzman, a St. Paul native and
fourth generation Minnesotan of Mexican heritage. "We have a principle in this
country, particularly in this state, that some things are sacred: healthy
children, healthy mothers, healthy pregnancies. Minnesota has put so much money
into that whole philosophy and now we are going to retreat on that principle
based on the immediate budget concern? It's unjust and a mistake.''

The House Health and Human Services Finance Committee will take up the health
and human services budget bill, HF904, Tuesday (8:15 a.m., Room 10, State Office
Building). The House Health and Human Services Policy Committee will start
taking testimony on it Wednesday (same time and place).

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2003 Tuesday



CORRECTION: March 17, 2003 UNREGISTERED DELIVERY ADVOCATES FOR PREGNANT, ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS SAY THAT -- SOONER OR LATER -- THE STATE WILL HAVE TO PAY THE PRICE
OF NOT PROVIDING SUCH WOMEN PRENATAL CARE.
Accompanying an article Monday on a proposal to take state-funded health
benefits from undocumented immigrants, a woman in a photo was mistakenly
identified as one who would lose benefits. The woman, Consuelo Romero, would
keep benefits under the proposal because she is in the country legally.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            September 8, 2000 Friday

STATE IMPACT OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IS DISPUTED

BYLINE: Mike Hughlett, Staff writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 695 words


Illegal immigrants play a vital role in Minnesota, injecting at least $1.56
billion into the state's economy and accounting for up to 2.4 percent of the
state's total output, according to a study released Thursday by a Hispanic
advocacy and research group.

However, the district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
criticized the study for not adequately addressing the costs of illegal
immigration.

The study was published by HACER (Hispanic Advocacy and Community Empowerment
through Research), a non-profit group that focuses on Latinos in Minnesota. Its
membership, which includes several Hispanic groups, asked for a study to examine
misperceptions about illegal immigrants, said Paul Carrizales, HACER's executive
director.

Those perceptions - things like illegal immigrants are a drain on the economy -
were found to be incorrect, he said.

The study was written by James Kielkopf, a market research manager at a Twin
Cities bank and director of the Minnesota Council on Economics Education. He
notes the difficulty in determining the numbers of illegal immigrants and
calculating their economic effects. After all, neither illegal immigrants nor
their employers have incentives to cooperate with researchers.

So, HACER attempted to quantify illegal immigrants' effects primarily by
interviewing employer associations and labor unions, and applying the
information it gleaned to a computerized economic impact analysis.

Researchers chose industries they believed were significant employers of illegal
immigrants in Minnesota: hotel and lodging, landscaping and vegetable and fruit
growing and processing, roofing and residential repair, meat and poultry
processing and building services (janitorial jobs).

The study concluded that there are at least 18,000 and probably as many as
48,000 illegal immigrants working in these industries. Previous estimates of
illegal immigrants in Minnesota have ranged from about 7,000 to 30,000. That
low-end figure comes from a 1996 estimate by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Curtis Aljets, the INS district director, acknowledged the agency's 1996
estimate is antiquated, though he said the agency has no new estimate. He said
HACER's low-end estimate of 18,000 illegal immigrants seems more likely than its
estimate of 48,000.

The study's bottom line is that illegal immigrants in selected industries
account for at least $1.56 billion in value added to the state's economy - and
more likely $3.8 billion in value added - depending on whether the actual number
of illegal immigrants is closer to 18,000 or 48,000.

The study noted that illegal immigrants are particularly important because of
Minnesota's ultra-tight labor markets. "In the absence of undocumented labor,
some work would simply go undone, and economic activity would be reduced," it
said.

Aljets agreed that illegal immigrants have made a contribution to the state's
and the nation's economic boom. "Overall, the country is kind of becoming
dependent on (illegal immigrants)," he said.

The HACER study also concluded that illegal immigrants create a demand for goods
and services that in turn lead to the creation of 20,000 to 50,000 jobs in
Minnesota. And it found that illegal immigrants generate tax revenues ranging
from $417 million (assuming 18,000 workers) to $1.02 billion (assuming 48,000
workers).

However, the study didn't fully analyze the negatives associated with an influx
of illegal immigrants, INS' Aljets said.

First, it didn't fully take into account any increased government costs to
provide services to illegal immigrants. Second, he questioned the amount of tax
benefits calculated in the study, noting that he has seen numerous incidents of
fraudulent tax statements by illegal immigrants - namely, the inflation of
claimed dependents (which decreases a worker's tax contributions).

And third, he said, the study didn't deal with the potential for employer
exploitation of illegal immigrants, nor whether economic benefits would outweigh
costs in an economic downturn.
Mike Hughlett can be reached at mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5428.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 4, 2000 Wednesday CITY EDITION

HIGH COURT TO RULE ON ROADBLOCKS;
4TH AMENDMENT, PRIVACY RIGHTS GET JUSTICES' ATTENTION

BYLINE: ANNE GEARAN, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Supreme Court justices questioned whether roadblocks to catch drug dealers are
one step on the path toward the sort of random questioning by police that the
Constitution is supposed to forbid.

The court took a new look Tuesday at privacy rights vs. the interests of law
enforcement with the case of drug-search roadblocks that detain far more
innocent motorists than criminals.

The court must decide whether the roadblocks set up by Indianapolis in 1998 are
consistent with the accepted practices of border roadblocks to find illegal
immigrants or random traffic stops to get drunks off the road.

The city admits that its primary aim was to catch drug criminals. Civil
liberties advocates called the practice heavy-handed and risky, and asked the
Supreme Court to ban it.

Justice Antonin Scalia pounced on a lawyer for the city, who said the practice
is no more intrusive than the traffic stops that previously passed court muster.

"So you think the government could stop a car anywhere in the United States and
look for illegal immigrants?" Scalia asked. "Simply stop the car and say, 'Can I
see your papers, please?"'

As the crowd stirred, Scalia added: "Sorta scary."

The city's lawyer, A. Scott Chinn, replied that authorities would have to show a
reason to suspect illegal immigrants were using a particular road, but he did
not back off his argument that the drug checkpoints are a simple and effective
way to find drugs.

Several other cities have used similar checkpoints and the practice could become
common if the Supreme Court gives its blessing.

The American Civil Liberties Union, which represents two detained motorists,
argues that police do not have the right to use roadblocks to investigate
criminal drug activity without good reason to suspect one motorist or another.

The Fourth Amendment that forbids unreasonable searches or seizures generally
protects Americans from random sidewalk questioning by police, or indiscriminate
traffic stops.

The court is reviewing a federal appeals court ruling that said the Indianapolis
checkpoints probably amounted to unreasonable seizures. A Supreme Court decision
is expected by June.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 5, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

PROJECT AIMS TO GET LICENSES FOR ILLEGAL WORKERS
ADVOCATES SAY LEGAL DRIVERS WILL MAKE FOR SAFER DRIVERS

BYLINE: Todd Nelson Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 877 words


Since the state tightened requirements in 1998, undocumented immigrants have had
a hard time getting driver's licenses in Minnesota. But advocates are hoping to
persuade officials to ease those requirements, which they say would make roads
safer for everyone.

Two organizations are working with police chiefs in St. Paul and Minneapolis on
a pilot project for later this year that would allow some immigrants in both
cities to apply for licenses and follow their progress.

Advocates will present details of the Safer Streets proposal Sunday at Our Lady
of Guadalupe Church on St. Paul's West Side. The sponsors are Jewish Community
Action and Isaiah, an organization made up of 80 Twin Cities and St. Cloud
congregations. Both groups have been active in immigrant issues.

The idea of easing the way for undocumented immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses may seem a contradiction - obtaining a legal document for people who
entered the country illegally.

That is among the concerns advocates say Public Safety Commissioner Charlie
Weaver has cited. According to Isaiah documents, Weaver has said the state
should do nothing to accommodate illegal immigrants, even if they are working.

Advocates expect the study to refute another concern they said Weaver has voiced
- that immigrants who already are here illegally would be more likely to commit
crimes.

Weaver could not be reached for comment.

Undocumented immigrants in Minnesota, estimated in a study last September at
18,000 to 48,000, are here to stay and need to drive so they can work, advocates
say. The same study, published by the nonprofit Hispanic Advocacy and Community
Empowerment through Research, pointed out that undocumented workers serve a key
role in a number of industries in the state, including meat and poultry
processing, roofing and home repair and vegetable and fruit growing and
processing.

"Our position is that undocumented workers are a reality in this state, and to
have potentially tens of thousands of people driving around with no license is a
public safety issue for everyone involved," said Elizabeth Badillo-Moorman,
co-chair of the Isaiah Joint Committee on Immigration.

"Many sectors of our community have started to come together to realize it's in
everyone's best interests for the people who are in our community to have
legitimate identification," said Leonard Oppenheimer, a member of Beth Jacob
Congregation of Mendota Heights, which has worked with Our Lady of Guadalupe on
other immigration matters.

"If they are involved in an encounter with the police, the police know exactly
who they are, and the community knows they've been screened for their ability to
drive, read signs, know the rules of the road and guarantee they have insurance.
And they're not driving in fear of encounters with local law enforcement."

The problems that undocumented immigrants face in applying for licenses began in
1998, when the Department of Public Safety stopped accepting foreign birth
certificates and passports from immigrants applying for driver's licenses,
Badillo-Moorman said. Since then, in addition to providing documents proving
their identity, immigrants also have had to present proof of their legal status
to be in the United States.

Advocates are proposing to have as many as 5,000 undocumented immigrants from
St. Paul and Minneapolis apply for licenses under the old rules or by obtaining
Internal Revenue Service taxpayer identification numbers.

An outside group would track those drivers to monitor whether they got insurance
and obeyed traffic and other laws, Badillo-Moorman said. She said she hoped the
findings would be favorable enough to persuade Weaver to ease the document
requirements on his own.

Minneapolis Police Chief Robert Olson and St. Paul Police Chief William Finney
support the Safer Streets project, Badillo-Moorman said, as do a number of
businesses, state lawmakers and local elected officials.

"The chief is in favor of using a tax identification number as a means of
issuing a driver's license," said St. Paul police spokesman Michael Jordan. "If
they can pass some sort of identification by the federal government and pass the
exam to receive a license, the chief believes there no sense in not issuing them
a license."

To help get the pilot project off the ground, Olson said he told Weaver that
Minneapolis police could certify the validity of undocumented immigrants' birth
certificates and taxpayer identification numbers.

"It's certainly in the interests of Minneapolis to have drivers who have in fact
completed and passed a driver's license test," Olson said. "That makes our
streets safer."

Weaver declined an invitation to attend Sunday's meeting but said he would
assign someone to work with Olson on the issue, Badillo-Moorman said.

For more information

A public meeting about the Safer Streets proposal will take place at 4 p.m.
Sunday at Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church, 401 Concord St., St. Paul. For
information, call the organization Isaiah at (612) 333-1260.

Minnesota's rules for applying for a driver's license are posted at the
Department of Public Safety's Web site at http://www. dps.state.mn.us/dvs.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    July 17, 2001 Tuesday WISCONSIN EDITION

HISPANIC CONFERENCE ATTENDEES WELCOME IDEA OF LEGALIZING UNDOCUMENTED MEXICAN
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: DEBORAH KONG, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 495 words


The chance that millions of illegal Mexican immigrants could be granted amnesty
set off a buzz in Hispanic communities Monday, where the idea was welcomed and
many wondered if legal status could be extended to other nationalities.

"It's a great idea," said Minnie Gonzales-Flores, one of about 12,000 people at
the National Council of La Raza meeting in Milwaukee.

"These families come here to work. They don't come here for handouts. They want
the American dream."

The Bush administration is considering a plan that would grant amnesty to as
many as 3 million Mexicans living illegally in the United States, although no
decision is imminent and specifics of such a program haven't been worked out.

Many at the meeting of La Raza, an umbrella group of Hispanic community and
advocacy organizations, think extending amnesty would be fair to people who work
desperately hard -- and contribute to the U.S. economy -- but get often little
in return.

"They're already here, and I think they should get the opportunity," said Maria
Odom of Detroit, who works for a Hispanic family service agency. "A lot of them
do the work that most Americans don't want to do, for less money."

Elsewhere, the reaction was similar. Adrian Duran, 53, a San Diego house painter
who was granted amnesty in 1986, knows many people who would benefit from the
Bush proposal.

"Life here is really bad for people who don't have papers," he said. "You can't
get a good job. You can't get a driver's license. You're always hiding from the
Border Patrol."

Leticia, a 35-year-old illegal immigrant in San Diego, works nights as a janitor
to support her two children. To her, the proposal means a hope for a better
life.

"If had my papers, I could get a job in the daytime with better benefits," she
said.

But if people were excited about the possibility of an amnesty program, they
also were disappointed that there was no mention of countries other than Mexico.

La Raza estimates 8.5 million undocumented immigrants live in the United States.
About 3 million Mexican-born people live here illegally, according to Mexico's
National Population Council.

"The criteria should not be based on nationality," said Cecilia Munoz, La Raza's
vice president for policy. "The criteria should be if you're working, paying
taxes, contributing, then legalization should be extended."

In Miami, advocates for Haitians, Hondurans and Colombians each questioned why
citizens of those nations aren't part of the amnesty plans.

"Immigration law is supposed to be for everybody," said Samedi Florvil of the
Haitian Refugee Center. "I don't think it complies with the law of immigration
just to choose a nation and say 'We're going to give residency to 3 million
people by country only and leave all the other immigrants behind.' "

Grace Shirah, holding a small "Viva Mexico" flag at the La Raza meeting,
supports a legalization program but also has her doubts.

"It might just be all talk," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   July 18, 2001 Wednesday WISCONSIN EDITION

VICENTE FOX CALLS FOR UNITED STATES TO LEGALIZE IMMIGRANTS;
MEXICAN PRESIDENT ALSO WANTS ACCESS TO EDUCATION EXPANDED

BYLINE: DEBORAH KONG, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE


Mexican President Vicente Fox said Tuesday he wants legalization for
undocumented immigrants in the United States and easier access to higher
education and drivers' licenses for Mexican workers who have crossed the border.

"Our goal is to legalize migrant flows between our two countries," Fox said in a
speech at the National Council of La Raza meeting in Milwaukee.

The Mexican president said he wants "to lend greater security and orderliness to
the migrant flows between Mexico and the United States."

Fox's comments came following news that the Bush administration is weighing a
plan to grant amnesty to up to 3 million Mexicans living illegally in the United
States.

Fox outlined several points for a potential Mexican-American agreement on
immigration issues that would go further than just granting legal status to
illegal immigrants.

In addition to that, he also called for:

n Unclogging legal channels for migrants coming to the United States by
exempting Mexico and Canada from some limits on immigration.

n Giving Mexican workers expanded opportunities to obtain temporary work visas,
so they can enter the United States safely and legally.

n Allowing Mexican workers, regardless of legal status, access to drivers'
licenses and university educations.

n Fueling economic growth in Mexico, thereby reducing the number of people who
feel compelled to cross the border.

"We must work hard to create opportunities for our fellow Mexicans to stay," Fox
said.

Fox got a standing ovation as he entered a packed ballroom and spoke to an
audience of about 2,300 people, some of whom waived Mexican flags.

In the past, the Fox administration has been vague on the issue of legalizing
immigrants living and working in the United States, said Cecilia Munoz, La
Raza's vice president for policy.

"Today he stated very clearly they support it," Munoz said. "The community's
very excited about the promise of an agreement between the U.S. and Mexico that
could include a legalization program."

On legalization, Fox said that such a program would "allow immigrants who work
hard, pay taxes and abide by the law to be treated equally and to travel
freely."

Cecilia Hemmerlein of Milwaukee said she liked what she heard.

"He says act now to make everything better rather than wait for tomorrow," said
Hemmerlein, a native of Mexico City.

Fox's speech came after one by U.S. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, who
praised La Raza, an umbrella group of Hispanic community and advocacy
organizations, for defending immigrants.

The La Raza meeting was Fox's last big stop on a five-day visit to the United
States that included appearances in Detroit and Chicago. He is expected to
return for a meeting with President Bush in September.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press
Mexico's President Vicente Fox waves to the crowd Tuesday as he is introduced
at the National Council of LaRaza annual conference in Milwaukee.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 18, 2002 Thursday

TWIN CITIES: Two detained airport workers face charges

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 311 words


Two men detained in a sweep of employees working in secure areas at the
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport have been charged with immigration
violations.

The charges are the first from a May sweep of the airport by federal agents that
resulted in the detention of 21 people, U.S. Attorney Thomas Heffelfinger
announced Wednesday.

Prince Asare-Tandoh, 31, a Ghana native living in St. Paul, was charged with one
count of falsely representing himself as a citizen, one count of using a false
statement in an immigration matter and two counts of fraudulent use of a falsely
obtained Social Security number.

Asare-Tandoh allegedly used the false statement and documents to get a job with
LSG/Sky Chefs, which supplies food to airlines, and to obtain a badge that
allowed him to enter secure airport areas.

Alejandro Contreras-Valero, 22, a Mexico native living in Minneapolis, was
charged with one count of use of a false resident alien card, one count of use
of a false statement in an immigration matter, one count of possession of a
false resident alien card and one count of fraudulent use of a Social Security
number.

Contreras-Valero allegedly used the false documents to work at an airport
restaurant.

Each man faces up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count;
Contreras-Valero faces up to 15 years and a $250,000 fine for possession of
false identification.

About half of those detained in the sweep were from Mexico, authorities said.
Authorities focused on finding people working at jobs in secured areas at the
airport despite not having permission to work in the United States.

In April, federal officials said they had arrested or indicted 450 workers at 15
airports on such charges as using phony Social Security numbers.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       MAY 1, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

LET'S GET TOUGH ON EMPLOYERS WHO CHEAT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR.Syndicated Columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 789 words


Americans continue to tell pollsters that they want to "get tough" on illegal
immigrants.

A Roper Poll released recently by an anti-illegal immigration outfit calling
itself the United to Secure America Coalition found that 85 percent of Americans
consider undocumented foreigners to be a serious problem -- so serious that 70
percent support mandatory prison sentences for them.

Get real. When it comes to illegal immigrants, the people who deserve to go to
prison are those American employers who hire them and then try to swindle them
out of money they have rightfully earned.

There were plenty of candidates in a recent gut-wrenching article from the
Washington Post. The story focused on the claims of hundreds of immigrant day
laborers in Montgomery County, Md. -- most from Mexico and the rest of Latin
America -- who insist that employers owe them tens of thousands of dollars in
unpaid wages.

Employers break promises. They give phony names. They bounce checks. They run
off. One guy allegedly told workers to follow him home for payment, then ditched
them on the freeway.

And, these employers do it all without fear. The assumption is that undocumented
workers won't go to the police. They're the perfect victims.

The workers in Montgomery County, many of whom were hired on nothing more than a
handshake or an oral agreement, did everything from construction work to
cleaning homes. They held up their end. They made only one mistake -- trusting
folks intent on preying on the weak.

A social services agency in Silver Spring, Md., that specializes in suing
employers to recover lost wages estimates that companies and individuals in the
nation's capital owe more than a half-million dollars in unpaid salaries and
damages.

It happens all across the country. I don't care what the polls say about getting
tough on illegal immigrants. Too many Americans can't get enough of them.

In California, my father -- before he retired last month -- enforced labor laws
for the state labor commissioner. He tells of walking into a restaurant near Los
Angeles and finding an undocumented Chinese woman washing dishes. When he asked
how much she got paid per hour, she explained that she didn't get paid -- that
the owner, who also happened to be Chinese, told her she was "in training." How
long had she been in training, he asked. The answer was shocking: "Six months."

Stories of employers scamming immigrants are old news to Salvador Reza, the
director of a Phoenix-based center where as many as 200 day laborers gather
daily and wait to be approached by potential employers.

"It happens all the time," Reza said.

Sometimes the threat of filing a police report -- for "theft of services" --
keeps employers honest. That, and the fact that center personnel train workers
to get employers' names and license plate numbers. When transactions originate
at the center, Reza said, most wage disputes are resolved within a few days.

If you listen to enough of these stories, you begin to wonder if Americans have
something against hiring Americans. Could be. After all, native-born workers
know their rights, and they expect to get paid for the work they do.

Illegal immigrants probably expect that too. And yet there remain those
unscrupulous employers who seem to think that one of the perks to hiring
undocumented workers is that you don't have to pay them.

This isn't the American way.

One avenue for restoring decency is for other states to follow the example of
California. There, the Legislature recently passed a law requiring that
employers pay their employees for work done even if the employee does not have a
legal right to be in the United States. The thinking was that employers
shouldn't be allowed to have it both ways -- hire illegal immigrants and then
use the fact that they're illegal to dodge their responsibility to pay them.

And don't stop at the states. Congress should pass a similar law at the federal
level. And once on the books, the U.S. Department of Labor should vigorously
enforce it.

The wonder is that anyone could object. Yet some defenders of the status quo
claim that worker protection laws somehow legitimize illegal immigration.

Nonsense. The truth is that, the absence of such laws only serves to legitimize
something much more sinister.

Montgomery County State's Attorney Douglas F. Gansler got it right in describing
what is going on in Maryland.

"It's a sad situation," Gansler told the Post. "It amounts to slave labor."

Slave labor. It goes to show. In America, there's a constituency for everything.

Navarrette (e-mail: rnavarrette@dallasnews.com) is a columnist for the Dallas
Morning News. Distributed by the Washington Post Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 15, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

18 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DIE AFTER BEING LEFT IN TRAILER

BYLINE: T.A. BADGER, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 434 words


VICTORIA, Texas -- Seventeen people were found dead Wednesday when authorities
opened a sweltering, airless trailer that had been abandoned at a south Texas
truck stop with more than 100 illegal immigrants locked inside.

An 18th victim died later at a hospital in one of the deadliest smuggling
attempts on record in the United States.

The men, women and children from Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras
were apparently so desperate for air that they tried to claw through insulation
on the back door.

At least one of those trapped inside placed a desperate call to police late
Tuesday, saying people were suffocating and pleading with a dispatcher to "help
me."

When sheriff's deputies opened the trailer about 2 a.m., "a flood of human
beings" spilled out, U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby said. Many ran off, but others
were too weak to go far.

Thirteen bodies were found inside and four more on the ground just outside. A
boy, 5 or 6 years old, was among the dead.

Authorities said one of three suspected smugglers was arrested Wednesday in the
Houston area, about 115 miles northeast of Victoria. The man, Tyrone Williams of
Schenectady, N.Y., was not immediately charged.

The trailer had New York plates and was registered in Williams' name, Shelby
said. Authorities were looking for two more suspects.

Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary for border and transportation security at the
Department of Homeland Security, said in Washington that the agency would make
investigation of the incident its highest priority.

"These ruthless criminals, who put profit before people, will be tracked down,
apprehended and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law," he said.

The smugglers apparently unhitched the trailer at the truck stop near Victoria,
about 175 miles from the Mexican border, and drove off.

The 911 call to police in Kingsville, 100 miles south of Victoria, came in just
before midnight Tuesday from a Spanish speaker on a cellular phone with lots of
yelling and background noise.

Police Chief Sam Granato said the call was cut off and the number couldn't be
traced. The trailer had arrived at the truck stop about an hour before
authorities were notified.

It was not clear how long the people had been inside, where the truck came from
or where it was going. Those who died suffered from asphyxiation and heat
stroke, health officials said, in the deadliest incident of its kind since 1987.

The National Weather Service said it was 74 degrees with 93 percent humidity at
2 a.m. The high Tuesday was 91.

The New York Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ERIC GAY, ASSOCIATED PRESS

A law enforcement officer, standing beside a covered body, looks into the back
of a truck trailer containing additional bodies while investigating the site
where 17 people were found dead early Wednesday near Victoria, Texas.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        May 16, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

TRUCKER CHARGED IN DEATHS OF ALIENS

BYLINE: JUAN A. LOZANO, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 359 words


HOUSTON -- The driver of the tractor-trailer that became a sweltering deathtrap
for 18 people was charged Thursday with transporting and harboring illegal
aliens.

Authorities, meanwhile, searched for three more suspects in one of the deadliest
smuggling schemes in U.S. history.

The driver, Tyrone Williams of Schenectady, N.Y., admitted that two men paid him
$2,500 to take 16 illegal immigrants from the Mexican border into south Texas,
according to court papers.

He claimed he did not watch as the immigrants were loaded Tuesday night into his
trailer, which was actually packed with 100 men, women and children from Mexico
and Central America.

Seventeen died inside and another at a hospital in Victoria, where the trailer
was found abandoned early Wednesday.

Williams, 32, claimed he threw open the doors after finding the dead and dying
immigrants inside, then drove off. Authorities, however, said the doors had to
be opened by sheriff's deputies.

Eduardo Ibarrola, Mexico's consul general in Houston who has interviewed some of
the survivors, said the immigrants crossed the border in different ways before
gathering in Harlingen, at the southern tip of Texas, for a 300-mile ride up
U.S. 77 to Houston.

He said they were loaded into the trailer around 10 p.m. Tuesday and were
surprised at how crowded it was. He said there was no water, no light and not
nearly enough air.

"They realized (too late) that there were so many people, that there was no air
and that they could not get out," he said.

The immigrants were found about four hours later.

Williams was arrested in the Houston area Wednesday, hours after the discovery
in his trailer 115 miles away.

He did not enter a plea to the federal charges and remains jailed pending a bond
hearing. He did not yet have an attorney.

Authorities said they were still looking for "Joe," "Abel" and "Fatima" in the
smuggling scheme. All four suspects could get life in prison, perhaps even the
death penalty, federal prosecutor Don DeGabrielle said.

Officials said most of the immigrants were from Mexico; others were from El
Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: DAVID J. PHILLIP, ASSOCIATED PRESS

Tyrone Williams, top, of Schenectady, N.Y., is escorted from federal court
Thursday in Houston.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        May 19, 2003 Monday CITY EDITION

TRAGIC DEATHS DON'T DETER HUMAN-CARGO SMUGGLERS
TRAFFICKERS PROFIT FROM DESPERATELY POOR MEXICANS

BYLINE: DAVID SEDENODallas Morning News

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1303 words


As 100 undocumented immigrants bolted from the southern Texas brush and
hurriedly climbed into the back of a white enclosed trailer, little Marco
Antonio Villasenor, a black-haired, brown-eyed 5-year-old, took his place among
the pack.

He had traveled to the border with his father, 31-year-old Jose Antonio
Villasenor, a Mexico City resident. It was Tuesday night and they were on their
way to Houston with dozens of undocumented immigrants.

When rescue workers found Marco Antonio in the unventilated trailer south of
Victoria, Texas, four hours later, the little boy was shirtless and limp in the
arms of a shirtless man. He was wearing brown pants, and his white socks and
black shoes, like his hair, were full of sweat. Marco Antonio, 3 1/2 feet tall
and weighing only 43 pounds, was bruised from the weight of people crowding
around and over him.

He was dead.

Marco Antonio's death and that of his father and 17 others in the unventilated
trailer is a reminder of the risk undocumented immigrants take for jobs and
money. So why does it keep happening?

"These poor people probably knew there was some danger going into the back of
that trailer, but like me, I'm sure they never thought it would be this bad,"
said Guillermo Gallo, 22, of Mexico, who suffered third-degree burns from the
heat of a trailer door while trapped inside during a similar trailer trip to
northern Texas last July.

"The thought of that little boy dead with his father is the greatest tragedy."

Officials acknowledge that smugglers' low overhead, huge profits and
historically light prison sentences if caught help drive a business that is
estimated to be at least a $5 billion a year industry. Increased traffic from
the border and chronic staffing shortages prohibit immigration officials from
inspecting each tractor-trailer at checkpoints.

Despite increasing numbers of immigration agents along the southern border
during the past decade, immigration experts believe that 3 million cross
illegally from Mexico each year.

So despite the flurry of re-ports of recent deaths in tractor-trailers, many of
them loaded with human cargo get to their destinations without problems.

"Every time I look out my window onto Central Expressway and see a
tractor-trailer rig, it crosses my mind and I think, 'What's in the back of that
truck?' " said Becky Gregory of Plano, Texas, the deputy U.S. attorney for the
Eastern District of Texas, which is prosecuting a high-profile smuggling case.

"The overwhelming majority of people are following the rules but I'm sure
there's a small percentage, but a potentially lethal percentage, who are driving
trucks and bringing aliens in them," she said.

Even as law enforcement investigators interview the 54 survivors of the Victoria
tragedy and funeral homes make arrangements to return the bodies of the victims
home to Mexico and Central America, more undocumented immigrants are making
their way into the United States.

A day after the bodies were discovered in Victoria, Border Patrol agents in El
Paso, Texas, intercepted a railroad container with 17 undocumented immigrants
inside. On Friday, about four miles east of Victoria, another tractor-trailer
carrying 18 immigrants was discovered. All the immigrants were safe and are in
the process of being deported.

This summer, as in years past, the Mexican government will tell people about the
dangers of crossing into the United States, from warnings about bandits and bad
canal water on the Mexican side, to vigilantes and unscrupulous smugglers on the
U.S. side.

But the thought of being able to earn in one hour what many Mexicans could make
in a day will push them to walk through the desert Southwest or climb into
railroad containers or into the backs of tractor-trailer rigs that they have
been told are air-conditioned, but, in all likelihood, are not.

"When you combine greed with a total disregard for human life and the desperate
circumstances of these immigrants, it's a formula for disaster," said Jaime
Pena, an assistant U.S. attorney in Sherman, Texas.

From San Ysidro, Calif., to Brownsville, Texas, and even into the Mexican
interior, smugglers numbering in the thousands have created an intricate
business and transportation infrastructure that is as complex as it is fluid.

They use disposable cellular telephones and telephone calling cards. They form
alliances to maximize profits and use the terrain to their advantages. They
employ recruiters, guides, drivers and enforcers. They use multiple safe houses
and use established transportation networks -- rail or various forms of ground
transportation -- and find the best means to get their cargos past Border Patrol
checkpoints.

Smuggler's fees have jumped as much as 300 percent in the past decade because of
tougher border enforcement, according to Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center
for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California at San
Diego.

Many smugglers take those fees in advance, so they have nothing to lose if
people are arrested or die in the desert or in sealed containers.

Those elements, combined with increased truck traffic from the border and
challenges faced by the Border Patrol, also allow the cycle to continue.

"With the increase in trucking throughout the border, it just compounds the
problem because we can't check every truck that comes through the checkpoint,"
said David Ham, assistant chief of the El Paso Border Patrol. "Until either the
lure of jobs in the United States ceases or the economy of Mexico gets better,
it's always going to happen. Anna, Texas, was a prelude to what could really
happen."

Last year, federal officials put a major dent in a sophisticated smuggling ring
based in El Paso that Ham had been investigating for six years.

Two truck drivers in El Paso started out with more than 40 people jammed into an
unventilated trailer along with tons of medical supplies. By the time the trip
ended 12 hours and 650 miles later in the Collin County town of Anna, two men
were dead and a dozen others had to be hospitalized because of heat exhaustion.

In the southern Texas case, like in the El Paso case, a smuggling ring also
recruited the truck driver --Tyrone Williams, 32, of Schenectady, N.Y. --.

Williams, a legal U.S. resident from Jamaica, said that on Tuesday he had met
two men -- Joe and Abel -- in Harlingen, Texas, who had promised $2,500 to take
the group of immigrants in his empty refrigerated produce trailer to Robstown,
Texas. He would be paid a bonus of $2,500 for taking the group to Houston.

He agreed, and he and a woman named Fatima loaded up about 100 undocumented
immigrants who had been waiting alongside the brush, off of U.S. 77 north of
Harlingen. The refrigeration unit was only in use for a short time thereafter.

During the next four hours, heat and carbon monoxide began filling the
container, pushing the oxygen toward the trailer bed. Some of the immigrants
tried to tear through the insulated trailer walls and one man made a desperate
call from his cell phone looking for help. Others had tried to get Marco Antonio
near an opening in the trailer walls to get him fresh air.

When Williams pulled his rig to a halt near a truck stop south of Victoria and
opened the trailer doors, he heard screams of help for the child. He got water
for the group, but after seeing bodies, he quickly disconnected the tractor rig
from the trailer and drove away. Between 30 and 50 undocumented immigrants also
are said to have fled and remain unaccounted for.

Williams was arrested in Houston about 6 a.m. Wednesday and faces federal
charges of transportation of undocumented immigrants. Prosecutors could pursue
the federal death penalty against Williams and others who may be implicated in
the case.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Gay, Associated Press

An unidentified body is transferred to a mobile morgue Wednesday as officials
investigate the site where 17 people were found dead in and around a stifling
trailer at a truck stop near Victoria, Texas. Two other illegal immigrants died
late.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 14, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

FBI CHIEF PROMISES CHANGES
HANDLING OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WAS CRITICIZED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 475 words


WASHINGTON -- Faced with a highly critical report, FBI Director Robert Mueller
on Friday promised changes in the handling of illegal immigrants suspected of
having links to terrorism.

In a speech to an American Civil Liberties Union conference, Mueller said the
report last week from the Justice Department's inspector general "did a very
good job of pointing out areas where we can do better."

The inspector general, Glenn Fine, criticized the lengthy detentions -- some up
to eight months -- of many of the 762 aliens held after the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks and the FBI's assumption of sole authority to decide whether individuals
remained a threat.

Conditions of custody were often unduly harsh and none of the detainees were
convicted of terrorism-related offenses, with such charges brought only against
Zacarias Moussaoui.

Among the changes, Mueller said, are better criteria for deciding when an
illegal alien is a suspect of special concern, improved communication between
agencies to accelerate the disposition of the cases and more personnel devoted
to the investigations.

In addition, federal immigration officials will have greater authority over
custody of these illegal aliens, with the FBI taking over only if the case is
made in writing that release of an individual poses a threat or would disrupt an
investigation.

Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff, head of the Justice Department's
criminal division, said in a recent letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee
that the FBI and Homeland Security Department -- which now handles most
immigration matters -- are working to implement these changes.

"These enhancements would further reduce the potential for impinging on civil
liberties," Chertoff said in the June 4 letter, which he said stated his
personal views and not official government policy. Chertoff leaves his post
Monday to become a judge on the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

The fate of Sept. 11 detainees was only one of the issues that has drawn
criticism from the ACLU in the war against terrorism. The ACLU has repeatedly
fought against government secrecy, questioned the increased surveillance powers
under the USA Patriot Act and raised concern that the FBI singles out Muslims
for investigation after the attacks.

ACLU Executive Director Anthony Romero praised Mueller for his willingness to
appear before such a critical crowd, albeit one that received him warmly. But
Romero added that "the areas of disagreement outnumber the areas of agreement"
between his group and the FBI.

Mueller said the FBI had doubled its dedication to upholding citizens' rights
under the Constitution, even as it retools to make counterterrorism its top
priority. Some secrecy is necessary in combating terror, he added, and he said
many concerns about infringement of rights have been overblown.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    November 5, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

GRAND JURY PROBE TARGETS WAL-MART
MEGA-RETAILER WARNED THAT ITS HIRING OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IS UNDER
INVESTIGATION

BYLINE: CHUCK BARTELS, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 376 words


LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- Federal prosecutors have warned Wal-Mart Stores Inc. that
the world's largest retailer is the target of a grand jury probe into the hiring
of illegal immigrants, the company disclosed Tuesday.

Wal-Mart said it was not surprised to receive a so-called target letter after an
investigation of floor-cleaning companies contracted by Wal-Mart led to mass
arrests late last month.

"The company is the target," company spokeswoman Mona Williams said. "No company
employee has received an individual target letter at this time."

On Oct. 23, federal agents swept through 60 stores in 21 states, arresting about
250 allegedly illegal workers as they walked off the overnight shift. Most
worked for companies contracted by Wal-Mart, although 10 were Wal-Mart employees
hired as the company moved to bring its floor-cleaning operations in-house.

Wal-Mart said it screens employees to try to ensure they can legally work and
that it requires contractors to use legal workers. At the time of the arrests,
however, federal law enforcement officials, speaking on condition of anonymity,
said there was evidence that Wal-Mart executives knew of the immigration
violations.

The grand jury will hear details starting in mid-December, Williams said. She
said Wal-Mart felt this gave the company time "to provide the U.S. Attorney's
Office information we feel supports our position."

Assistant U.S. Attorney Wayne Samuelson in Williamsport, Pa., where the case is
being handled, would not discuss specifics.

"I'm not going to comment on anything that Wal-Mart is saying," he said. "It's
an ongoing investigation."

The raids last month included a visit by investigators to the company's
Bentonville headquarters, which they left with boxes of files from one
executive's office, the company said.

Since the probe was launched, Wal-Mart has pledged its cooperation and
instructed store managers to preserve any relevant records.

After the sweep, the workers were taken to local immigration offices. Some were
released, but those with criminal records were detained, authorities said. The
workers came from 18 nations.

Wal-Mart said it would check all of its 1 million-plus domestic workers to
ensure they were legally employed.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 17, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFING

SECTION: MAIN; NATION & WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 948 words


Court considers migrant inmates

WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court agreed Friday to decide if authorities can
indefinitely imprison hundreds of Cuban immigrant criminals and other illegal
foreigners with no country to accept them. About 2,220 such people are in jail
now, in limbo because the U.S. government says they're too dangerous to be freed
but they have no homeland. The Bush administration wants the Supreme Court to
say that longtime detentions are acceptable, especially in light of post-Sept.
11, 2001, concerns about protecting America's borders. Justices ruled in 2001
that it would be unconstitutional to indefinitely detain legal immigrants who
have already served time for crimes. In this case, justices will decide if
people in America illegally have the same rights. The case involves a Cuban man,
45, sent to a Florida prison for armed robbery and other crimes. He finished his
sentence in 2001, but has been held since because Cuba refuses to take him back.

For more on this story, go to www.twincities.com/news and click on Nation/World.

Court won't weigh Texas' new districts

AUSTIN, Texas -- The U.S. Supreme Court refused Friday to block Texas from
holding congressional elections next fall under a hard-fought new map that could
cost the Democrats as many as six House seats. The map was pushed through the
Legislature by the Republicans last year after months of partisan fighting that
included two out-of-state walkouts by the Democrats. The justices rejected an
emergency appeal that sought to stop the state from using the new boundaries in
next fall's elections. But the court still must decide whether to hear claims
that the new map dilutes minority voting strength. The Legislature approved the
districts during a special session in the fall.

Florida's Harris won't run for Senate

SARASOTA, Fla. -- Rep. Katherine Harris, the Florida election official vilified
by Democrats for her role in the 2000 presidential recount, announced Friday she
will not run for the Senate. The White House had wanted her to stay out of the
race for fear her candidacy would produce big turnout among angry Democrats and
hurt President Bush's chances of carrying Florida and its crucial 27 electoral
votes this year. Harris said she has unfinished business in the House and will
seek re-election this year. She said no one tried to prevent her from running
for the Senate.

Pope meets with Israeli rabbis

VATICAN CITY -- Pursuing his goal of reconciliation among religions, Pope John
Paul II received Israel's chief rabbis Friday and assured them of his commitment
to Catholic-Jewish cooperation. The 35-minute Vatican audience, a first for
Israel's top rabbis, was arranged in connection with a concert tonight to
promote solidarity among Christians, Jews and Muslims and came just a few days
before a major Catholic-Jewish meeting in New York. John Paul told the rabbis
"we must spare no effort" to work for peace. For their part, rabbis Yona Metzger
and Shlomo Amar said they asked the pope to keep speaking out against
anti-Semitism and to dedicate a day on the Catholic calendar to study and
reflect on the Jewish faith.

Two in terrorism network plead guilty

WASHINGTON -- Two members of a Virginia-based Islamic terrorism network pleaded
guilty to weapons and explosives charges Friday and promised to help the
government, Attorney General John Ashcroft said. Randall Royer, 30, and Ibrahim
al-Hamdi, 26, who entered their pleas in Alexandria, Va., had ties to the
Lashkar-e-Taiba group seeking to drive India out of Kashmir. Federal officials
said they also sought to help al-Qaida and the Taliban. Royer faces a mandatory
minimum sentence of 20 years in prison, al-Hamdi 15 years. Royer also has
admitted helping people gain access to a terrorist training camp in Pakistan.

Taiwan waters down anti-China vote

TAIPEI, Taiwan -- Pressured by the United States, Taiwan's leader on Friday
significantly watered down the language of a March 20 China-bashing referendum
demanding that the Communist country remove 500 missiles pointed at Taiwan.
President Chen Shui-bian now says the vote will focus on whether Taiwan should
step up its anti-missile defenses if the threat continues. Chen also said voters
would decide whether the Taiwanese government should begin negotiating with
China "to build consensus and for the welfare of the peoples on both sides."
China has not commented on the new language.

Probe finds no proof of mayor's party

DETROIT -- State police on Friday said they found no evidence to support a
widely discredited accusation that the city's mayor covered up an alleged
assault during a wild party at his official residence. Authorities interviewed
55 people and analyzed cell phone records before determining that there was
never a party or a coverup. The state attorney general's office in June came to
the same conclusion. The accusation had been made by former police chief Gary
Brown, who was fired by Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick. Kilpatrick has said he fired
Brown for violating his trust, but did not elaborate.

Most families apply to Sept. 11 fund

WASHINGTON -- Ninety-eight percent of the families of those killed in the Sept.
11, 2001, terror attacks have applied for federal compensation, the special
master of a government fund said Friday. Kenneth Feinberg said 2,925 families
have applied. The official death count was 2,976. Families of 30 victims have
taken no action, and the remainder are litigating their claims in federal court,
Feinberg said. The deadline for filing claims expired last month. All claims
must be paid by June 15. Feinberg estimated that $5 billion eventually would be
paid from the fund.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       March 26, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FUEL A THRILLER WITH EXPLOSIVE ISSUES

BYLINE: ROB LOWMANLos Angeles Daily News

SECTION: EXPRESS; NEW ON VIDEO; Pg. E9

LENGTH: 1027 words


DIRTY PRETTY THINGS

In "Dirty Pretty Things" director Stephen Frears has fashioned a terse, tense
drama that illuminates the plight of illegal immigrants in London. The script
was written by Steven Knight, who created the original British version of "Who
Wants to Be a Millionaire." For Senay (Audrey Tautou), a Turkish emigre, and
Okwe (Chiwetel Ejiofor), a Nigerian refugee, it's more like Who Wants to
Survive, with dignity and body parts intact.

As is the case with many illegals -- including those in this country -- people
take advantage of them because they work cheap. People also use them in other
ways -- including sexually -- because illegals have few rights and are afraid of
deportation.

"Dirty Pretty Things," while dealing with those issues, takes on added thriller
elements as it looks into the illegal organ donor trade: Give up a body part
such as a kidney for the right papers that keep you legally in the country.

Frears ("The Grifters," "High Fidelity") never gets sentimental about his
subjects, looking at things with a cool eye, helped by the striking noirish
images from famed cinematographer Chris Menges. (Miramax, $29.99; includes
commentary by Frears and a behind-the-scenes special.)

SHATTERED GLASS

'Shattered Glass" tells the true story of Stephen Glass, a young writer and
editor at the New Republic who in 1998 was found to have made up whole or parts
of more than two dozen articles published in that prestigious magazine.

Written and directed by Billy Ray, "Shattered Glass" is an unsettling tale for
those of us who are journalists, but Ray fashions an interesting,
straightforward narrative that reflects on the business climate in America,
where getting ahead by any means is paramount and ethics are slippery. That
Glass (played by Hayden Christensen) could continually fool so many people may
not be that surprising. He was -- as portrayed in the film -- charming and his
stories were entertaining, so he didn't receive as much scrutiny as he should
have.

But things are not necessarily different elsewhere. It was reported that during
a Wall Street fact-finding trip to Enron during that company's heyday, the firm
had workers from one floor in the corporate building go to a previously
unoccupied floor, where computers and phones were set up, though not
operational. There, the workers were told to pretend to be busy for the
visitors. Strangely, no one brought this up until the company began to collapse.
As with Glass, there were sneaking suspicions, but it took far too long for the
truth to come out. (Lions Gate, $26.99; includes commentary by Ray and former
New Republic editor Chuck Lane and a "60 Minutes" interview with the real
Stephen Glass.)

THE SINGING DETECTIVE

Last year's film version of "The Singing Detective" starring Robert Downey Jr.
ultimately pales in relationship to the Dennis Potter's 1986 miniseries with
Michael Gambon.

Interestingly, Potter wrote this latest adaptation of "The Singing Detective"
before he died in 1994, moving the action for the mystery story from 1940s
England to 1950s Los Angeles. Directed by Keith Gordon, the newer version does
offer the pleasure of Downey, who shows again that he's a superb actor as he
plays Dan Dark, a pulp novelist suffering from a terrible skin condition.

Lesion-covered and in pain, he is a prisoner in his own body, hospitalized and
able only to verbally strike out at the medical staff or retreat into the
noirish world in his head. There he plays the tough-guy hero of his own novels,
which are laced with figures from his life, who also appear as memories. His
wife (Robin Wright Penn) becomes a seductress, his mother (Carla Gugino) a
wanton woman and a nurse (Katie Holmes) a teen fantasy.

This "Detective," unlike the miniseries, is a bit too prettily tied up because
of how it has been pared down. But there are enough intriguing moments -- and
Downey -- to get you through it. (Paramount, $29.99; includes commentary by
Gordon.)

GOTHIKA

Robert Downey Jr. plays a rather odd therapist in "Gothika," a creepy chiller
starring Halle Berry as Miranda Grey, a psychiatrist at a Connecticut
institution for the criminally insane.

One of Miranda's patients is Chloe (Penelope Cruz), a distraught woman who is
being sexually assaulted by the devil while in her locked cell. Miranda believes
she is delusional. But this being one of those movies, she soon finds herself an
inmate after the murder of her husband, and now she is the one insisting that
she's not deluded but possessed.

Directed by Mathieu Kassovitz, "Gothika," with its rain, dark lighting and eerie
music, is in a perpetual state of foreboding. When the payoffs come, they will
seem like variations on dozens of other films. But Kassovitz keeps it moving
despite its lack of logic and originality, and Berry makes a determined heroine
while Downey again proves his immeasurable skills as an actor. (Warner, $27.95;
includes commentary by Kassovitz and director of photography Matthew Libatique,
plus a Limp Bizkit music video)

THE RUNDOWN

The turn-off-your-brain formulaic action picture of the week is "The Rundown"
with The Rock (aka Dwayne Douglas Johnson), who plays Beck, a man of muscle sent
to South America to retrieve the son of his underworld employer.

Of course, Beck isn't all bad; he wants to quit the strong-arm lifestyle and
open a restaurant. In the Brazilian jungle, he tracks down his boss' son Travis
(Seann William Scott), who has been looking for a valuable gold relic, and finds
himself caught in a struggle between Hatcher (Christopher Walken), the American
who runs an open-pit gold mine and keeps the natives under his thumb, and the
local rebel group. Toss in (surprise!) a beautiful, secretive woman (Rosario
Dawson).

Early on, now-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger makes a cameo, leaving a disco as The
Rock enters. As they pass, Schwarzenegger offers the advice of "have fun." "The
Rundown" offers a bit of that, if you're into action and in an undemanding mood.
(Universal, $26.98; includes deleted scenes and featurettes on stunts and fight
scenes, visual effects and the jungle location)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 13, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFING

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 1089 words


MEXICO'S FIRST LADY WON'T RUN FOR PRESIDENT

MEXICO CITY -- First lady Marta Sahagun on Monday ruled out plans to seek the
presidency on her own in 2006, ending speculation that at times has overshadowed
the actions of her husband, Vicente Fox. "I will not be a candidate for
presidency of the republic," Sahagun said in an announcement. "We will go home
together" when Fox's term ends on Dec. 1, 2006, she said. Sahagun has been
compared to a conservative Hillary Clinton, both for her ambitions and for the
criticism focused upon her. Critics complained she was unfairly using her
position as first lady as a presidential springboard -- a sensitive issue in
Mexico, which is trying to escape from a legacy of presidents choosing their
successors and where the constitution limits them to one term.

For more details, see www.twincities.com/news and click on Nation/World.

Illegal immigrants returned to Mexico

PHOENIX -- More than 130 illegal immigrants were flown for free to the Mexican
interior Monday on the first flight of a U.S. government plan aimed at curbing
repeat immigration attempts. The flights are a voluntary alternative for illegal
immigrants to the usual practice of being driven back only to the border, far
from their hometowns. The first commercial airliner carrying immigrants in the
test program left Tucson and landed in Mexico City in the evening. Buses were
waiting to take the immigrants to local bus terminals for the trip back to their
home towns. The Homeland Security Department's Interior Repatriation Program
will include about two flights a day to Mexico City and Guadalajara. The
department is funding the program, which is estimated to cost $12 million to $13
million at two flights per day, each carrying up to 150 illegal immigrants. A
Border Patrol spokesman said about 30 of Monday's passengers were considered at
high risk of dying in the desert if they attempted a second crossing.

Warm, dry weather feeds Alaska fires

ANCHORAGE, Alaska -- A wildfire near a village of about 60 almost tripled in
size Monday as warm, dry weather gave new life to it and dozens of other fires
in Alaska's interior. Conditions were drying out, heating up and taking a turn
for the worse after several days of rain, officials said. The 17,000-acre fire
was burning about a mile from the village of Bettles. Fire officials said the
blaze was a top priority Monday -- one of the 71 fires already burning
statewide.

French police try to unravel attack clues

PARIS -- Doubts surfaced Monday in news reports about a young mother's claim she
had been attacked and robbed on a suburban train by young men who then scrawled
swastikas on her stomach. Nevertheless, police patrolled suburban trains and
studied video from surveillance cameras, trying to track down the six men who
allegedly attacked the 23-year-old woman. She told police she was robbed by a
knife-wielding gang while riding a train with her infant Friday. She claimed to
have been mistreated after being mistaken for a Jew. Surveillance cameras at the
station where the culprits reportedly left the train showed no young men running
from the scene, and no witnesses have come forward. Both France-Info radio and
the television station LCI reported that the young woman had filed several
complaints about violence and aggressive treatment in the past.

Denmark upholds pastor's suspension

COPENHAGEN, Denmark -- The Danish government Monday upheld the clerical
suspension of a Lutheran minister who proclaimed last year that there was no God
or afterlife, and he now could be fired or fined for declaring his beliefs in
the pulpit. The government said it backed the June 10 decision by Helsingoer
Bishop Lise-Lotte Rebel who suspended the Rev. Thorkild Grosboell, pastor of
Taarbaek, preaching his unconventional beliefs at his church. Grosboell faces a
disciplinary labor court hearing with two theologians and a presiding judge, who
will decide his punishment -- dismissal or a fine.

Orangemen parade; Catholics fight cops

BELFAST, Northern Ireland -- Catholic hard-liners attacked British soldiers and
police Monday after daylong parades across Northern Ireland by the Orange Order,
the province's major Protestant brotherhood. No serious injuries were reported.
In north Belfast, rows of troops and riot police prevented direct clashes
between passing Orangemen and the Catholic residents of Ardoyne, a power base
for the outlawed Irish Republican Army. But as soon as the Protestants had
paraded past, Catholic men and teenage boys surrounded several parked army jeeps
with soldiers inside, smashed the windows, and tried to tip them over. Riot
police armed with shields, clubs and flame- retardant suits intervened.

37 Africans on ship allowed into Italy

AGRIGENTO, Sicily -- Thirty-seven Africans stranded offshore on an aid agency
ship for weeks were allowed to dock Monday. But authorities later arrested the
captain and an aid official for allegedly aiding illegal immigration. They also
indicated that some immigrants lied about coming from Sudan's war-torn Darfur
region. The German aid group Cap Anamur said its ship rescued the 37 men from a
broken down vessel in the Mediterranean on June 20. The aid agency said some of
the men identified themselves as refugees from the Darfur region. For several
days, Italy blocked the ship from docking, while Germany, Malta and aid groups
debated who should take the immigrants. On Monday, Italy let the Cap Anamur ship
dock at Porto Empedocle on the southern coast of Sicily. A statement from police
read: "From the first checks it has actually emerged that they are not of
Sudanese nationality, but on the contrary appear to be Ghanaian and Nigerian."

Kashmir violence leaves 9 dead

SRINAGAR, India -- Guerrillas on Monday chopped off the ears, nose and tongue of
a teenage girl they suspected of helping police, while at least nine other
people were killed in separate violence in Indian-controlled Kashmir. The girl
was held captive for eight days before the rebels abandoned her in a field
outside the village of Manoh, 190 miles southwest of Srinagar, the capital of
India's Jammu-Kashmir state, police said. Also, five schoolchildren were wounded
in crossfire between Indian soldiers and suspected rebels who attacked an army
convoy on a highway outside Srinagar, Army spokesman Lt. Col. Mukhtiar Singh
said. A powerful blast Monday night at Nishat, a neighborhood near Kashmir's
famous Nishat Garden, killed one man and wounded eight others, police said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Marta Sahagun

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      July 29, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ACCUSED OF CHILD SEX ABUSE
10 MEXICAN MEN FACE CHARGES, DEPORTATION

BYLINE: PHILLIP PINA, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 430 words


Working with Austin, Minn., police, federal investigators have rounded up 10
illegal immigrants who likely face deportation after being accused of having sex
with a 14-year-old girl.

The bust, part of a yearlong, nationwide effort targeting criminal sexual
predators, included the arrests of the 10 Mexican nationals as well as a
relative of the girl who helped arrange the meetings. They were all being held
in the Mower County jail Wednesday facing criminal sexual conduct and
prostitution charges.

"This whole incident is a tragedy," said Mark Cangemi, special agent-in-charge
of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Bloomington. "We're
glad we could help put an end to the child's suffering."

The Department of Homeland Security and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
started Operation Predator in July 2003 to target child sex abusers and have
arrested more than 3,300 illegal immigrants nationwide. About 90 of those were
arrested by agents from the Bloomington office -- most in Minnesota, though the
office also covers North Dakota and South Dakota, said Tim Counts, spokesman for
the Bloomington office.

The national arrests have included child predators, participants in child sex
tours overseas, those distributing Internet child pornography across virtual
borders and people trafficking in children.

In the Austin cases, investigators were tipped off that the girl was having sex
in return for cellular telephone minutes and money. Authorities allege a
relative, 23-year-old Rhonda Garcia-Lopez, arranged the encounters.

Austin investigators believe there were as many as 40 incidents over a
three-month period, said Police Chief Paul Philipp. Philipp would not say how
the girl and Garcia-Lopez are related. Garcia-Lopez faces 10 counts of
prostitution.

Austin police asked federal immigration investigators to help in the arrests and
to provide translation skills as well as to help determine legal residency
statuses and to check for fraudulent documents. The 10 men arrested are Mexican
nationals with multiple forms of identification. They will face charges in
Austin before being turned over to immigration authorities, Philipp said.

Those arrested are Felix Sandoval-Barrios, 31; Ricardo Sandoval-Maldonado, 32;
Dionicio Gutierrez-Franco, 23; Miguel Angel Gutierrez-Franco, 19; Jamie
Mendoza-Reyes, 29; Jose Luis Nieto-Herrera, 25; Reymundo Ortiz-Garcia, 21;
Antonio Rojas-Ortiz, 27; Catalino Silva-Mendoza, 27; Luis Vasquez-Maldonado, 29.

Phillip Pina can be reached at ppina@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2162.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 15, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS TOIL FOR 'BREAD'

BYLINE: Chris Hewitt, Movie Critic

SECTION: EXPRESS; Pg. E13

LENGTH: 350 words


For a movie about labor, "Bread and Roses" is surprisingly unlabored.

The characters are empathetic, the dialogue never sounds like position papers,
and the arguments are clearly, if one-sidedly, presented. Nearly all the people
in "Bread and Roses" are Mexican illegals, living and working in Los Angeles.
They're paid slave wages, with no benefits, until spirited Maya (Pilar Padilla)
comes to America, sees the exploited life that awaits her and decides to change
it.

The best thing about "Bread and Roses" is how effectively it sticks a pin in the
notion that these workers don't deserve living wages because they're here
illegally. "Bread and Roses" argues that everyone deserves a decent, healthy
life. As Maya fights to unionize the illegals, the movie suggests what an
important American she -- and other illegals -- could be if she didn't have to
spend every minute worrying about deportation, and it becomes a sharp, feisty
reminder that the ability to incorporate diverse people with diverse talents is
what made this country strong.

"Bread and Roses" looks at Maya's dilemma from a variety of angles, but her
struggle for bread is not seen through rose-colored glasses. People get hurt,
lose their jobs and make huge sacrifices that may not pay off. The fact-based
ending offers hope, but "Bread and Roses" recognizes that some people have no
hope unless they're willing to fight.

On the other hand, although "Bread and Roses" respects the contradictions of
Maya's situation, it doesn't ask enough questions about the long-term impact of
her struggle. There's no mention made, for instance, of legal Americans who lose
their jobs because illegals are willing to work for less than minimum wage. That
feels like a mighty big gap in a movie as thoughtful and curious as "Bread and
Roses" usually is.

- WHAT: "Bread and Roses"

- WHO: Directed by: Ken Loach

Starring: Pilar Padilla

- RATED: R for lots of strong language and brief nudity

- SHOULD YOU GO? You've seen illegal aliens dealt with on "60 Minutes," but this
is a clear-eyed glimpse from their perspective. ** 1/2

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 15, 2002 Wednesday

MINNEAPOLIS-ST. PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT: 21 airport workers detained

BYLINE: BILL GARDNER Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 348 words


Twenty-one people, most working in food service businesses in secure areas at
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, were detained Tuesday by federal
agents on suspicion of various immigration violations.

U.S. Attorney Thomas Heffelfinger said the sweep was "part of a national and
local effort to ensure that people who are employed in secure areas of our
airports are there properly."

About half of those detained are from Mexico, Heffelfinger said. The sweep was
conducted at such businesses as McDonald's, TGI Friday's and Sky Chef, a food
supplier for airlines. One was employed at a shoeshine shop.

Those detained "would have access to travelers who have passed through
security," Heffelfinger said.

The sweep was aimed at businesses and not because of information about any
particular person, Heffelfinger said.

"We didn't know who we would find or which country they had come from," he said.

Last month, federal officials said they had arrested or indicted more than 450
workers at 15 airports across the country on such charges as using phony Social
Security numbers, lying about past criminal convictions or being in the country
illegally.

The arrests have been criticized by some as a long overdue response to the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks on the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., and the World Trade
towers in New York City.

Others have called the arrests a crackdown on poorly paid working people who
have no connection to terrorism.

Steve Thal, a Twin Cities immigration attorney and past chairman of the
Minnesota-Dakotas chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said
the United States and Mexico are negotiating to make it easier for U.S.
businesses to hire Mexican employees.

Obtaining visas and proper work permits is difficult for Mexicans seeking
low-paying U.S. jobs, Thal said.

Many undocumented employees "have worked very hard in this country and have had
taxes withheld and have made positive contributions to our economy," Thal said.

Bill Gardner can be reached at wgardner@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5461.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 12, 2002 Friday

Al-Qaida 'sleeper' cells hunkered down in U.S., Ashcroft says

BYLINE: JOSH MEYER and ERIC LICHTBLAU Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 506 words


WASHINGTON -- The al-Qaida terrorist organization maintains an aggressive
network of underground "sleeper" cells in the United States and is trying to
smuggle even more terrorists into the country by having them pose as ordinary
visitors, Attorney General John Ashcroft said Thursday.

"Today, the United States is at war with a terrorist network operating within
our borders," Ashcroft testified before a congressional panel on homeland
security. "Al-Qaida maintains a hidden but active presence in the United States
waiting to strike again."

His comments came as Justice Department officials disclosed that most of about
1,200 people detained in the Sept. 11 dragnet have been deported on immigration
violations, though some were released after being cleared of criminal
involvement in the attacks.

Only 73 people remained in federal custody Thursday, none on charges related to
terrorism. Most face immigration violations.

Even so, Ashcroft said the Justice Department has had many successes in rounding
up suspects and thwarting future attacks in the 10 months since terrorists
hijacked commercial jetliners and flew them into the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon.

"But we are not under any illusions," Ashcroft said. "There remain sleeper
terrorists and their supporters in the United States who have not yet been
identified in a way that will allow us to take preemptive action against them."

Of particular concern, he said, are signs that terrorists posing as tourists,
businessmen and students are trying to penetrate U.S. borders, hiding among the
more than 700,000 visitors who come each year from countries in which al-Qaida
has been active.

Ashcroft's remarks came during a hearing before the House Select Committee on
Homeland Security, which is trying to reassemble the nation's law enforcement,
immigration and intelligence-gathering agencies into one cohesive apparatus to
prevent future terrorist attacks.

Ashcroft did not discuss how many al-Qaida operatives or other terrorists may be
hiding and plotting in the United States.

An FBI official, speaking on condition of anonymity, estimated that as many as
500 people are under investigation nationwide, with as many as 200 of them being
monitored.

Federal law enforcement officials discounted a widely circulated report Thursday
that as many as 5,000 people in the United States are al-Qaida sympathizers.

But they said many large, urban cities in particular are suspected of harboring
terrorist cells, which use the local Muslim community as cover and as a group
from which to recruit sympathizers.

The belief that sleeper cells still exist within the United States is based on
investigations in various U.S. cities, as well as intelligence gathered from
al-Qaida detainees and other sources, according to a senior FBI official.

Al-Qaida has trained its operatives to slip in and out of the country unnoticed,
and to exploit the often-gaping seams between international and domestic
counterterrorism agencies, Ashcroft testified.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      October 24, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

SUIT FAULTS IMMIGRANT'S TRANSPLANT HEALTH CARE
NEW STATE POLICY ON DRUG THERAPY CITED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 496 words


A lawsuit claims a teenage illegal immigrant who had a kidney transplant faces a
lifetime of dialysis because cutbacks in the state's Medical Assistance program
will deprive him of anti-rejection drugs.

The immigrant is a 16-year-old boy from Mexico who moved to Austin in 2002 to
live with his brother and had the transplant last spring at the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, the lawsuit said. He was not identified.

When the boy had the transplant, illegal immigrants were eligible for the
Medical Assistance program, which covered transplants and anti-rejection drugs.
But after legislative budget cuts, the boy lost his benefits July 1, qualifying
only for emergency medical care that pays for dialysis but not the drugs.

The lawsuit, which was filed Wednesday in Ramsey County District Court, said the
state refuses to pay $1,400 per month for the drugs, but the federal government
will probably pay $3,600 per month for his dialysis.

Wes Kooistra, deputy commissioner of the Human Services Department, declined to
comment on the specifics of the case. But he added, "We believe we have a
tentative agreement that responsibly addresses the urgency of the case, and
provides the necessary time for all parties to review and consider the facts."
The boy's lawyers, Liz Kramer and Byron Starns, also declined to comment.

According to the lawsuit, soon after the boy and his mother moved to Austin he
became ill and suffered kidney failure. Doctors at the Mayo Clinic determined
his older brother could be a donor, and they transplanted one of the brother's
kidneys into the boy in April in an operation that was covered by Medical
Assistance.

On July 1, new rules making most illegal immigrants ineligible for medical
benefits went into effect, depriving the boy of coverage for the drugs that
transplant patients must take for life. But the lawsuit said his dialysis "would
likely be covered" by emergency medical assistance.

The complaint said the Human Services Department, which runs Medical Assistance
programs, "used its discretion" to exclude anti-rejection drugs from the medical
conditions covered by emergency medical assistance. Therefore the boy cannot
receive the drugs from either the state or federal government, it said.

According to a notice posted in 2002 on the department Web site, emergency
medical assistance in Minnesota does not cover transplants and anti-rejection
drugs.

The boy will run out of drugs today, the lawsuit said, despite efforts by a
social worker at the Mayo Clinic who tried to find alternative sources. She
tried charitable groups, pharmaceutical companies that make the drugs and other
organizations. In the meantime, the boy's family has "scrambled to find money
for his prescription."

The lawyers argued that because some immigrants are still covered by
state-funded health insurance programs, depriving the boy of such benefits is a
violation of the equal-protection provision of the Constitution.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TWIN CITIES

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 25, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

METRO;
REGIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: LOCAL; METRO/REGIONAL BRIEFING; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 703 words


MINNESOTA

Immigrant's care covered for now

A teenage illegal immigrant who had a kidney transplant in April will get the
anti-rejection drugs he needs as lawyers try to resolve a lawsuit.

The 16-year-old lost medical coverage July 1 because of state budget cutbacks.

That's when a new state law took effect, making all illegal immigrants in
Minnesota ineligible for state-funded health insurance. They still qualify for
federal emergency medical assistance, but that specifically excludes transplants
and any treatment related to them, said Wes Kooistra, deputy commissioner of the
Human Services Department.

A court agreement filed Thursday states that the Human Services Department will
continue to pay for the teen's anti-rejection drugs pending a final resolution
of the legal issues. Kooistra said that could occur through a court case or some
other means.

Dialysis is covered under the emergency assistance program, but would have cost
the federal government more than the anti-rejection drugs, according to a
lawsuit filed Wednesday in Ramsey County District Court.

At the time the boy had the transplant, illegal immigrants were covered by
medical assistance, which paid for the boy's operation and the drugs he needed
to prevent his body from rejecting the transplanted kidney.

Kathy McDonough, an attorney who specializes in benefit issues for the Legal
Services Advocacy Project in St. Paul, said the federal law that excludes
transplants from emergency medical coverage is open to interpretation.

It's not clear, she said, that anti-rejection drugs are excluded, and the state
does have some discretion in interpreting the law.

-- Associated Press

KNOX, N.D.

Minnesota hunter presumed drowned

Authorities searched a small Benson County lake Friday for a missing Minnesota
duck hunter who is presumed drowned.

The man and two others were on Mud Lake, southeast of Knox in north-central
North Dakota, when their boat started taking on water early Thursday, District
Game Warden Chris Knutson said.

"Two made it to shore, one did not," he said. "They were in the water for
several hours, even the ones that made it to shore."

The men, from Backus, Minn., were not immediately identified.

Members of the Lake Region Search and Rescue dive team searched the lake
Thursday but had to call it off Friday because of winds reaching up to 40 mph,
Knutson said.

The search was to resume when weather conditions were more favorable, he said.

-- Associated Press

ROBBINSDALE

Man pleads guilty in teen's slaying

A 20-year-old Robbinsdale man pleaded guilty to murder charges Friday prior to
the scheduled start of his trial in the 2002 stabbing death of a 17-year-old
youth.

Robert Lee Scott entered a guilty plea to second-degree intentional murder in
Hennepin County District Court. Judge Mary Steenson Dufresne is expected to
sentence Scott to 290 months in prison -- about 24 years -- on Nov. 17.

Scott was charged two days after the mother of 17-year-old Joshua Hoenisch found
her son dead in his bedroom in their Robbinsdale home in July 2002. Police said
the victim had been stabbed multiple times.

Scott, who lived near his victim's home, was arrested within hours of the
discovery of Hoenisch's body.

According to a complaint, Scott offered no explanation for the stabbing, but
kept repeating, "I don't know why, but I just stabbed him."

-- David Hawley

MINNESOTA

Crime computer network gets chief

Bob Johnson has been named executive director of CriMNet, the statewide computer
network shared by 1,100 police departments, sheriff's offices, prosecutors,
probation agencies throughout the Minnesota criminal justice system. Johnson,
manager of the Criminal Justice Information System section of the state Bureau
of Criminal Apprehension, has served as interim director of CriMNet for the past
year.

Commissioner of Public Safety Rich Stanek said in announcing Johnson's
appointment that CriMNet personnel will move into the new BCA facility scheduled
for completion next month on St. Paul's East Side. The BCA will oversee daily
operations of CriMNet.

The CriMNet system connects the databases of all state criminal justice
agencies.

-- Pioneer Press

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    February 21, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

MEXICO EYES ILLEGAL MIGRANT ACCORD
U.S. WANTS TO SEND DEPORTEES ALL THE WAY TO THEIR HOMETOWNS

BYLINE: LISA J. ADAMSAssociated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 488 words


MEXICO CITY -- The United States is working on an agreement with Mexico to
deport illegal migrants to their hometowns instead of dropping them just over
the border, an effort to prevent deaths and stop smugglers.

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said Friday that the measure would apply
only to migrants caught while crossing.

Ridge said the United States hopes to start deporting migrants to their original
communities by the summer, when crossings are at their highest and most
dangerous.

The new program mirrors a similar repatriation operation in place in the 1990s
that was discontinued.

Currently, migrants captured in the United States are flown or bused to the
border and sent across to Mexico. Mexican border towns have complained they are
being flooded with people who have no money or place to stay, and U.S. officials
say it just encourages migrants to cross again.

During his two-day visit to Mexico, Ridge also signed an agreement with Mexican
Interior Secretary Santiago Creel to increase security along the border.

The deal includes measures to improve surveillance, crack down on migrant
smugglers and intensify programs to warn migrants of the dangers of illegal
crossings. A joint U.S.-Mexico commission will work out the details.

In a meeting with reporters, Homeland Security Undersecretary Asa Hutchinson
indicated Mexico fully supported the new deportation program.

Few details of the plan have been worked out, however, and arriving at a final
agreement may be difficult given Mexico's concerns about sovereignty and migrant
complaints about being sent all the way home.

Broad differences between the two sides were evident Friday.

Creel insisted that migrants not be forced to return home, saying: "This has to
be voluntary."

Hutchinson had said Mexican officials were considering making the program
mandatory for migrants, although incentives could be developed to persuade them
to return home voluntarily.

"Whether it would be voluntary or involuntary remains a very sensitive topic,
and one that we'll continue to talk about," he said.

Many migrants die of heat exposure and in accidents while crossing the border.
More than 150 people died in 2003 while illegally crossing the U.S.-Mexico
border through the harsh southern Arizona desert, the U.S. Customs and Border
Patrol said.

Hutchinson indicated that both the repatriation program and increased border
security could help garner support for President Bush's proposed guest worker
program, which would give temporary visas to migrants with U.S. jobs.

The program's cost, which migrant corridors would be targeted, and how the
United States will address Mexico's sovereignty issues have yet to be worked
out, Ridge said.

He said the United States was willing to help pay for the migrants' flights
home, although U.S. lawmakers have opposed such initiatives in the past, saying
the flights cost too much.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    March 9, 2004 Tuesday MINNESOTA EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFING

SECTION: MAIN; NATION & WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 198 words


20 illegals found in camper

LOS ANGELES -- Twenty suspected illegal immigrants were found crammed inside the
sweltering camper compartment of a pickup truck on a freeway Monday. Seven were
taken to the hospital. The discovery came amid a hot spell, with temperatures
already into the 80s at midmorning. "They were suffering from dehydration,
shortness of breath and chest pains," Fire Department spokesman Jim Wells said.
"Their illness did not appear life-threatening."

Baltimore crews search for 3 bodies

BALTIMORE -- Recovery crews equipped with sonar equipment and helicopters
focused on a 1,000-square-yard area of Baltimore Harbor on Monday in the search
for three people missing since a water taxi capsized during a sudden storm.
Divers were sent to investigate three objects detected in the search area that
could be the missing passengers, Fire Department spokesman Kevin Cartwright
said. By Monday afternoon, one of the objects was determined to be debris,
Cartwright said. The Seaport Taxi pontoon boat overturned Saturday afternoon
when the area was struck by a sudden storm. Of the 25 people on board, one died,
and a man, a woman and a child were still missing.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 5, 2004 Monday CITY EDITION

IN SEARCH OF THE GOOD LIFE, AMERICANS MISDIRECT ANGER AT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 707 words


If you want to get Americans really fired up, bring up the controversial subject
of the health care costs associated with illegal immigrants.

Who can blame them for getting upset? Here you have lawbreakers who shouldn't be
in this country, and they're putting in the red many public hospitals from
Oregon to Iowa to North Carolina by relying on American taxpayers to pay for
everything from the treatment of workplace injuries to delivering babies. We
shouldn't force hospitals to turn away people in need of care. But we can do a
better job of making sure more of the costs go to those who should bear them --
patients and their employers.

And yet, the same Americans who kick up a fuss about health care for illegal
immigrants never seem to connect the dots to the people who are dodging their
responsibility to pay at least a portion of these costs -- the immigrants'
employers.

When I go to the doctor or the hospital, I present an insurance card issued by
the company my employer has contracted with to provide employee health
insurance.

Now this may shock you, but it's very likely that most of the estimated 8
million to illegal immigrants in the United States don't have the benefit of
employer-sponsored health insurance. Why would they? If employers had to provide
illegal immigrants with health insurance, it would eliminate the economic
benefit that comes from hiring illegal immigrants. Some would say that illegal
immigrants shouldn't get health insurance because, after all, they're illegal.
And to that, I'd say: These workers shouldn't be hired in the first place. After
all, they're illegal. But back in the real world, they are being hired. And when
they get sick or injured, they go to the emergency room of a public hospital.
And the cost falls back on you and me.

That makes Americans angry. I understand. What I don't understand is why these
angry Americans tend to direct that anger at the immigrants instead of at U.S.
employers, who make out like bandits. Those who hire illegal immigrants reap the
benefits of cheap labor while passing the health care cost for the laborers onto
taxpayers.

But employers aren't the only ones to blame. During a recent trip to Yakima,
Wash., I had an enlightening conversation with an apple farmer, a health care
provider and a small-business owner, all of whom were sitting at the same table.
Most of what they said, I expected to hear. I expected the entrepreneur to
complain about having to pay higher taxes to keep her community's hospital
afloat. I expected the health care provider to say that he didn't want to be in
the position of acting as a surrogate for the INS and denying care to the sick
or the injured. And, when I suggested that employers were dodging their
responsibility to provide health insurance to workers, I expected the farmer --
who acknowledged that most of the workers in his industry are Mexican
immigrants, and that most of them are probably illegal -- to say that having to
pay for health insurance for workers would send him into bankruptcy.

What I did not expect was for the farmer to say that he would be willing to
provide health insurance to some of his workers provided he could pass on some
of the expense to consumers who buy his product.

OK, I thought, now we're getting somewhere. So, I asked the business owner and
the health provider (both of whom like apples) if they'd be willing to pay a
little more at the grocery story just so we could resolve all this.

They both said no. They had options. In recent years, the U.S. apple market has
experienced a dramatic increase in importation of apples from China, and the
Chinese apples are available for a fraction of what Washington apple growers
expect for their product.

Everyone shrugged. I shrugged.

What struck me is that this was a discussion between Americans, a family
argument if you will, that really didn't have much to do with immigrants or
health care. It was about what Americans wanted -- lower taxes, affordable
labor, cheap products -- and how hard it is to have your apple and eat it too.

Navarrette (e-mail: rnavarrette@dallasnews.com) is an editorial columnist for
the Dallas Morning News. Distributed by the Washington Post Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 18, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

THREE DIE IN SHOOTOUT BETWEEN U.N. OFFICERS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION & WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 810 words


LJUBJLANA, Slovenia -- Two American women working as prison guards with the
United Nations in Kosovo were killed Saturday and 10 other Americans and an
Austrian working as prison officers were wounded when a Jordanian, also with the
United Nations, opened fire on them, officials said. The attacker was shot and
killed. The attack took place in a prison in the northern city of Mitrovica.
U.N. officials said the motive for the shooting was not immediately clear. The
American dead and wounded were among a group of 21 U.S. prison officers who had
arrived in Kosovo on April 7. U.N. peacekeepers and police officers have been
working in Kosovo since 1999, after NATO's 78-day bombing campaign to stop
forces backed by the former Serbian president, Slobodan Milosevic, from driving
ethnic Albanians from the province.

For more on this story, go to www.twincities.com/news and click on Nation/World.

Immigrant liscensing delayed

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -- A bill backed by Gov. Jeb Bush that would have allowed
illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses has been abandoned by its sponsor
after law enforcement officials raised security concerns. Republican state Sen.
Rudy Garcia said he would propose studying the issue before next year's
legislative session begins. It was the latest setback to efforts to grant
licenses to illegal immigrants. Four months ago, California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger repealed a law that would have allowed about 2 million illegal
immigrant drivers there to begin applying for licenses. Bush said Saturday that
he would continue to work with law enforcement to improve the measure before
next session.

Lost Valentino film found

AMSTERDAM, Netherlands -- A copy of Rudolph Valentino's silent film "Beyond the
Rocks" has been found in the Netherlands, becoming the only known existing print
of the 1922 classic, the Amsterdam Film Museum said Saturday. The film is
"basically complete and basically undamaged," said Film Museum historian Jan van
den Brink. He said the film was found in the estate of a film collector from the
city of Haarlem. The film is being restored and will be shown for the first time
in 2005.

Indian star dies in plane crash

NEW DELHI -- A Indian movie star and three other people were killed when their
plane crashed in southern India minutes after takeoff Saturday, officials said.
Actress Soundarya, who had been campaigning for Prime Minister Atal Bihari
Vajpayee's Bharatiya Janata Party, was headed to an election rally when the
plane caught fire and crashed just after taking off from Bangalore, city police
chief S. Mariswamy said. The dead also included a party official, the pilot of
the chartered aircraft and Soundarya's brother, spokesman Amitabh Sinha said.
Soundarya, 32, acted in more than 100 movies in several language.

Russians battle Chechen rebels

MOSCOW -- Hundreds of Russian troops battled Chechen separatist guerrillas
holding hostages in Ingushetia in southern Russia Saturday as violence spilled
over the border of war-torn Chechnya. Four rebels and two hostages were reported
killed in the shoot-out, and as many as six federal troops were wounded after
the troops cornered a group of rebels that, according to a Russian military
spokesman, was planning to launch suicide attacks in Russia. Troops fired
heavy-caliber machine guns into a house where the guerrillas were holed up with
their captives until the home was reduced to a smoking ruin. The firefight
followed a week of bloodshed in which 15 civilians died and rebels killed a
dozen Russian troops and pro-Moscow Chechen police in raids.

Gasparovic wins Sovakia vote

BRATISLAVA, Slovakia -- Lawyer Ivan Gasparovic beat Prime Minister Vladimir
Meciar in a presidential runoff election today, garnering 60 percent, or 1
million, of the votes, the Central Election Commission said. Turnout was about
44 percent. Gasparovic, 63, is a one-time ally of Meciar, 61, known for his
authoritarian leadership style. The presidency is a largely ceremonial post, but
the job has symbolic importance as Slovakia joins the European Union May 1.

Dad's dogs maul boy to death

CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- An 8-year-old boy was mauled to death by his father's four
pit bulls, and prosecutors were considering charges against the father ranging
from child neglect to murder. Roddie Philip Dumas Jr. was attacked in the
fenced-in yard of his father's home Friday. Neighbors and a postal worker who
heard the boy's screams rushed to the scene. The boy's father, Roddie Philip
Dumas Sr., 29, and his girlfriend, were inside the house but did not come
outside until the dogs had already severely injured the boy, officials said. The
boy was taken to a hospital, where he died. Dumas was in jail Saturday on a
$233,000 bond after being charged with drug and firearms felonies. Animal
control officers seized the four dogs.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Soundarya

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 3, 2002 Tuesday

Foreign workers boost labor growth

BYLINE: BY GENARO C. ARMAS; Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 442 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigrants accounted for over half the growth in the nation's
labor force the past decade, filling openings in factories and textile mills,
restaurants and other blue-collar industries, according to a private analysis of
government data.

The immigrant influx was felt throughout the country but was especially vital in
the Northeast, where the new U.S. residents comprised nearly all of the net
increase in the labor force there, said the report released Monday by the Center
for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University.

The study of Census Bureau figures between 1990 and 2001 also found that recent
immigrants helped fill openings that required more education such as in
engineering firms and the high-tech industry.

An influx of Latino, African and Asian immigrants boosted the share of
foreign-born residents in Minnesota to 260,454, or 5 percent of the state's
population, double what it was in 1990, according to census data.

"What immigration has really done is expand the base at the bottom and to a
lesser extent help" fill openings near the top end of the scale, said one of the
study's authors, Northeastern University economist Paul Harrington. "This is a
story of a long-term shift in the reliance of foreign sources for labor in the
United States."

The findings are in line with previously released Census Bureau data showing a
57 percent increase in the foreign-born population during the 1990s to about
31.1 million. During the same period, the Hispanic population grew to rival
blacks as the nation's largest minority group.

Between 1990 and 2001, the civilian labor force grew by nearly 16 million to
141.8 million. Half that increase was due to immigrants who entered during the
period of soaring economic growth for the nation.

New immigrants made up 79 percent of the increase in the male civilian labor
force, vs. 30 percent of the increase among women.

Steven Camarota, a researcher with the Center for Immigration Studies, said the
report failed to note other effects of the immigration surge such as on school
enrollment and public assistance rolls.

Immigrant families tend to have higher rates of poverty than those families
headed by a U.S.-born resident.

Allowing immigrants to flood low-skilled occupations may also hold down wages
since there are more people competing for jobs, said Camarota, whose group
favors some limits on immigration.

"Where is the net benefit for natives? It's not clear."

Harrington said federal and state lawmakers must make more of an effort to
connect labor market and immigration policy as immigrants become a more vital
source of economic growth.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 10, 2003 Monday

Pro-government gunmen terrorize Ivorian migrants

BYLINE: BY SUDARSAN RAGHAVAN; Knight Ridder Foreign Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 593 words


SHANTYTOWN, Ivory Coast -- The people here are afraid of the darkness, when
pro-government police torch homes, beat people and order poor Muslim immigrants
to leave the country.

Tens of thousands of impoverished migrant workers, who once saw the Ivory Coast
as a beacon of hope, have fled to neighboring nations in the wake of a brutal
four-month civil war that has killed hundreds. The pro-government forces accuse
the Muslim immigrants of supporting the rebels.

Those who remain here are persecuted -- along with Ivorians from the west and
Muslim north -- because they share the same religion or ethnicity or come from
the same region as the rebels.

"My heart pounds every night," said Abu Bamba, 26, his eyes widening.

The attacks underscore the deep ethnic, religious and regional rifts -- as well
as divisions over who's an Ivorian -- that are at the heart of this war. After
decades of welcoming migrant workers to work on cocoa farms and ports,
successive leaders, starting in 1993, advanced the concept of "Ivoirite" -- a
belief in true Ivorian blood -- to strip immigrants and northerners of voting
rights.

The rebels tried without success to oust the president on Sept. 19.

Then they seized the west and the Muslim north, where many people resent the
Christian southerners' domination of the government.

Many immigrants, particularly those from neighboring Burkina Faso, have ethnic
and religious links to northerners. In Abidjan, the southern pro-government
power base, they are targets.

At least 16 shantytowns populated largely by immigrants and northerners have
been razed since the conflict began, say U.N. officials. The government suspects
them of harboring rebels and weapons.

After the United Nations complained, Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo promised
in October that no more shantytowns would be destroyed. But the harassment and
intimidation haven't stopped, say dozens of witnesses, U.N. officials, aid
workers and western diplomats.

The president on Jan. 24 agreed to a peace accord that calls for power sharing
with the rebels. Hours later, armed men stormed into Washington shantytown, a
ramshackle community on a hill overlooking Abidjan that is home only to the
poorest of the poor from Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger and Ivorians from the
rebel-held north and west.

The armed men rounded up women and men from their tin-roofed shacks.

"They told us to lie on the floor," recalled Manganave Bamba, 27, her voice
shaking. "Then they poured fuel on us, and began asking for matches. Everybody
jumped up and started crying and screaming."

Wielding clubs, some of the men dragged Abu Bamba, no relation to Manganave,
from his shack, and demanded to see his identity card. He was from the west, so
they beat him.

"They said, 'You want to take our country and give it to the foreigners,' "
recalled Abu Bamba, who flashed a long, jagged gash cut on his back.

"They didn't burn us, but they promised they'd be back to light a big fire,"
said Manganave Bamba.

Carolyn McAskie, the U.N.'s chief humanitarian envoy to the country, visited
Washington shantytown the next day and said the acts committed there violated
the country's laws.

But three days after the initial assault, the armed men returned and razed nine
homes, all of them owned by immigrants or northerners. They also took seven
people away for questioning.

"We hid in the bush and watched them burn down our house," said Issa Sodre, 52,
a frail driver from Burkina Faso who has lived here for 35 years. "Why are they
doing this? We are not rebels."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        July 1, 2001 Sunday CITY EDITION

LANGUAGE TUTORS TEACHING ENGLISH TO WORKERS ON DAIRY FARMS;
PROGRAM HELPS DAIRY BUSINESSES, IMMIGRANT WORKERS COMMUNICATE

BYLINE: GARY DAWSON STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 602 words

DATELINE: RIVER FALLS, WIS.


Dairy farming is a labor-intensive business, and people willing to work the
hard, long hours are in short supply. So the state's dairy farmers have
increasingly turned to recent immigrants for help.

In solving one problem, dairy farmers now find themselves confronting another:
communicating with their new employees.

The University of Wisconsin-River Falls, which has the largest dairy science
program in the nation, is completing a pilot program to train tutors to work on
the farms to teach English as a second language to laborers.

"The care and milking of cows requires a strict protocol," said Katrina Larsen,
outreach program coordinator at the university. "There are specific steps
workers have to follow, and that requires communication."

As many as 11 percent of Wisconsin's 1.3 million dairy cows are milked by people
who don't speak English, including a large number of people from Mexico and
Central America.

The River Falls program not only includes learning dairy terms and other English
terms but correct pronunciation as well. The tutors need not know foreign
languages. They teach English much as it is taught to American preschoolers and
kindergarteners, using pictures, objects and drawings.

Ten student tutors are enrolled in the program. They completed the two-week
classroom portion of the course last week, and several have elected to enroll in
a second, optional phase that will place them on dairy farms where they will
tutor non-English-speaking workers this summer. In this portion of the program,
the students will apply their classroom training, which included a visit to a
large St. Croix County dairy farm. The students will put in 25 hours of tutoring
over a period of at least three weeks.

Those who don't enroll in the field portion of the program can apply what they
learned in their own classrooms or in business and community programs where
English is taught as a second language.

Jim MacTavish of River Falls plans to use what he learns in a hoped-for stint in
the Peace Corps. Don Crandall of Black River Falls works with Western Wisconsin
Literacy Services tutoring students.

Karen Patacini of Cottage Grove, Minn., a stay-at-home mom who has been taking
college courses for about a year, wants to expand her overall knowledge and
opportunities. Kathy Hunter of Roberts has worked part-time on dairy farms and
grew up on one. She wants to gain teaching experience.

Peter Donald of River Falls is a graduate student in education who describes
himself as a political and social activist. He wasn't aware that a lot of
immigrants are working on dairy farms.

"I was naive about that. I want to learn more about them," he said.

"These workers are no different than our ancestors when they came over here,"
said Karen Dennis, a Madison area community program teacher. "People need to
communicate to be successful."

Larsen said some dairy farmers occasionally bring in interpreters but have not
found that adequate.

"That's a Band-Aid sort of thing. They still have a problem with day-to-day
communication," she said.

Program instructor Jo Seton said the dairy industry has shown a lot of interest
in the pilot program. Michelle Wieghart, dairy outreach coordinator with the
university's Agricultural Resource Center, is assisting Seton and Larsen.

To learn more

For information about the Dairy Workers ESL Project, visit www.uwrf.edu/outreach
on the Web, e-mail katrina.larsen@uwrf.edu or call (715) 425-3256.

Gary Dawson, who covers western Wisconsin, can be reached at
gddawson@pioneerpress.com, toll free at (800) 739-3921 or at (715) 381-1808.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: JOE ODEN, PIONEER PRESS
University of Wisconsin-River Falls outreach coordinator Katrina Larsen, left,
and Jo Seton, instructor in the English as the First Language program, are
shown Tuesday at the school's dairy lab farm in River Falls. They're part of a
program that trains tutors for dairy-farm workers who need to learn English.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 31, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

DEATH TOO HIGH A PRICE FOR IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: LINDA CHAVEZ-THOMPSON Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 443 words


The price of coming to America should not be death in a dangerous workplace.

The fatality rate for Hispanic workers in the United States is 20 percent higher
than for other workers, according to a recent Bureau of Labor Statistics report.
Many Hispanics at highest risk are immigrants who end up working in
construction, meatpacking and agriculture.

It's only partly true that these industries are inherently more dangerous.

But it's also true that these jobs become more dangerous when employers hire
immigrants and then refuse to provide safety training or allow them to speak
freely about working conditions or to join co-workers in making the workplace
safer.

The first step to ending deaths and serious injuries among Hispanics and
immigrant workers is to ensure that immigrant workers have the same rights and
freedoms as other employees. This means training workers to report on dangerous
conditions.

Thousands of immigrants are lured to the United States by employers who know
their new hires don't have legal documents. These employers are fully aware that
their workers are less likely to raise concerns about hazardous working
conditions because they fear being fired or deported.

But to their credit, some employers have tried to address these problems. Some
construction companies create Spanish-language videos on the dangers of
construction work, and some employers hire supervisors who can speak Spanish and
warn of hazards.

However well-intentioned, such moves are not sufficient in making jobs safer for
immigrants. We must also improve national employment policy toward immigrants.
Employers who hire immigrant workers should be responsible for following federal
job-safety laws, and they should face stiff penalties for failing to do so.

And immigrants who must live in the shadows of our society because they don't
have legal documents should be granted legal status without being chained to a
particular employer in the fashion many current guest-worker proposals suggest.

Immigrant workers are a major part of our economy and society, and millions of
immigrant families are paying taxes and are contributing to our communities.
They have dreams for their children and concerns for their own safety just like
everyone else.

We are a nation of immigrants. If we are to remain the beacon of freedom we
claim to be, the price of getting to America should be commitment, hard work and
contributions to community, not death.

Chavez-Thompson is executive vice president of the AFL-CIO. Write her in care of
the Progressive Media Project, 409 E. Main St., Madison WI 53703. Distributed
for the project by KRT News Service.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 9, 2001 Sunday CITY EDITION

SETTING A NEW TONE;
MEXICAN WORKERS' FATE DEPENDS ON BUSH, ECONOMY AND POLITICS

BYLINE: JAMES KUHNHENN, Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 796 words


WASHINGTON -- Five years ago, the Republican-led Congress talked of building
fences on the U.S.-Mexico border to keep immigrants out. Today, Republican
President Bush and many lawmakers in both parties demand that up to 4.5 million
Mexicans working here illegally be allowed to stay.

The shifting political mood was never more evident than last week, when Mexican
President Vicente Fox visited the United States as Bush's first official state
visitor. Fox pushed hard for a U.S. commitment to legalize his countrymen who
are working here, and Bush and leading lawmakers pledged to labor toward a
solution.

At issue are millions of Mexicans who are working in the United States without
appropriate visas, whose labors contribute $154 billion to the nation's gross
domestic product. They work all across America at jobs few U.S.-born workers
want, from picking cotton to vacuuming suburban homes.

Yet they live in society's shadows, unable to rent apartments or establish
credit, and in constant fear of deportation.

Their fate depends on whether Bush and Congress can navigate through competing
interest groups, including unions newly eager to defend a potential pool of
workers, businesses fearful of union-protected immigrants, and other immigrants
who would resent special deals for Mexicans.

The drive to legalize undocumented workers and admit even more as "guest
workers" also depends in part upon how deeply the U.S. economy sinks in its
current slowdown, because immigrants are less popular when jobs are scarce.

In the words of 34-year-old Ricardo, an undocumented Mexican immigrant who has
worked as a laborer in the Washington suburbs for six years, the new tone in the
nation's capital "gives us hope, but not certitude."

According to the 2000 census, 35.3 million Hispanics live in the United States,
13 percent of the population.

"We've had three elections in a row that have been very, very close in the
country," said U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas, a leading GOP advocate for
more open immigration. "Both parties have said, 'We cannot miss this voting
bloc.' "

But changing demographics don't guarantee a quick answer to the
illegal-immigrant question. Bush and Congress must overcome resistance to
liberalized immigration policies, particularly from conservative quarters.

So it's no wonder Fox surprised Bush on Wednesday by calling for an immigration
pact by year's end. It's easier for Fox to insist on a prompt resolution than
for Bush to forge one.

Bush not only must resolve practical problems rising from changing the legal
status of millions of Mexicans, such as enforcing their new rights, but he must
strike a balance with other views in Congress. Democrats, particularly liberals,
don't believe Mexican immigrants should be the only illegal workers who get a
reprieve.

On the other side are conservatives who believe opening borders or legalizing
undocumented workers would impose burdens on the American taxpayer.

"America's schools, roads and hospitals are bearing the brunt of a deeply
one-sided relationship," said U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., chairman of the
Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus, a group of lawmakers who oppose looser
immigration policies.

Dealing with his own party may prove to be as difficult for Bush as fending off
Democrats.

"Making this happen is going to require the president to visibly stand up to the
small and, I think, shrinking faction of his party," said Cecilia Munoz, vice
president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a Latino rights group.

To appease conservative opponents, Bush and Democrats no longer talk about
providing "amnesty" to illegal workers. Instead, they refer to an "earned
adjustment of their status." That means that undocumented workers would have to
meet certain conditions, such as a prescribed length of time in the United
States, sustained employment, language proficiency and a clean criminal record,
to win legal status.

IN MINNESOTA

While the number of undocumented immigrants in Minnesota undoubtedly is growing,
officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Bloomington, which
covers Minnesota and the Dakotas, have no estimate of the total.

The last INS estimate, released in 1996 and outdated even at the time, put the
undocumented population at 7,200.

Last year, a Latino advocacy group released a study placing the total between
18,000 and 48,000. The study, from the nonprofit Hispanic Advocacy and Community
Empowerment through Research, estimated undocumented workers contributed $1.56
billion to the state's economy.

The number of illegal immigrants removed from the district has grown from 769 in
fiscal 1996 to 1,347 in fiscal 2000, said Tim Counts, INS public information
officer.

-- Todd Nelson

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 25, 2004 Saturday ST. PAUL EDITION

BEEF PLANT WORKERS JOIN UNION
LOCAL 789 GAINS FOOTHOLD WITH IMMIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: MIKE HUGHLETT, Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 356 words


A majority of employees at Minnesota Beef Industries in Buffalo Lake voted to
unionize Friday, a potentially important victory in labor's attempt to organize
immigrant food industry workers.

Workers at the meatpacking plant voted 53 to 46 to join South St. Paul-based
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 789. The vote came 4 1/2 months after
Minnesota Beef workers voted 67 to 32 against joining Local 789.

But the union filed an objection to the first election with the National Labor
Relations Board. Union officials claimed managers intimidated workers,
threatening to fire them or possibly get them deported if they joined the union.

The company didn't admit to any of the allegations but agreed to a second
election. A Minnesota Beef manager said the company had no comment on Friday's
election.

The company has a week to challenge the election's outcome.

Minnesota Beef, about 1 1/2 hours west of St. Paul, has about 125 hourly
workers. The union's victory, while not huge numerically, is important in Local
789's attempt to organize other meat plants, particularly the largely nonunion
turkey industry.

"This (victory) is huge, because there is such cross pollination in other Latino
communities," said Bernie Hesse, an organizer with Local 789.

Minnesota Beef largely employs Spanish-speaking immigrants. The same is true of
Dakota Premium Foods, a South St. Paul meatpacking plant organized by Local 789
in 2000.

The union, however, has so far failed in a much larger organizing project, a
Jennie-O turkey plant in Willmar with at least 1,000 employees. Local 789 hopes
to use victories at Minnesota Beef and Dakota Premium to persuade Latino and
other immigrant workers at Jennie-O and other turkey plants to join the union.

Establishing a "beachhead" can be a useful tactic, said John Budd, a human
resources professor and labor relations expert at the University of Minnesota's
Carlson School of Management.

"Each victory you get gives you more ammunition when you go on to the next
organizing drive," he said.

Mike Hughlett can be reached at mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or at 651-228-542.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 25, 2002 Friday CITY EDITION

GEPHARDT URGES ENERGY CHANGES

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 837 words


WASHINGTON -- House Democratic Leader Dick Gephardt on Thursday proposed new tax
breaks and other incentives to hasten development of fuel cells and
"environmentally smart" energy sources and end the nation's dependence on
foreign oil. "The development of alternative energy has the potential to be
America's largest growth market and job producer in the next 10 years,"
Gephardt, D-Mo., said in a speech that laid out measures aimed at long-term
economic growth. In remarks to the Democratic Leadership Council, Gephardt
touched only briefly on the tax debate. He renewed his criticism of the tax cuts
that President Bush won from Congress a year ago, but unlike some Democrats,
called for no immediate changes. "It's my view that we shouldn't be
reconsidering tax cuts in the middle of a recession," he said.

Trafficking victims may get visas

WASHINGTON -- Attorney General John Ashcroft approved new rules Thursday
creating special immigration visas for people smuggled into the United States
and forced into prostitution, domestic service or farm labor. These "T-visas,"
created under a federal law passed in 2000, will allow victims to remain in the
United States if they can persuade immigration authorities they would face
"extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm" if returned to their native
countries. Ashcroft has said the Justice Department would make the fight against
human trafficking a top priority.

China softens Taiwan stance

BEIJING -- China an-nounced a significant softening of its policy toward Taiwan
on Thursday and pledged $150 million to the effort to rebuild Afghanistan, moves
aimed at underscoring its desire for good ties with Washington before President
Bush visits next month. The most significant of Thursday's developments was a
statement by Qian Qichen, China's top foreign policy official, inviting members
of Taiwan's governing Democratic Progressive Party to visit China and calling
for renewed dialogue and stronger economic ties across the Taiwan Strait.

Utility reaches cleanup settlement

WASHINGTON -- The government and a New Jersey utility reached a settlement
Thursday in which the company agreed to pay $1.4 million in penalties and spend
more than $340 million to reduce air pollutants from two power plants by tens of
thousands of tons annually. The settlement requires Public Service Enterprise
Group Fossil LLC to install new pollution controls to curb sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxide emissions from coal-fired plants in Jersey City and Hamilton.

Saudis want women to wear abayas

DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -- Saudi officials warned Thursday they would not
allow U.S. servicewomen to go around without a head-to-toe robe, and criticized
Washington for lifting the requirement that its female troops wear the garment.
A member of the Committee for the Preservation of Virtue and the Prevention of
Vice, a government agency for enforcing Islamic law, said all women must wear
the robe, or "abaya" in Arabic, irrespective of religion, nationality or
profession. Gen. Tommy Franks, head of the U.S. Central Command, issued an order
last week saying the abaya is no longer required for U.S. servicewomen in Saudi
Arabia "but is strongly encouraged." A Saudi military official said the United
States should have consulted the kingdom beforehand.

N.J. mayor faces bribery charges

PATERSON, N.J. -- The mayor of New Jersey's third-largest city was indicted on
federal bribery charges Thursday for allegedly accepting cash and lavish gifts
from companies doing municipal business. The 40 charges against Paterson Mayor
Martin Barnes include extortion, fraud, filing false tax returns, lying to
federal agents and witness tampering. Barnes, 53, denied any wrongdoing and will
remain in office.

Man executed for killing cop

JACKSON, Ga. -- A 62-year-old man was executed by injection Thursday for killing
an off-duty Columbus police officer during a robbery in 1976. In his final
statement, Ronald Spivey apologized to the families of the victim but criticized
the death penalty, saying he had become a different man in prison. Spivey was
sentenced to death for the murder of officer Bill Watson on Dec. 28, 1976.
Watson, working as a security guard, interrupted a robbery at a bar and was shot
twice.

First lady talks to Senate panel

WASHINGTON -- First lady Laura Bush testified before the Senate Education
Committee on Thursday on early childhood learning. "The years between diapers
and the first backpacks" will determine whether a child will succeed in school
and make it to college, Bush told the panel. The hearing was a return
en-gagement for Bush. Her testimony in the same Capitol Hill caucus room on
Sept. 11 was abruptly called off, and Secret Service agents rushed her to a
bunker instead. Since that day, "I have seen the faces of children who were
directly affected by the attacks," Bush said. "As a result, I am doubly
committed to using my voice to help give our youngest Americans a real chance to
succeed."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 27, 2002 Sunday

Sniper suspect was detained by INS in 2001

BYLINE: ALFONSO CHARDY, MARIKA LYNCH and LARRY LEBOWITZ Knight Ridder News
Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 518 words


MIAMI -- One of the two men charged with murder in the Washington, D.C.-area
sniper slayings was detained for hours at Miami International Airport in April
2001 because immigration inspectors suspected he was trying to smuggle two
undocumented Jamaican women into the country, a U.S. government official said
Saturday.

John Allen Muhammad was fleeing authorities in Antigua, where police suspected
he might be involved in human smuggling and making fraudulent documents.

The April 14, 2001, airport episode took place when inspectors stopped Muhammad,
whom they thought was using false documents and trying to help his traveling
companions -- two Jamaican women -- enter the country, also with fake documents.

The three were detained while Immigration and Naturalization Service
investigators checked their stories. INS officials eventually concluded that
Muhammad was a U.S. citizen, and he was cleared to enter the country. The women
were deported.

Though Muhammad was allowed to leave, the U.S. official said, INS investigators
wanted to pursue a case of alien smuggling or document fraud against him and
referred the issue to the U.S. attorney's office.

However, no charges were filed because immigration officials and prosecutors
concluded there was not enough evidence, the official said.

Muhammad's stop in Miami last year came as he returned from Antigua, where he
apparently had met John Lee Malvo, the 17-year-old Jamaican also charged in the
sniper attacks. Malvo followed Muhammad into the United States about two months
after the airport incident, arriving with his mother aboard a cargo ship that
carried several undocumented immigrants.

Eventually, Malvo made his way to Bellingham, Wash., where he resumed his
friendship with Muhammad.

Before Bellingham, however, Muhammad had lived in Antigua with his three
children, trying to escape from marital problems in the United States.

Muhammad, 41, and Malvo were charged Friday in Maryland with multiple counts of
first-degree murder in the sniper shootings. Ten people died in the attacks
since Oct. 2.

In related developments:

* Federal agents arrested a man whom they believe is the co-owner of the
Chevrolet Caprice the defendants used. Nathaniel Osbourne, 26, of Camden, N.J.,
was being held in Flint, Mich., as a material witness and was not considered a
suspect in the shootings.

* Investigators are exploring whether Muhammad should be a suspect in the Feb.
16 murder of Keenya Cook, 21, who was shot at her aunt's home in Tacoma. Cook's
aunt worked as bookkeeper for the car-repair business that Muhammad and his
then-wife Mildred ran in the 1990s.

* Montgomery, Ala., Police Chief John Wilson said officers who responded to a
Sept. 21 liquor store robbery have identified Muhammad as a man who was standing
over two women shot in the incident. One of the victims died. A fingerprint
found at the scene led sniper investigators to Muhammad and Malvo.

The Associated Press and Washington Post contributed to this report.

Twenty-three days of terror.

Frustrations, failures of John Allen Muhammad.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 17, 2003 Tuesday CITY EDITION

ALLEGED RINGLEADER OF SMUGGLING CELL ARRESTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 189 words


HOUSTON -- Authorities said Monday they have arrested the ringleader of the
immigrant smuggling operation that ended in the deaths of 19 people crammed into
a stifling trailer.

Prosecutors unsealed an indictment accusing 25-year-old Karla Patricia Chavez
and 13 others of having roles in the trip that ended May 14 when the crowded
trailer was found abandoned at a truck stop in Victoria, 100 miles southwest of
Houston.

Seventeen immigrants died at the scene, and two others died later in what became
the nation's deadliest smuggling attempt.

"People who smuggle human beings have thought that nobody really cares about
this. Well, people really do care about this," said U.S. Attorney Michael
Shelby.

Chavez, a legal resident of the United States, was arrested Friday trying to
enter Guatemala from her native Honduras. She was deported to the United States
on Saturday and faces a bail hearing on Thursday.

Chavez is accused of leading a smuggling cell that was in charge of three other
rings involved in the operation.

Nine suspects, including the driver, were in custody Monday, while five remained
at large.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 19, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

GROUP SLAMS U.S. TREATMENT OF CHILD REFUGEES

BYLINE: RICARDO ALONSO-ZALDIVAR, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 343 words


WASHINGTON -- Amnesty International on Wednesday accused the United States of
locking up unaccompanied refugee children under jailhouse conditions that
violate standards for the treatment of people fleeing persecution.

In a report based on a survey of detention centers, visits to facilities and
interviews with detainees and lawyers, the human rights group charged that
hundreds of young refugees, mostly teenagers, are treated like criminals
although they have broken no laws.

Amnesty said refugees were often mingled with juvenile offenders, and many were
subjected to such harsh measures as shackling, strip searches and solitary
confinement. The government frequently failed to provide social services or
access to legal aid, the group said.

The number of unaccompanied minors detained after seeking to enter the United
States claiming persecution or mistreatment in their home countries has more
than doubled in recent years, reaching 5,385 in 2001.

"On any given day, it is estimated that 500 children are held in U.S.
immigration detention," the report said.

The refugees can be held in shelters or in secure facilities, and Amnesty said
about one-third are in detention centers designed for juvenile offenders.

After years of government efforts to improve conditions, the Bush administration
is determined to carry out changes, said Wade Horn, assistant Health and Human
Services secretary for children and families.

HHS inherited the refugee children program from immigration authorities March 1,
after Congress decided a social service agency was better suited for the task
than was law enforcement.

Amnesty's investigation was carried out before the transfer to HHS, but the
human rights group said many of the same detention facilities and policies are
still in use.

Horn said HHS has reduced the number of children in secure facilities, increased
the number of shelter and foster care beds for them, reduced the proportion of
children in secure facilities and is expanding a list of lawyers who can help
the refugees.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       August 1, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

THE SHELTER IS THE STORM
A SHAKY BUT WELL-RESEARCHED STUDY EXPOSES CIVIL- AND HUMAN-RIGHTS ABUSES IN
AMERICAN IMMIGRATION COURTS AND DETENTION CENTERS.

BYLINE: ALISA ROTH, Newsday

SECTION: SHOWTIME; Pg. E13

LENGTH: 1002 words


Tony Ebibillo had been detained for a year, charged only with overstaying his
visa. During much of that time, he was held in solitary confinement, subjected
to verbal abuse by guards and denied access to a phone and writing materials.

Summoned to the infirmary one day, Ebibillo was strapped facedown on a bed and
repeatedly injected with thorazine, ativan and other sedatives. When he regained
consciousness, he was in the back of a van, handcuffed, shackled and
strait-jacketed, his mouth taped shut. Witnesses later reported that any move by
the prisoner would prompt a guard to elbow Ebibillo in the ribs hard enough to
knock the wind out of him and make his eyes roll upward.

It sounds disturbingly similar to reports coming out of Iraq and Cuba. But this
scene took place in the early 1990s, far closer to home. Ebibillo was a Nigerian
asylum-seeker, held in a detention center near Miami. His abusers were officials
from the mmigration and Naturalization Service attempting to deport him. (An
American Airlines pilot refused to carry the struggling Ebibillo, and the NS
eventually had to charter a plane to send Ebibillo and others to Nigeria.)

Ebibillo's is only one of many such cases reported in "American Gulag: Inside
U.S. Immigration Prisons" by Mark Dow, a book that sets out to show that prison
abuse, indefinite detention and secret trials have been around since well before
Sept. 11. Dow argues that such treatment has long been standard practice in the
secretive parallel justice system that rules immigration courts and detention
centers.

Readers may be shocked to learn that as noncitizens, asylum-seekers and
immigrants have no constitutional right to an attorney. (They are, of course,
permitted to hire one at their own expense.) Immigration and asylum hearings
are, with rare exceptions, closed to the public. There is no jury; a single
judge makes the final determination. And although a recent Supreme Court ruling
limited detention of immigrants awaiting deportation to six months, indefinite
detentions are commonplace.

Meanwhile, 20,000 immigrant detainees -- a number officials expect to rise
drastically in coming years -- are housed in what Dow calls a "gulag" of INS
(now Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE) detention facilities, state
prisons and local jails scattered across the country. Most are held for minor
visa infractions or overstayed deportations; in some instances, legal permanent
residents are detained for past drug charges. Despite their status as
"administrative detainees," immigrants are often housed side by side with common
criminals.

THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE KROME

Dow's interest in the immigrant justice system grew out of his experiences as a
GED teacher at Krome North Service Processing Center, an obliquely named
detention center near Miami, "where the despair and frustration of the prisoners
... were unmistakable." The book is based on 10 years of research and interviews
with detainees, jailers, whistleblowers and immigration officials. His research
is exhaustive and sometimes exhausting. A confusing stream of characters,
including detainees, their advocates and their keepers comes and goes, and the
book often feels more like a collection of well-kept interview notes than a
coherent story.

Dow has plenty of anecdotes, statistics and even insight to support his thesis,
but he lacks a logical framework in which to present them.

Nonetheless, the stories he tells make for a stunning indictment of a system
that has until now largely avoided public scrutiny. It is horrifying to read
stories of people like Mohammed Bachir, a stateless Palestinian who served two
years in a state prison for abducting his own child and stalking his American
wife. But rather than being released, he was sent to an INS contract facility in
Alabama to await deportation.

His stateless status meant there was nowhere to deport him to, and he ended up
being held in INS custody for nearly five years. Bachir chose not to take his
detention quietly and instead conducted "four years of hunger strikes, one after
another, forcing jail officials and INS officials to make special arrangements
for him, and irrepressible attempts to organize his fellow detainees and break
through the secrecy of the INS detention world."

Such behavior made Bachir the kind of prisoner whom the "authorities kept trying
to get rid of ... without setting him free," by transferring him, often without
notice, from one prison to another around the country. (Bachir was eventually
released, although he was redetained on a minor infraction soon after. After
serving several more months, he was finally released for good.)

GUARDED TESTIMONY

But the book does not rely solely on the testimony of prisoners. It clearly
makes a point when Edward Calejo, a former guard at the Krome prison who was
convicted of beating a Haitian detainee, tells Dow: "If they really wanted to
punish me, they would have stuck me in Krome for six months."

Former nurses at an INS contract facility support detainees' claims of forced
sedation and withholding of medical treatment.

Joseph Greene, then-INS district director in Colorado, offers insight into the
system's mindset when he explains that he can't release an undeportable
convicted murderer (who's already served his time for murder) because his
"biggest nightmare ... is reading in the newspaper that a guy that released has
killed somebody."

Dow clearly has a deep understanding of his topic -- not easy, since even
immigration attorneys admit that immigration law is one of the most arcane and
difficult areas of the U.S. legal system. Sadly, he is less skilled at
sustaining a narrative.

Still, very little has been written about the powerful and unaccountable
immigration bureaucracy, and Dow's efforts to expose its civil and human rights
abuses should be applauded.

Title: "American Gulag: Inside U.S. Immigration Prisons"

Author: Mark Dow

Publisher: University of California Press

Cost: $27.50

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 Photos: Knight Ridder Tribune

1)"Tranquilo, que ya llegaste!" "Stay calm, you made it") says a beachgoer to a
Cuban rafter who just made it to shore in Miami. The rafter was taken to the
Krome detention center.

2)Ebrahim Nesiredin Ali, held in custody at Krome, claims to have fled torture
in his native Ethiopia.

3)Ali attends Friday prayer service at Krome with other Muslim detainees.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 4, 2000 Wednesday CITY EDITION

CONGRESS OKS HIGH-TECH VISA INCREASE;
VOTE ALLOWS MORE FOREIGN WORKERS IN

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The high-tech industry won another of its top legislative priorities Tuesday
after Congress overwhelmingly voted to nearly double the number of visas for
highly skilled foreign workers.

The Senate passed the bill on a 96-1 vote, and the House followed with voice
vote passage several hours later, abandoning a version of its own that met
serious opposition from the technology industry. President Clinton has said he
will sign the measure.

Labor unions and the largest U.S. engineers group were not pleased.

The action on legislation that had been stalled for months showed Republicans
and Democrats were eager to deliver for the high-tech industry before Congress
adjourns later this month.

"We have strong bipartisan agreement on it, and this is a very, very important
skilled work force bill that we'll be able to provide to the president for his
signature," Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., said Tuesday.

Faced with what high-tech executives said is a widespread shortage of qualified
computer programmers and engineers, Silicon Valley has pressed hard to again
temporarily increase the number of three-year H-1B visas in order to bring in
those workers from countries such as India.

"It's very important because at the end of the day it's people who are driving
the Internet economy, not machines," said Laura Ipsen, director of government
affairs for Cisco. "We need more and more highly skilled engineers in the
company. We can't fill all the positions."

The legislation boosts the allotment from 115,000 this year to 195,000 in each
of the next three years.

Labor unions and the nation's largest organization for engineers charged the
high-tech industry prefers foreign workers, who are beholden to the companies
who obtained their visas, over retraining American engineers from other fields.
The H-1B visa program also has been criticized for being rife with fraud.

"This whole thing is just the wrong way to go," said Paul Donnelly of the
Immigration Reform Coalition, which includes the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers-USA. The coalition favors green cards to bring foreign
workers into the country permanently, arguing the temporary H-1B visas keep
salaries low because the workers aren't free to easily move to other companies.

H-1B visas allow foreigners with special skills to work temporarily in the
United States. The visa, which is applied for by the company seeking to employ
the person, is good for three years and can be renewed for an additional three
years. Congress and the White House in 1998 agreed to a temporary expansion of
the program, more than doubling the annual allotment of visas to about 115,000.
But with the new economy continuing to boom, those visas have proven
insufficient to meet the demand. All of this year's visas were allocated by the
end of March - six months before the end of the fiscal year.

With the annual allotment set to start decreasing next year, the high-tech
industry has desperately pleaded with Congress and the White House to
temporarily boost the number again. Senators said Tuesday they heeded the call.

"This bill represents our commitment to keep America on top in the high-tech
industry," said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, one of the key backers of the
legislation.

In addition to boosting the annual allotment of visas, the legislation will
funnel more of the annual $500 visa fee to education and training for Americans
in science and technology fields under changes in the bill proposed by Sen.
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.

"I support lifting the H-1B visa cap, but clearly it is only a short-term
solution to a long-term problem," said Feinstein, who is recovering in
California from surgery on her broken leg and was among three senators who did
not vote on the bill. The amendments, along with others, would funnel about $176
million into education and retraining initiatives.

Another Feinstein provision would try to reduce the processing backlog at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The agency would devote more resources
to processing applications and be required to process H-1B visas within 30 days,
and process permanent employment visas and other visa applications within six
months.

Both bills pending in the House of Representatives would have doubled the fee
companies pay for each visa to $1,000, to provide even more money for training
and education. Although many in the Senate favor increasing the fees, the Senate
could not constitutionally initiate an increase in taxes or fees.

But the easiest way for Congress to get an H-1B visa bill to the president this
year was for the House to simply vote on the Senate bill. Dreier is
co-sponsoring a separate bill to increase the fees that he is optimistic will
pass Congress in the coming days as well.

DETAILS

The high-tech visa bill passed by Congress would:

Raise the number of new six-year H-1B visas that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service can issue each year to 195,000 for the next three years.

Exempt from the cap foreigners who received at least a master's degree from a
U.S. college or university, or who work for a U.S. institution of higher
education.

Extend a $500 fee for each visa.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: Associated Press
Filling the labor pool

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    February 10, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

GUEST WORKER EXPANSION;
MEXICAN PRESIDENT FOX WILL ASK FOR CHANGES IN THE 'GUEST WORKER' PROGRAM,
ALLOWING MORE MEXICANS TO WORK LEGALLY IN THE UNITED STATES.

BYLINE: Morris Thompson, Knight Ridder Foreign Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: SAN MIGUEL ACUEXCOMAC, MEXICO


Yet again last year, the corn grew to just 2 feet around this dusty farming
village of 1,200. So still more villagers left to live and work illegally in the
United States.

Over the last 20 years, at least half the men have gone, mostly to Los Angeles.
Money they send home has delivered electricity, schools, a clinic and running
water. But migration has sucked away the talents of this village about 100 miles
southeast of Mexico City, split many of its families and left it with an aged
and shriveled population.

When President Bush meets Mexico's President Vicente Fox at Fox's ranch on Feb.
16, Fox will push hard to improve life for migrants and their families - and
villagers here - via an expanded "guest worker" program. It would allow Mexicans
to earn legal wages in the United States, save costly smugglers' fees and be
freed from the furtive existence of illegal emigrants.

The U.S. government, Fox will argue, could save much of the nearly $1 billion a
year it spends on border control. Thousands of U.S. employers could stop lying
about who works for them and start paying employment taxes and benefits.

Between 2 million and 8 million Mexicans are estimated to be working illegally
in the United States, and up to 400,000 a year are believed to be going and
staying. Fox argues that if those people could go and come freely, they'd bring
more of their capital and talents back to Mexico.

Agricultural workers can now enter the United States legally for seasonal work
if a U.S. employer certifies that it can't find Americans to do the job,
Americans won't be displaced and the emigrant workers will get housing and
prevailing wages. Fox is likely to propose something similar, bigger, easier to
enroll in and that would expand to include skilled trades such as construction.

Last year, the United States issued only about 58,000 visas under such
arrangements. About half of the 1.6 million U.S. agricultural workers are
undocumented aliens, mostly from Mexico, the U.S. government estimates. Another
visa program, for highly educated workers, doesn't apply to most Mexicans.

Some U.S. senators, including Phil Gramm, R-Texas, favor expanding guest worker
programs but haven't said precisely how. The AFL-CIO, which has called for
improving undocumented workers' status and giving them competitive wages and
benefits, generally favors guest worker programs. But the 800,000-member
Laborers' International Union, a member of the AFL-CIO, opposes them as
inherently "treating workers differently based on national origin" in ways that
could "depress wages and deny benefits," said Laborers' spokesman Zack Matus.

An earlier so-called "bracero" guest worker program in place from 1940 to 1960
proved unpopular with Mexican agricultural workers, whose recruiters held their
visas, paid substandard wages and often forced them to live and work under
miserable conditions.

Undocumented Mexican workers used to return home more regularly than they do
now, but stepped-up U.S. border control efforts are deterring them, immigration
experts say. In addition, smugglers' fees have risen, and the crossings are at
more remote and dangerous sections of desert.

"People go there for the money, to get what they need for their children," said
San Miguel Mayor Bonifacio Gomez Aguilar. "Almost everyone here has someone
there. Some send 500 pesos or 1,000 pesos a month," roughly $50 to $100. "Some
send practically nothing."

Their remittances are essential in a community where the corn on small family
plots fails for lack of rain three years out of four.

Migrant contributions built a medical clinic here in 1985, the elementary school
in 1991, the junior high in 1995, a high school last year. They paid to run
electricity into the town in 1989 and for a water system in 1996. Twenty years
ago, says Filemon Hierro, 42, president of the auxiliary board, the village's
formal self-help group, most houses here were thatched palm. Now they are
concrete or brick.

The price of illegal border crossings also has changed. When Hierro spent a
decade following the harvests around Salinas, San Jose and Fresno, Calif.,
starting in 1977, the trip cost mostly the bus fare from Puebla, he said.

But eight months ago, when Ecliserio Pacheco Osorio, 38, went to Los Angeles,
the smugglers charged more than $1,500, said his bedridden father, Roberto
Pacheco Campos, 76. And his son hasn't sent any money yet to take care of his
parents, wife and four children.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: KNIGHT RIDDER PHOTOS BY LUIS J. JIMENEZ
1) Lucila Osorio, 76, weaves a sleeping mat from palm fronds gathered
in the mountains of rural Puebla state. She weaves the mats in her
home in the village of San Miguel Acuexcomac, Mexico, to earn money to
buy corn and beans. Each mat takes a week to make and sells for about
$2.50.
2) Filemon Hierro, 42, is the vice mayor of San Miguel Acuexcomac,
Mexico. He collected money from fellow villagers, working in the
United States, to refurbish the pueblo's 17th century church. Hierro
works with his brother in a butcher shop in California and returns to
his pueblo each year for about three months.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

              January 16, 2002 Wednesday WASHINGTON COUNTY EDITION

WASHINGTON COUNTY BRIEFING

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 819 words


Tinklenberg to talk about new bridge

Minnesota Department of Transportation Commissioner Elwyn Tinklenberg will speak
next week at an informational meeting on the Stillwater bridge.

The Greater Stillwater Chamber of Commerce is holding the meeting from 7 to 8
a.m. Jan. 22 at the St. Croix Valley Recreation Center, 1675 Market Drive,
Stillwater.

Rep. Mark Holsten, R-Stillwater, will facilitate the meeting. "I've asked
(Commissioner Tinklenberg) to come and give us an update on where we are with
the bridge and what we need to do to move forward with this project," Holsten
said.

For more information, call the Greater Stillwater Chamber of Commerce at (651)
439-4001.

-- Mary Divine

FOREST LAKE

Shop fined for improper hiring

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has fined a Forest Lake company and
its chief executive officer $19,215 for hiring unauthorized foreign workers and
failing to keep proper employment records.

Wood Design Inc. and CEO Greg Swirtz face four administrative counts. The firm
also must work with the INS on education and training to improve hiring
practices and paperwork.

"We're cooperating with them fully 100 percent," Swirtz said Tuesday.

The fine stems from the arrest of 19 employees on Nov. 26 at the Wood Design
shop, 908 S.W. 15th St. The 15-month investigation began when routine jail
interviews showed Wood Design employed an undocumented worker.

Most fines tend to be under $10,000, so this is substantial, said INS spokesman
Tim Counts.

Eleven illegal workers from the same company were arrested and deported in 1995,
although the company was not fined or charged in that incident.

-- Amy Becker

STILLWATER

Talk set on artifacts at church site

Dave Labno, St. Croix Valley historian and amateur archaeologist, will speak at
7 p.m. Feb. 5 on recent finds at the construction site at St. Michael's Catholic
Church in Stillwater.

Various sites, including the former rectory privy, a cistern and trash pits from
neighboring houses, were excavated as part of the construction project at the
church.

Labno will talk about the hundreds of artifacts found at the site and place the
items in historical context.

The public is welcome to attend the event, which is sponsored by St. Michael's
and the Washington County Historical Society. For more information, call (651)
439-4400.

-- Mary Divine

ST. CROIX RIVER VALLEY

Families, youth need volunteer mentors

In honor of the first annual National Mentoring Month, Community Volunteer
Services is looking for people to mentor young people and families in the St.
Croix River Valley.

Young people who have mentors have a better chance of succeeding and are more
likely to make positive choices, said Mary Rivard, volunteer center program
manager for Community Volunteer Services.

Organizations in the St. Croix Valley area that are in need of youth one-to-one
mentors and group activity mentors include Big Brothers/Big Sisters; Camp Fire
Boys and Girls; Girl Scouts of St. Croix Valley and Friendly Valley; Junior
Achievement; YMCA; Positive Alternatives -- Teen Care Program; St. Croix Area
Boy Scouts, Washington County 4-H Program, and the Youth Service Bureaus in
Forest Lake, Cottage Grove, Stillwater and Woodbury.

Organizations in the St. Croix Valley area that are in need of family mentors
include the following: Community Volunteer Service, Neighborhood Service
Exchange; East Metro Women's Council; Episcopal Community Service Family
Resource Center; Family Violence Network; Salvation Army's Project
Break-Through, and the Saint Croix Family Resource Center.

To find out about ways to mentor young people and families in the St. Croix
Valley area, call Community Volunteer Services at (651) 439-7434 or
1-877-865-7378 or visit the organization's Web site at www. volunteercvs.org.

-- Mary Divine

STILLWATER

Sign up for dinner at Historical Society

Doug Ohman, photographer and church historian, will speak next month at the
Washington County Historical Society's annual dinner meeting.

The dinner will be at 6:30 p.m. Feb. 7 at the Stillwater Area VFW.

Cost of the dinner and program is $12.50 for Washington County Historical
Society members and $15 for non-members, payable at the door.

Ohman has spent several years photographing and documenting churches throughout
Minnesota.

"Of all the buildings in Minnesota, the church speaks to people more than any
other building," Ohman says.

The doors will open at 5 p.m. for those who want to come early to bid on silent
auction items such as A.B. Easton's two-volume "History of the St. Croix
Valley," John Runk photographs and a Vikings shirt autographed by Daunte
Culpepper.

The event is open to the public, but reservations must be made by Feb. 4. For
more information, call (651) 439-5856 or (651) 433-4014 or visit the society's
Web site at www.wchsmn.org.

-- Mary Divine

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 14, 2003 Monday CITY EDITION

POETRY AND POLITICS RIPPLE THROUGH A DREAM

BYLINE: MASON RIDDLE, Special to the Pioneer Press

SECTION: EXPRESS; ART; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 801 words


For those who pay attention, the summer solstice is a magical day when the light
is felt on the back of the eyes and extends deep into our interior. Of all the
days, it is the most luminous marker of time, a day when the ancient rites of
dancing, feasting and honoring are as old and diverse as human culture itself.
The summer solstice is a day of ritual, if anything.

It was only fitting, then, that Lourdes Cue's exhibition "Das lquidos (Liquid
Days)," with its metaphoric references to water, memory and her rich cultural
ancestry, opened to the public on the longest day of the year.

Cue's contemplative exhibition actually consists of two parts: "Das lquidos," a
video installation with sculptural components, and "Mar de historia/Historias de
mar (Sea of Stories/Stories of the Sea)," the thematically related main gallery
installation. Together, the two parts reveal Cue's current political interests
in migrant workers, crossing borders, identity and globalism, as well as her
poetic fascination with time, travel, memory and the textural and symbolic
quality of the materials that she uses.

"The work asks, am I a migrant worker, or am I an immigrant?" Cue says. "Do we
see Mexican migrant workers as only the products they produce?"

"A lot of ideas I am trying to weave into my work," Cue explains. "The show
raises a lot of questions of who I am. Who am I when I move into another
culture, as I did when I moved to Minnesota?"

The first part of the exhibition consists of a large-screen video projection of
flowing water, taken of various creeks and rivers in the Twin Cities area that
empty into the Mississippi. Glass bottles, often encasing a small paper boat
made from the leaf of a book, bob on the water's surface. Light jumps and
shimmers off the water, and the whole is supported by recorded sounds of the
Pacific Ocean. Bread pans lined with mirrors and filled with water form a row on
the floor beneath. In front of the video is a large paper boat, also made from
book pages, that rests on a sea of sand.

A few paces away, "Mar de historia/Historias de mar" consumes the large main
gallery space. The work consists of three hanging fishing nets that contain
glass bottles holding small boats made from many book pages. Beneath the nets on
the floor are seven "islands," groups of feet made from burlap sacks, titled
"Islas errantes (Wandering islands)." Cue has molded the feet from her own and
stenciled them with traces of bar codes, serial numbers, the names of products
and the words "hecho en Mexico (made in Mexico)," all signs, for Cue, of our
relationship as Americans to her native country. Scattered across the "islands"
are small dead fish, whose smell has now successfully permeated the gallery.

Cue came to the Twin Cities to learn English and graduated with a degree from
the Minneapolis College of Art and Design in 1982. She returned in 1992 with her
husband, Jay Miskowiec, a writer, translator of Spanish language texts and book
publisher.

Like many artists and writers of the past two decades, Cue has been both seduced
and influenced by the complexity of image and information found in the writings
of such Latin American writers as Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Jorge Luis Borges,
Alvaro Mutis and journalist Eduardo Garcia Aquilar. The texture of their tales
is a quality she hopes to impart to her work.

And, largely, she succeeds. Although enigmatic, the installation, in its
repetitiveness of materials and objects, produces a ritualistic quality, one
often associated with the magic realism of writers such as Marquez and Borges.

"I don't create objects, I create spaces," Cue says. "I mix the old with a new
reality."

"Das lquidos" brings to mind the circular tales of Borges, one of which,
"Museum," Cue talked about one night during a conversation in her studio. In
that story, a man sets out to draw the world and ultimately discovers that he is
really mapping the lines of his own face. She explains that her work is really a
drawing of her life.

Her comments bring to mind another, perhaps equally appropriate Borges story,
"The Circular Ruins." Here, a man realizes, with the onset of a huge fire that
will destroy everything, that "what had happened many centuries before was
repeating itself ... with relief, with humiliation, with terror, he understood
that he also was an illusion, that someone was dreaming him."

Enigmatic but associative, "Das lquidos" is the artist's physical dream of the
lives and experiences of others; Cue is dreaming them into existence.

Mason Riddle is a Twin Cities freelance writer.

-- What: "Dias liquidos"

-- Artist: Lourdes Cue

-- When: Noon- 5 p.m. Wednesday-Saturday or by appointment, through Aug. 9

-- Where: Franklin Art Works, 1021 Franklin Ave. E., Mpls.

-- Call: 612-872-7494

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 PHOTOS

1)RICHARD MARSHALL, PIONEER PRESS

Artist Lourdes Cue of Minneapolis has a one-woman show at the Franklin Art Works
through Aug. 9.

2)Petronella Ytsma

The "islands" in Lourdes Cue's are modeled from her own feet.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 21, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

IMPACT PLAYER
HE WANTS 'OFFSHORING' TO TASTE BAD

BYLINE: The Denver Post

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 304 words


Richard Armstrong has a loud mouth, and he couldn't be happier about it.

A Denver computer programmer, Armstrong has been laid off three times and each
time replaced by foreign workers.

Outraged that U.S. companies move jobs to such countries as India and China,
Armstrong started organizing.

Now, 100,000 people are writing members of Congress, urging them to do something
to stem the tide of exported jobs.

"I feel like it's finally working," said Armstrong, who relies on e-mail and his
Web site, HireAmericanCitizens.org, to recruit members and partner with 30 other
similar organizations.

Beating the drum of the jobless, they've turned the issue of "offshoring" into a
political hot button in statehouses, Congress and in the upcoming presidential
election.

Corporate executives, meanwhile, fear the stumping by politicians will lead to
knee-jerk protectionist legislation penalizing companies that use offshore
workers.

"Companies are very concerned that election-year politics will seize control and
shape this debate," said Jeff Lande, spokesman for the Information Technology
Association of America. His group is lobbying Congress aggressively on the issue
for such companies as Microsoft Corp. and IBM, both of which use offshore
workers.

Armstrong thinks the government should change or ax the H-1B and L-1 temporary
worker visa programs that he says are abused by companies and ultimately used to
send more jobs overseas. Companies have hired foreigners on H-1B visas, trained
them and sent them back to their homelands to run offshore operations.

At the very least, Armstrong said, the number of visas given to foreigners
should be tied to the unemployment rate.

"I think we should make it taste bad for companies to go offshore," he said. "I
think we're getting the message out."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      March 20, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

FIRMS PUSH FOR WORK VISAS

BYLINE: JUDY HOLLAND, Hearst Newspapers

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 582 words


WASHINGTON -- At a time when Congress is concerned about the transfer of
American jobs overseas, high-tech companies are lobbying to persuade the
lawmakers to allow more U.S.-trained foreigners with master's degrees and PhDs
to work in this country.

U.S. companies that hope to hire some of these highly educated foreign workers
are pressing their case on Capitol Hill because they say there is a shortage of
American workers with advanced degrees in engineering and physics to help with
research and development.

But John Steadman, president of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers-USA, which represents 225,000 high-tech workers, primarily electrical
engineers and computer scientists, disagreed and contended that there is no
shortage of Americans with advanced degrees seeking jobs.

"We have a large number of young Americans who are graduating and are finding
difficulty obtaining employment in their field," Steadman said.

Employers are trying to hire foreign workers because they are cheaper, he said.

"People from India and China are certainly willing to accept employment at lower
wages than is the prevailing wage for U.S. citizens taking those jobs," he said.

Adding to the employers' sense of urgency is the fact that the current U.S.
program allowing a limited number of foreign high-tech workers to enter the
United States with H1-B visas reached its annual limit of 65,000 workers last
month. Holders of those visas can stay in the United States for up to six years.

It appears unlikely that Congress would respond to employer requests and raise
the cap on H1-B workers as it has in the past because the weak economy and job
losses have made such a move politically hazardous.

As a way around that obstacle, high-tech companies are pressing to exempt the
most highly educated students at U.S. universities from the 65,000-cap on
foreign workers.

"We should never be shutting our doors on graduates with masters and PhDs," said
Sandy Boyd, a vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers and
chair of Compete America, a coalition of more than 200 companies, trade
associations and universities.

Boyd said companies that recruit workers at American universities are forced to
bypass half of the students with masters' degrees in math, science and
engineering because they are foreigners.

"Basically we're telling American companies that they can't have access to those
graduates from our schools who we've supported and spent research dollars on,"
Boyd said. "In reality, it means those folks with masters and PhDs in math,
science and engineering will be competing against us."

More than 20,000 foreign students with advanced degrees from U.S. schools are
now off limits because of the H1-B cap according to Lynn Shotwell, legal counsel
for the American Council on International Personnel, which represents
multinational companies, research institutions and universities.

Boyd said there is a shortage of Americans with advanced degrees in hi-tech
fields.

"This is a very small, selective group of individuals who have very specialized
skill sets," she said. "These are the folks that are most in demand," she said,
referring to electrical, industrial design, quality, chemical and software
engineers.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, a member of the House immigration subcommittee, said
it would be "very difficult to increase immigration in a political year and when
people are so concerned about losing jobs."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    July 20, 2004 Tuesday WISCONSIN EDITION

OFFICIAL WANTS TOURISM JOBS FOR JOBLESS
MANY RESORTS NOW HIRE FOREIGN COLLEGE STUDENTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 467 words


MADISON, Wis. -- Wisconsin's tourism secretary wants to start a new effort to
promote the state's seasonal tourism jobs to its unemployed workers.

Jim Holperin said he has no indication that theme parks and other popular
destinations are intentionally passing over Wisconsin workers. But he said the
state lacks a comprehensive strategy for matching jobless to tourism jobs, which
often go to workers from Poland, Finland or other foreign countries.

A program is in its early stage of discussion, Holperin said.

The state's tourism industry started recruiting foreign workers -- typically
college students -- in the late 1990s, when the low unemployment rate created a
labor shortage.

The economy has gone bad since then, but many destinations continue hiring from
out of the country for their summer seasonal help.

Holperin said not everyone who needs a job is being reached by existing
programs.

For example, a state job center in Wisconsin Dells has stopped sending
representatives to job fairs in Milwaukee, relying on the Internet to reach job
seekers instead.

But some in the industry say market forces have caused the jobs to go to foreign
workers. Residents in areas of high unemployment rates are not willing to move
for the summer jobs, they say, and many young people must return to school
before the tourist season ends.

Some also say residents don't seem to be interested in drudgery jobs such as
scrubbing bathrooms and arranging bed sheets.

"Even in desperate times, they don't want to do housekeeping," said Joanne
Stanzel, personnel director at Landmark Resort in Door County. "It's sad to
say."

She has hired several college-aged students from Armenia and Romania for such
jobs.

Tom Diehl, president of Tommy Bartlett Inc., said he hired about 70 young people
from Finland this summer to work at the company's famous water shows and other
attractions at Wisconsin Dells.

"Anybody who says they can't find a job here isn't looking very hard," he said.

Those in the industry say the tough economy has made it easier to hire locally.
In the late '90s, the unemployment rate in Wisconsin was below 3 percent,
compared with 5 percent today. There are about 70,000 more out-of-work Wisconsin
residents than five years ago.

Labor advocates question if the tourism industry has recruited heavily enough
for workers within the state.

Jim Cavanaugh, president of the Madison-based South Central Federation of Labor,
said plenty of laid-off factory workers would take the seasonal jobs to get a
regular paycheck.

Holperin said he suspects tourist businesses are afraid a tight labor market
might return and are hesitant to cut off sources of international labor.

"They are going to keep those connections," he said. "They are reluctant to give
those up."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EMPLOYMENT

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     August 21, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

FIRST CANADIAN BORDER BASE DEDICATED

BYLINE: GENE JOHNSON, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 286 words


BELLINGHAM, Wash. -- Federal officials Friday dedicated the first of five
planned bases for flights to look for drug runners and others crossing the
Canadian border illegally by air or land.

The Bellingham Air Marine Branch is to have a staff of nearly 70, two
helicopters, an airplane and a high-speed boat by year's end. Similar bases have
policed the Mexican border for three decades, but the new facility is the first
on the Canadian border.

The bases, which will dot the border from Washington state to upstate New York,
are a response to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks as well as smuggling of
illegal aliens and drugs, including British Columbia's potent strains of
marijuana.

"Smuggling is a two-way street," said Michael Milne, spokesman for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "We've got cocaine and money going north,
B.C. bud and human smuggling coming south."

A second station in Plattsburgh, N.Y., is scheduled to be operational by the end
of the year, Milne said, followed by bases near Detroit; Grand Forks, N.D.; and
Great Falls, Mont.

The Bellingham base initially has only enough money to operate flights eight
hours a day.

"Our greatest asset right now is they don't know when we're going to be
operating," said Mitch Pribble, a pilot and associate field director.

The aircraft will allow agents to track suspicious flights in cases where the
pilot doesn't report to customs or talk on the radio. Federal pilots will follow
such aircraft or direct agents on the ground.

Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., said Congress earmarked $35.2 million to get the
Bellingham station up and running.

"I feel like the northern border is finally getting its due," she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 24, 2000 Sunday CITY EDITION

CHINA'S BRUTAL DETENTION SYSTEM PUTS INNOCENT VICTIMS AT RISK

BYLINE: MICHAEL DORGAN Knight Ridder Foreign Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


This much is beyond dispute: Liu Houcheng is dead. For a full year, the young
man's body has lain frozen in a city morgue as controversy has swirled around
his mysterious demise.

His case opens a window on a little-known but corrupt and brutal detention
system that has begun to draw criticism not only from foreign-based human rights
groups but also from local Chinese officials and the Chinese press.

Several million people each year are detained under the prosaically named
"Custody and Repatriation" program, according to Human Rights in China, a New
York-based group that has released a damning 52-page report on the program.

The most frequent candidates for detention include prostitutes, street children,
disabled persons and members of the banned Falun Gong meditation movement.

But most of the targets are ordinary migrant workers, like Liu Houcheng.

His family suspects that Liu, 26, was beaten to death after he was picked up in
September 1999 in a police sweep intended to remove "undesirables" from the
streets of the capital before the Oct. 1 celebration of the 50th anniversary of
the founding of communist China.

The beating may have been provoked by Liu's attempt to negotiate a cheaper price
for a 36-cent cardboard box to sleep on at the detention center, where he and
thousands of others were held in an open area without furniture or bedding. Two
friends who were detained with Liu say he went off to haggle with a vendor
inside the center and never returned.

The next time a friend or family member saw Liu was several days later, when his
mother and sister identified his battered body at the morgue. His nose was
bloody, his face was swollen and his body was badly bruised, according to Liu's
mother, Zhang Lanying.

"I asked why there were bruises on my son's body," she said in a tearful
telephone interview from their village in Shandong province, southeast of
Beijing on China's coast. "The police said they didn't know."

The official death certificate says only that Liu's "heartbeat and breath
stopped suddenly."

Family members say they repeatedly have requested an investigation into his
death.

In order for a court to examine the case, they were told they would have to pay
$600 for a Security Bureau autopsy.

Liu, like an estimated 2 million other residents of rural China now living in
Beijing, had come to the capital to seek his fortune - or what passes for a
fortune among people who often earn less than $1 a day in their home villages.

Liu arrived in Beijing in August 1998 with a very specific goal, according to Li
Shijie, who shared a room with him and one other man. Li said Liu wanted to save
between 10,000 and 20,000 yuan ($1,200 to $2,400) so he could return home to
Ganjia Village and marry the young woman to whom he was engaged.

"He thought he could do it in two years," said Li, a 44-year-old construction
worker. "He worked every day without rest, usually for over 10 hours per day."

Li said he, Liu and another friend were rounded up along with several dozen
other people when police raided the courtyard where they lived. Not all of the
people who rented the approximately 30 rooms that encircled the courtyard were
legal residents of Beijing, he said.

But Li said all of those without the needed documents fled immediately when the
police arrived. Everyone else - including Liu and Li - stayed put, confident
they had no problems because their papers were in order.

But their papers provided no protection. Li said some of the raiding officers
simply ignored the documents; others snatched them and threw them away.

Such raids are not uncommon in areas with large numbers of migrant workers. At
the time, they were taking place daily.

But why detain people whose papers were in order and who were not doing anything
illegal?

Liu's relative said a friend who is a police officer told him many innocent
people were detained then because police had been given quotas. That could not
be confirmed, but it is not implausible. Even more sinister reasons for
detentions across China have been documented in numerous reports.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 19, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

TAPES SHOW ABUSE OF 9;
11 DETAINEES

BYLINE: DAN EGGENWashington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 275 words


WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department's inspector general said Thursday that
investigators had found more than 300 hundred prison videotapes that were not
turned over by federal prison officials during an earlier investigation and that
the tapes confirm reports of serious physical and verbal abuse of immigrants
detained after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Inspector General Glenn Fine found that "some officers slammed and bounced
detainees against the wall, twisted their arms and hands in painful ways,
stepped on their leg restraint chains and punished them by keeping them
restrained for long periods of time," according to a report released Thursday.

The report also found that jail personnel improperly taped meetings between
detainees and their lawyers and overused strip searches to punish them.

Fine's office concluded that as many as 20 guards at the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn, N.Y., were involved in the abuse and recommended discipline
or counseling for 12 who remain employed there.

Detention center officials had repeatedly told Fine's investigators that such
tapes no longer existed, and many of those interviewed earlier had denied
conduct that was confirmed on the tapes.

The report also found that many tapes remain missing and that there are
unexplained gaps in the footage, despite a requirement to keep such material for
two years.

A federal dragnet after the Sept. 11 attacks resulted in the detention of more
than 1,200 foreign nationals. Most were of Arab or South Asian descent and had
violated immigration laws in some way. None of the group was ever charged with
terrorism-related crimes.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: REBUILDING IRAQ

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 31, 2002 Thursday

6 charged in Haitian smuggling

BYLINE: BY CORALIE CARLSON; Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 310 words


MIAMI -- Six people were charged Wednesday with trying to smuggle more than 200
Haitians into the country aboard a rickety freighter as activists urged Gov. Jeb
Bush to try to prevent authorities from deporting the illegal immigrants.

The Haitians jumped overboard and swam ashore near downtown Miami after their
50-foot wooden freighter ran aground Tuesday, eight days after they left their
impoverished island.

Twenty-one had to be rescued from the 10- to 12-feet-deep water, Coast Guard Lt.
Jeffrey Smith said. Border Patrol agents rounded up 208 others, including young
children.

It wasn't clear who the six people charged were or how they were arrested.

Unlike Cubans who reach dry land, Haitian immigrants usually are denied asylum
in the United States and sent back to their homeland.

Rep. Carrie Meek, D-Fla., demanded Wednesday that Bush call his brother, the
president, and persuade him to treat the Haitians like Cuban refugees.

Bush told Meek he agrees that the Haitians should be released until their asylum
request is heard. He had said earlier that he spoke to White House officials and
was assured the Haitians would receive "fair and decent treatment."

However, White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said the president would not
get involved.

Thousands of Haitians each year risk dangerous voyages aboard rickety, crowded
boats to flee the crushing poverty in their homeland, the hemisphere's poorest
country where two-thirds of the population is unemployed or underemployed.

The Bush administration changed its detention policy on Haitian refugees in
December to discourage a feared mass exodus. Immigration attorneys sued the
government in March, saying the new policy of detention was racially biased.

About 4,000 immigrants have been interdicted at sea this year, including about
1,500 Haitians, the Coast Guard said.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 2, 2002 Saturday

CAMPAIGN TRAIL: Candidates campaign on the fly

BYLINE: BY JUDITH YATES BORGER; Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1336 words


Minnesota's candidates for governor and U.S. Senate campaigned feverishly around
the state Friday, with just four days left for campaigning before voters go to
the polls.

In the governor's race, candidates Roger Moe and Tim Penny each took aim at
Republican challenger Tim Pawlenty, who had come out on top in two polls this
week.

Speaking on Minnesota Public Radio's "Midday" show, the Independence Party's
Penny accused Pawlenty of using "tricky math" regarding Minnesota's budget.
Pawlenty wants to balance the budget -- which faces a potential two-year deficit
of $3 billion -- without raising taxes.

Penny also derided as "bogus" Pawlenty's plan to put temporary immigrants' visa
expiration dates on their driver's licenses, and he chastised Pawlenty for
referring to immigrants as "foreigners."

Penny did not mention Moe by name.

Meanwhile, Moe hammered away at one message: It's becoming a two-man race.

Moe said his strategy now is "getting people to focus on the fact it's a
two-person race, and getting people who might previously have supported the
Green Party or the Independence Party, but certainly wouldn't find the
Republican Party acceptable, to get back and help me out."

Both Moe and a spokesman for Pawlenty said Friday that internal polls indicate
Penny has lost support in recent days.

But so far, the only public evidence of slippage by Penny is a Star Tribune poll
published Wednesday. The survey, based on a single night of polling Monday,
indicated Penny's support had dipped to 19 percent, while Pawlenty and Moe were
nearly tied at 33 percent and 29 percent, respectively.

Penny denounced the Star Tribune poll as inaccurate and criticized Moe and
Pawlenty for trying to split off his supporters. "It's just spin," Penny said of
claims that his support is declining.

Moe and Penny also may have been motivated by a St. Cloud State University poll
released Thursday that showed Pawlenty with 30 percent support, Moe with 27
percent and Penny with 26 percent. But with 14 percent undecided and 2 percent
going to Green candidate Ken Pentel, victory is still very much up for grabs.

Meanwhile, Pawlenty's party used one stone to try to knock out both Penny and
Moe: a radio ad accusing Penny of being "too liberal" and Moe of being "too
radical." The ad aired just before Gov. Jesse Ventura's weekly radio program
Friday, prompting the governor to blast both the Republican and
Democratic-Farmer-Labor parties for resuming negative campaigning after the
death of Sen. Paul Wellstone.

"We're back to full-bore -- nothing but negative ads," said Ventura, who is
backing Penny in the gubernatorial race.

The same ad ran before and during Penny's appearance on WCCO's Kim Jeffries
call-in show. Penny came back after the advertisement with guns blazing for
Pawlenty, reminding listeners that the state Campaign Finance and Public
Disclosure Board had fined the Pawlenty campaign and the Republican Party for
illegally coordinating on two TV ads.

Pawlenty on Friday touted the GOP as the party of the future.

"This is not an election about the ideas of 30 to 40 years ago," he said. He
said the state needs visa expiration dates on immigrants' driver's licenses,
education funding and accountability, more jobs and a governor who will make
sure government "lives within its means."

"This is an opportunity for Minnesotans to really step up and polish our image,"
said former Vikings coach Bud Grant, who introduced Pawlenty at one event. He
said that with Republican U.S. Senate candidate Norm Coleman and Pawlenty
elected, "we will back on the right track."

Elsewhere on Friday, Green Party gubernatorial candidate Pentel threw down the
gauntlet -- literally -- not once, not twice, but three times during a news
conference. The extra tosses were to ensure the cameras got the shot.

The red-and-gold gauntlet, a glove with armor that knights traditionally wore,
was a symbolic challenge to Pentel's opponents to "make hard and fast
commitments" on the issues, particularly during Friday night's debate on Twin
Cities Public Television.

U.S. SENATE CAMPAIGNS

Newly nominated DFL Senate candidate Walter Mondale took his short campaign out
to greater Minnesota, holding town-hall meetings in Mankato and Rochester before
heading north to Duluth.

Mondale spoke to about 350 enthusiastic supporters at Minnesota State
University, Mankato, where he spoke of "civility and healing."

"In these few days we should try to keep this campaign civil," he said. "Of all
times Minnesotans do not need a political dogfight. They need all of us to tell
the people of Minnesota what we intend to do about our problems and to build a
future."

Later Mondale drew about 400 people at Rochester Century High School, where
student Josh Lynch asked how Mondale differed from Wellstone.

"Paul was dynamic. He was an orator of incredible power. He would get everyone
zipped up. And I am a southern Minnesota Norwegian."

All day Mondale emphasized environmental protection, corporate responsibility, a
partnership with all nations to deal with Iraq, a stand against discrimination
and continuing Wellstone 's legacy.

Also on Friday, Mondale resigned from the Dorsey & Whitney law firm, as well as
directorships at Northwest Airlines and other companies.

Coleman, on the third day of a fly-around on which he has logged 1,925 miles,
told supporters he didn't want any negative ads run on his behalf.

"We've got an opportunity to be hopeful, to be positive If you love me, if you
want to be with me, you are going to be positive with me," Coleman said, before
a crowd of 500 people who crushed into the Black Bear Lodge in Baxter.

His comments came after media reports that the Republican Party of Minnesota was
preparing an ad showing former vice president Mondale with President Jimmy
Carter, linking him to problems of the 1970s.

Coleman said he was buoyed by the raucous crowds that packed each of his stops.

"This is absolutely stunning," he told about 300 supporters in Bemidji's
Northern Inn. "You lift us up."

He and Pawlenty got a boost from Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife, Lynne,
who spoke to about 2,000 Republican loyalists in a middle school gymnasium in
Hermantown, a bedroom community of Duluth.

Both Cheneys talked about the late Wellstone, who died in a plane crash Oct. 25.

"Paul fought hard for his beliefs and he expected others to do the same," Cheney
said.

Independence Party candidate Jim Moore released a detailed education proposal,
focused on keeping the majority of education funding at the state and local
level.

"I believe that this keeps decision-making closer to those affected by school
budgeting and provides greater input into educational results," Moore said in
his proposal.

He said he wants the federal government to meet its 40 percent funding
commitment for special education, and to pay for it by eliminating offshore tax
loopholes, which Moore said lead to $20 to $40 billion in lost tax revenue each
year.

Moore did "meet-and-greets" at Metro Transit bus stops and the University of
Minnesota during the day Friday. Later, he planned to go to downtown Minneapolis
with his portable generator and television to show his 90-second TV ad to
passers-by.

Today Moore was scheduled to campaign in the south metro in the morning and to
speak at a breast cancer awareness event in the afternoon. From there, he will
go to St. Cloud.

In the Green Party, Ray Tricomo joined Moore and Coleman in a televised debate,
and said he planned to attend a forum at Mayday Bookstore in Minneapolis today.

Never-say-die Ed McGaa, who lost the Green Party endorsement to Tricomo in
September, said he would hold a news conference at his home in Edina today to
announce he is running as a write-in candidate for U.S. Senate.

Jim Ragsdale, Patrick Sweeney, Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, Mara Gottfried, Tim
Nelson and Tom Webb contributed to this report. Judith Yates Borger can be
reached at jborger@pioneerpress.com or (612) 338-8198

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 9, 2002 Saturday

INS moves to discourage illegal Haitian immigrants

BYLINE: BY CURT ANDERSON; Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 299 words


WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration announced Friday that Haitians and others
who attempt to enter the United States illegally by sea will be detained and
subject to an expedited process to send them back home.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said that even the perception that
rules are being relaxed could spur a mass migration that threatens U.S. national
security.

Although Justice Department officials said the move was made under existing
authority, immigration activists said it marked a change in that most Haitians
no longer will be able to go free on bond while awaiting the outcome of their
asylum cases.

"Our government is changing the rules so they can justify their discriminatory
treatment of Haitians," said Cheryl Little, an immigration advocate in Miami.

The INS said illegal migrants will be placed in expedited removal proceedings
and probably detained during any appeals at the discretion of the Justice
Department. This would apply to anyone arriving illegally by sea except Cubans,
who are exempted under a 1966 law.

The statement follows the Oct. 29 arrival in Key Biscayne, Fla., of 211 Haitians
and three Dominicans who waded ashore after their boat ran aground.

The INS is appealing bonds granted to many of these individuals, which would
allow them to go free until an asylum hearing is held.

The agency said the intent of the bond appeals and the administration policy is
to clearly discourage mass migration by sea to the United States and to prevent
key Coast Guard and Defense Department assets from being diverted to deal with
the arrival of more boats.

But Little said the effect is to deny Haitians their day in court, using
national security as an excuse. The rules are expected to take effect sometime
next week, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday

Mexico's leader calls for immigration talks

BYLINE: BY KEVIN SULLIVAN and GLENN KESSLER; Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 535 words


MEXICO CITY -- President Vicente Fox urged Secretary of State Colin Powell and
other visiting U.S. Cabinet members Tuesday to restart stalled negotiations on
improving immigration rules between Mexico and the United States, but Powell
offered no hope of early progress on the divisive issue.

"The tragic events of (Sept. 11, 2001) obliged us to give priority to the topics
of security and postpone solutions to other important matters on the bilateral
agenda," Fox told Powell, Attorney General John Ashcroft and five other members
of President Bush's Cabinet at an annual binational meeting. "Now it is the
moment to take up our negotiations again with newfound energy."

Fox has been criticized here for having little to show for his extensive efforts
to improve ties with the United States, particularly on the border issue that
affects the many Mexicans who travel to work in the United States.

In several public addresses during a 24-hour visit here, however, Powell sought
to lower expectations for any immediate agreement on immigration. At the same
time, he assured America's southern neighbor that "there is no area in the world
that is more important to us than our own neighborhood."

Powell's trip, like a similar one-day visit to Canada two weeks ago, was
designed largely to mend fences with a neighbor that has felt ignored since the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Many Mexicans, like many Canadians, believe
that Washington has lost interest in bilateral relations as it focuses on
fighting terrorism.

Mexican reaction to Powell's visit was generally upbeat. No one had expected
much substance from the talks, but many were pleased that Bush sent a high-level
delegation at a time when the administration is occupied with Iraq and the war
on terror.

Still, Mexicans are disappointed that warm ties between Bush and Fox have
yielded few concrete results, especially on changes to U.S. immigration policy,
which is Mexico's No. 1 foreign policy priority. Despite heightened security in
the past year, Mexican illegal immigrants continue to flow into the United
States, and deaths along remote desert areas of the border have increased
sharply.

Mexicans have urged Bush to grant more visas to Mexicans, create new
guest-worker programs and legalize some of the estimated 3 million to 4 million
Mexican illegal immigrants already living in the United States. Although Bush
and Fox had agreed to seek an immigration accord early last year, momentum on
that plan was stalled by the Sept. 11 attacks.

"U.S. migration policies must treat Mexican men, women and children with respect
and dignity," Bush said in a videotaped message played for Fox and the other
officials Tuesday morning. "Our Cabinet officials continue to work together on
creative new policies so that immigration is legal, orderly and safe."

Powell, in a joint news conference with Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge
Castaneda, said the United States is "just as committed today" to immigration
reform as before the Sept. 11 attacks. But he noted that those attacks, along
with this month's election of a new Congress and creation of a new Department of
Homeland Security, changed the political realities in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday

Mexico's leader calls for immigration talks

BYLINE: BY KEVIN SULLIVAN and GLENN KESSLER; Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 508 words


MEXICO CITY -- President Vicente Fox urged Secretary of State Colin Powell and
other visiting U.S. Cabinet members Tuesday to restart stalled negotiations on
improving immigration rules between Mexico and the United States, but Powell
offered no hope of early progress on the issue.

"The tragic events of (Sept. 11, 2001) obliged us to give priority to the topics
of security and postpone solutions to other important matters on the bilateral
agenda," Fox told Powell, Attorney General John Ashcroft and five other members
of President Bush's Cabinet at an annual binational meeting. "Now it is the
moment to take up our negotiations again with newfound energy."

Fox has been criticized here for having little to show for his extensive efforts
to improve ties with the United States, particularly on the border issue that
affects the many Mexicans who travel to work in the United States.

In several public addresses during a 24-hour visit here, however, Powell sought
to lower expectations for any immediate agreement on immigration. At the same
time, he assured America's southern neighbor that "there is no area in the world
that is more important to us than our own neighborhood."

Powell's trip, like a similar one-day visit to Canada two weeks ago, was
designed largely to mend fences with a neighbor that has felt ignored since the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Many Mexicans, like many Canadians, believe
that Washington has lost interest in bilateral relations as it focuses on
fighting terrorism.

No one here had expected much substance from the talks, but many were pleased
Bush sent a high-level delegation at a time when he is occupied with Iraq and
the war on terror.

Still, Mexicans are disappointed that warm ties between Bush and Fox have
yielded few concrete results, especially on changes to U.S. immigration policy,
which is Mexico's No. 1 foreign policy priority. Despite heightened security in
the past year, Mexican illegal immigrants continue to flow into the United
States, and deaths along remote desert areas of the border have increased
sharply.

Mexicans have urged Bush to grant more visas to Mexicans, create new
guest-worker programs and legalize some of the estimated 3 million to 4 million
Mexican illegal immigrants already living in the United States. Although Bush
and Fox had agreed to seek an immigration accord early last year, momentum on
that plan was stalled by the Sept. 11 attacks.

"U.S. migration policies must treat Mexican men, women and children with respect
and dignity," Bush said in a videotaped message played for Fox and the other
officials Tuesday morning. "Our Cabinet officials continue to work together on
creative new policies so that immigration is legal, orderly and safe."

Powell said the United States is "just as committed today" to immigration reform
as before the Sept. 11 attacks. But he said those attacks, along with this
month's election of a new Congress and creation of a new Department of Homeland
Security, changed the political realities in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday

Cut immigration across the board

BYLINE: BY MARK KRIKORIAN; Commentator

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 663 words


One approach frequently suggested to protect our country from Muslim terrorists
is simply to bar immigrants, tourists and students from Muslim countries.

A recent poll sponsored by the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations and the
German Marshall Fund of the United States found considerable support for this
approach, favored by 79 percent of the public and by 40 percent of opinion
leaders.

But there are two problems with this, one practical, the other ideological.

The practical problem is that barring arrivals from Muslim countries just
wouldn't screen out terrorists. As it is, applicants from Middle Eastern
countries formally listed as sponsors of terrorism -- Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan,
Syria -- have long been subject to extra scrutiny, so instead, the Sept. 11
terrorists came from Muslim countries not on the official list of
terrorist-sponsoring countries.

Now that we are focusing more scrutiny on most Muslim-majority countries, we are
likely to see terrorists coming from non-Muslim countries with large and
radicalized Muslim minorities -- the Philippines, India, China and Russia.

In fact, the FBI in September warned of just such a development with regard to
Russian citizens. Because of increased scrutiny of visitors from Muslim nations,
al-Qaida is said to have discussed "hijacking a commercial airliner using Muslim
extremists of non-Arabic appearance," specifically "Chechen Muslims affiliated
with al-Qaida, but already present in the United States." The recent mass
hostage-taking by Chechens in Moscow gives this warning added urgency.

And in the unlikely event we were to bar everyone from Russia, the Philippines,
and other such nations, then the terrorists would almost certainly make greater
use of Muslim citizens of western Europe and Canada -- as with Zacarias
Moussaoui and Richard Reid. And this is especially problematic, since visas are
not currently required for citizens of these countries.

As it happens, since the Sept. 11 attacks, dozens of people holding citizenship
in Germany, Spain, France, Britain and other European countries have been
arrested for involvement in al-Qaida terrorist cells.

The impossibility of excluding Muslim terrorists by barring citizens of specific
countries would force someone pursuing this approach to recommend a religious
test for immigration, which is clearly absurd. And that points to the second
objection to an immigration policy targeting Muslims, an objection based on
principle; special exclusions for Muslim immigrants, even if they were possible,
would be a throwback to the national-origin quotas of the 1920s, the elimination
of which was the only positive aspect of the hapless 1965 immigration-law
changes.

Focusing on Muslims is certainly sensible as triage, as a way to decide where to
start enforcing the law, as the Justice Department is doing by tackling the pool
of 300,000-plus deportation absconders by starting with the 6,000 or so from the
Middle East. But constructing a long-term, Muslim-specific immigration policy
would be contrary to American principles and politically unsustainable.

After all, we have effectively been at war with Iraq for more than a decade and
yet gave green cards to more than 40,000 Iraqis from 1991 to 2000 -- and not a
single member of Congress has even suggested that we do otherwise.

So, what to do? We could attempt to preserve today's historically unprecedented
level of immigration, and apply tighter security measures to all comers -- but
does anyone think the INS is now, or will be in the foreseeable future, capable
of such a herculean task?

No, the only realistic solution is to cut immigration across the board,
regardless of the religion the immigrant claims to profess, and target our other
security procedures at the smaller number of people arriving from abroad. Only
in this way do we have any hope of limiting al-Qaida's access to the United
States. We fail to act at our peril.

Krikorian (e-mail: msk@cis.org

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday

Cutbacks won't stop terrorism

BYLINE: BY JOHN B. QUIGLEY; Commentator

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 602 words


A rallying cry heard these days inside the Beltway is to halt immigration from
certain Middle East countries, to stop the entry of potential terrorists. The
issue became hot-button last month in several congressional races.

The concern is twofold. One is that people bent on terror will be admitted into
the United States. The other is that immigrant communities in the United States
from these countries provide a locale in which terrorists can operate.

Current administration policy is to scrutinize potential immigrants more
carefully than in the past. Negative information about potential immigrants held
by one agency did not always get into the computers of another.

With the FBI, CIA and Immigration and Naturalization Service all involved,
slippage has been a problem. The new Homeland Security Department is supposed to
ensure that information is shared among the agencies.

Another problem is follow-up on immigrants, to make sure they comply with the
conditions of their entry. That matter too is getting renewed federal attention.

The proposals to halt immigration entirely from certain countries are too
broad-brush. Most of the potential immigrants are law-abiding persons entering
the United States for the reasons that have motivated generations of migrants
before them.

Mohamed Atta and the others who carried out the Sept. 11 attacks did not try to
"hide" in immigrant communities. They rented apartments in non-immigrant
neighborhoods. Indeed, they may have avoided immigrant neighborhoods, as people
from their home countries might have figured out that they were not typical
immigrants.

We cannot build a Chinese wall around the United States. We are part of a world
that we cannot avoid. We must be concerned about terror attacks not only inside
our borders, but against American personnel and objectives abroad. Our
anti-terror focus must be broader. It must address the causes of such attacks.

At the top of the list of such measures must be efforts to ascertain the reasons
behind terror attacks. One finds resentment in the Middle East against the
United States, as result of perceptions of our policies there over the past
half-century.

Certain of our policies in that region merit reconsideration in any event, even
apart from concern about terrorism. Our one-sided support of Israel is a major
element. We should be trying to seek an even-handed Israel-Palestine peace for
many reasons. When we were actively engaged in that process in 1999-2000, we did
not experience the level of terror attacks that followed the breakdown in
Israel-Palestine talks.

The Bush administration is perceived as the most pro-Israel, and anti-Palestine,
administration of recent times. That perception, which is probably correct, puts
Americans at unnecessary risk of terrorist attack.

The administration's constant talk about invading Iraq does not help either.
People in the region fear that what we call "regime change" will mean the deaths
of thousands of Iraqis, from bombing of urban areas of Iraq. All that recruiters
for organizations like al-Qaida need do these days to attract converts is to
mention our policy on Israel-Palestine, and our plans to invade Iraq.

Better scrutiny by federal agencies of potential immigrants is part of the
picture for protecting our citizenry. Information sharing among federal agencies
and follow-up of migrants can go a long way. Excluding potential entrants from
certain countries or drastically curbing immigration is not nearly as effective
as reducing the incentive to attack us in the first place.

Quigley (e-mail: Quigley.2@osu.edu

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 8, 2002 Sunday

ST. PAUL: Anti-crime program to reach out to immigrants

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 593 words


Refugees and immigrants living in St. Paul's Frogtown-Thomas-Dale neighborhood
often fail to make a report when they are victims of crime, raising the risk
that they will be targeted again and making their cases harder to solve.

Hoping to break that pattern in the neighborhood with the city's worst violent
crime rate, officials of Civil Society, a nonprofit agency in St. Paul, are
launching Freedom From Fear, a program aimed at helping people overcome language
and other barriers so they will be more likely to report crime.

"Some of them don't speak English, some don't have the same cultural values,
some don't trust the police, some are from cultures that don't encourage going
outside your own group to report crime," said Linda Miller, executive director
of Civil Society, which provides education and advocacy for crime victims from
disadvantaged communities. Others fear retaliation or distrust authorities
because of problems in their homelands.

The neighborhood had the most auto thefts of any in the city in 2001 and trailed
only downtown in the number of calls for service, robberies, aggravated
assaults, narcotics and vandalism.

Freedom From Fear is getting started with a four-year, $460,000 grant from a
U.S. Justice Department program for crime victims. The program will have to show
progress to continue receiving grant money each year. The money comes from the
forfeiture of assets seized in criminal cases and not from tax money, Miller
said.

The plan is to bring together community and other organizations to improve
services to victims, including those who do not report crimes in the
Frogtown/Thomas-Dale neighborhood, where increasing numbers of Asian, African
and other immigrants and refugees have settled.

The program will work with agencies to identify victims, provide
crime-prevention education and training for community leaders in ways to
increase crime reporting. It will focus on crimes that have hit the neighborhood
hard, including auto theft, robbery and firearm discharges, as well as crimes
that have high rates of underreporting and repeat victims, such as sexual
assault, domestic abuse, fraud, identity theft and extortion.

Advocates said they would welcome such an effort in the Frogtown neighborhood,
which had the highest violent crime rate in St. Paul, according to federal
statistics cited in the program's grant application, with 20 offenses a year for
every 1,000 residents.

"With any language barrier or cultural barrier, it's very intimidating to deal
with calling 911," said Tait Danielson, community organizer for the city's
District 7 Planning Council, which covers the neighborhood. "Contacting the
police, contacting any authority to deal with crime is difficult because we do
have such a high immigrant population. It's exactly these kinds of things we've
been needing for awhile now."

Such efforts to reach out to immigrants and refugees are important when even
something seemingly as simple as calling 911 can be daunting, said Rachel
Tschida of the Minneapolis-based Center for Victims of Torture. A doctor
inadvertently alarmed one of the center's African clients, for example, when he
told him -- near the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks -- to call
911 if his new inhaler was not helping his asthma.

"He went back to his interpreter and said, 'I had nothing to do with the
terrorist attack. Don't they know I'm a nice man,' " Tschida said. "Sometimes
it's just miscommunication that can be the issue."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 11, 2002 Wednesday

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA: INS interviews students

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 638 words


International students at the University of Minnesota are among foreign visitors
who soon must register under a nationwide tracking system launched in response
to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

For now, those who must register are men ages 16 and over who are here on
temporary visas from 18 foreign countries, including Somalia. In three years,
the system will expand to track all of the estimated 35 million foreign visitors
to the country each year.

Most temporary foreign visitors are students, business travelers on extended
trips and tourists visiting family members for long periods. They must report to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in Bloomington to speak to
agents and have their photographs and fingerprints taken.

Students and others already have been making their way to the local immigration
office to register as part of the National Security Entry-Exit Registration
System, INS spokesman Tim Counts said. INS officials also have worked with
international student advisers at the U to arrange times for students to
register, including Friday. A typical interview lasts 15 minutes to half an
hour.

University of Minnesota students already interviewed have told Luis Bartolomei,
the immigration attorney for the University Student Legal Service, that "the
process is relatively smooth. There's not a lot of friction between the officers
and interviewees."

Students who have maintained their status and enrolled for the required number
of credits should not be apprehensive about going, though Bartolomei said those
who have not maintained their status should first consult an immigration
attorney.

And, although the interviews seem to be going smoothly, Bartolomei said he was
concerned by some questions, including requests for students' credit card
numbers.

"They are asking for information that allows the INS to really peer over your
shoulder," he said. "Who knows who will have access to it?"

Counts said interviewers are asking students to present a number of
identification documents, which can include credit cards.

The Department of Justice announced plans to create the system in June, saying
it would help expand scrutiny of foreign visitors who may pose a national
security concern.

Attorney General John Ashcroft called it "a vital line of defense in our war
against terrorism." The system will help identify wanted criminals and known
terrorists, notify the INS when foreign visitors overstay their visas and verify
that foreign visitors are doing what they said they would and living where they
said they would.

Temporary foreign visitors who are citizens or nationals of Iran, Iraq Libya,
Sudan or Syria who were admitted before last Sept. 10 and who plan to stay in
the United States past Monday must register by Monday.

Those from Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North
Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates or Yemen who were in
the United States before Oct. 1 and who plan to stay at least until Jan. 10 must
register by Jan. 10.

The registrants must provide detailed information about their background and the
purpose of the visit. They also must verify their address periodically and must
confirm their departure when they leave the country. Failure to register is a
criminal violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act and could lead to
deportation.

The registration requirement does not apply to citizens; permanent residents, or
green card holders; asylum applicants, grantees or diplomats.

To learn more about new regulations for immigrants, check:

* INS Service Center: (800) 375-5283

* INS on the Web: www.ins.usdoj.gov

* University of Minnesota students: www.isss.umn.edu

Staff writer Kristina Torres contributed to this report. Todd Nelson can be
reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 11, 2002 Wednesday

WHITE BEAR LAKE: Hockey promoter gets INS penalty

BYLINE: BY AMY BECKER; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 527 words


It wasn't that he claimed to be brother to a well-known professional hockey
player in Detroit.

It wasn't that he might have fibbed about being part of the Canadian Olympic
team.

Ultimately, the alleged lies that landed Dan Wregget, whose real name is
Drahomir Valchynsky, in federal custody were about his citizenship.

A Minneapolis grand jury charged Wregget, 35, of Hugo, with making a false
statement on an asylum application and possessing a fraudulent immigration
document -- a Cuban birth certificate, the U.S. attorney's office announced
Tuesday.

Valchynsky is well known in White Bear Lake hockey circles, where he was a youth
hockey promoter who served as an assistant coach for about three hours of ice
time and where he owns a hockey equipment store called Reyw Inc.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service eyeballed him in November 2001, when
a Detroit agent learned a Detroit TV station investigated Valchynsky's claims of
being brothers with former Red Wings goalie Ken Wregget. He claimed to be a
Cuban citizen in a September 2000 asylum application, saying his parents were
Czechoslovakian diplomats to Cuba.

Agents learned Valchynsky had even applied for a second Social Security number
claiming to be Cuban -- after receiving a number claiming to be from the Czech
Republic, according to the INS investigator's affidavit with the criminal
complaint filed against Valchynsky.

Those discoveries prompted an investigation of Valchynsky. INS investigators
interviewed him last January. He claimed the subject of the TV expose in Detroit
was his twin brother, Roberto Wregget, according to the affidavit. U.S.
officials say they proved Valchynsky's Cuban birth certificate was fake.

The investigation continued for months, culminating in a Nov. 13 search of the
family's home. Documents found there revealed Valchynsky's identity, and showed
him entering the United States under that name in 1998. The garbage held
evidence Valchynsky was from the Czech Republic, not Cuba.

Several hundred photographs obtained in the search failed to disclose any
evidence that Valchynsky has a twin brother. Counterfeit Czech birth
certificates in the names of Vendy and Daniel Wregget were also found in the
home, according to the INS affidavit.

INS agents took Valchynsky into custody Nov. 14, according to media reports.

His alleged fibs have landed heavily on White Bear Lake youth hockey players,
including his own sons, who play on the "A" Peewee and bantam teams, said Rod
Metcalf, president of the White Bear Lake Area Hockey Association.

Valchynsky got an assistant coaching spot with the "A" Peewee team, Metcalf
said. His background check was rejected, and he was removed from the team's
roster and allowed to participate only as a parent.

"We dealt with the coaching issue immediately," Metcalf said. But hard feelings
linger for local hockey supporters. "It's hurtful. There are a tremendous number
of people who are very dedicated to the cause (of hockey) for all the right
reasons."

No one responded to phone messages left at the store.

Amy Becker covers Washington County. She can be reached at
abecker@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 12, 2002 Thursday

MINNESOTA: License rule assailed today

BYLINE: BY BILL GARDNER; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 779 words


Despite an uproar when the issue was raised during the campaign for governor,
about 3,000 immigrants now have Minnesota driver's licenses printed with their
visa expiration dates.

Gov.-elect Tim Pawlenty and Republican legislators have vowed to make an
emergency order permanent, ensuring that law enforcement officers can more
easily spot people in the country illegally.

But at a hearing today before the Minnesota Court of Appeals, a number of
organizations will challenge the July order by then-Public Safety Commissioner
Charlie Weaver.

So far, none of the 3,000 immigrants with the special licenses has an expired
status, so no one has been reported to immigration authorities under the new
regulation.

But the groups challenging the rule -- including Jewish Community Action, the
National Lawyers Guild and the Minnesota Civil Liberties Union -- will argue
today that the court should strike down the regulation. They contend that the
rule is unconstitutional and that Weaver improperly issued it after the
Legislature rejected a similar bill.

During his campaign for governor, Pawlenty strongly supported the rule and drew
complaints from other candidates when he ran a TV advertisement on the subject
that stated: "Terrorists are here.'' Pawlenty stood by the ad, and Republican
legislators have promised to pass a law mirroring Weaver's order in the upcoming
legislative session.

Weaver has said he issued the order "to deal with an immediate and very real
threat."

But some immigrants contend they are being singled out for unfair treatment and
possible harassment. "To turn a driver's license into an immigration card is
objectionable," said Jordan Kushner, one of the attorneys fighting Weaver's
order. "People should be able to go about their business and shouldn't have to
have it exposed what their immigration status is. It's like a scarlet letter
around their neck."

American Arab AntiDiscrimination Committee President Chaouki Khamis said: "It
has caused a lot of people to panic. There's a sense of an anti-immigrant
campaign waged in the name of security. It's going to complicate the life of a
lot of people.''

State officials defend the new rule and note that some of the 9/11 terrorists
who took over airliners had expired U.S. visas.

Brian Lamb, director of driver and vehicle services for the Department of Public
Safety, said the new regulation could help in the war against terrorism.

"One week prior to Sept. 11, there were two different pullovers that happened in
Maryland or Virginia where a person turned out to be a terrorist and had
overextended their legal status," Lamb said, noting that officers couldn't know
the motorists were in the country illegally.

In addition to placing the visa status on driver's licenses, the new regulation
makes two other key changes, Lamb said.

Previously, people with a driver's license from another state could get a
Minnesota license by simply presenting their other license. Now, an out-of-state
license is not enough. A birth certificate, U.S. passport or document of status
from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is also required.

"Other states don't have the same sorts of standards of proving identification
as Minnesota does," Lamb said. "When we issue a driver's license in Minnesota,
we want to be sure we are issuing it to a person who is who they say they are."

Another change is that Minnesota now requires a photo with every driver's
license. Previously, people were allowed to decline to have a photo taken for
religious reasons.

Kushner said the new provision "discriminates against people for their religious
beliefs."

The 3.6 million people who already have Minnesota driver's licenses are not
affected, Lamb said. They will not have to present any additional information
about their identity or their immigration status when their licenses are
renewed. Only first-time applicants from another state or another country will
face the new stringent requirements.

Todd Noteboom, attorney for the groups challenging the rule, said it violates
constitutional guarantees of equal protection and freedom of religion and is
pre-empted by federal law.

Noteboom said his clients also are upset that the rule was issued without a
public hearing and was first rejected by an administrative law judge. The
Department of Public Safety then appealed to the chief administrative law judge,
who approved the rule with some changes in a hearing with no opposition.

"My clients were not a party," Noteboom said. "These were not contested
hearings. These were one-sided hearings and the public was cut out."

Bill Gardner can be reached at wgardner@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 12, 2002 Thursday

License/visa notation in front of court today

BYLINE: BY BILL GARDNER; Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 781 words


Despite an uproar when the issue was raised during the campaign for governor,
about 3,000 immigrants now have Minnesota driver's licenses printed with their
visa expiration dates.

Gov.-elect Tim Pawlenty and Republican legislators have vowed to make an
emergency order permanent, ensuring that law enforcement officers can more
easily spot people in the country illegally.

But at a hearing today before the Minnesota Court of Appeals, a number of
organizations will challenge the July order by then-Public Safety Commissioner
Charlie Weaver.

So far, none of the 3,000 immigrants with the special licenses has an expired
status, so no one has been reported to immigration authorities under the new
regulation.

But the groups challenging the rule -- including Jewish Community Action, the
National Lawyers Guild and the Minnesota Civil Liberties Union -- will argue
today that the court should strike down the regulation. They contend that the
rule is unconstitutional and that Weaver improperly issued it after the
Legislature rejected a similar bill.

During his campaign for governor, Pawlenty strongly supported the rule and drew
complaints from other candidates when he ran a TV advertisement on the subject
that stated: "Terrorists are here.'' Pawlenty stood by the ad, and Republican
legislators have promised to pass a law mirroring Weaver's order in the upcoming
legislative session.

Weaver has said he issued the order "to deal with an immediate and very real
threat."

But some immigrants contend they are being singled out for unfair treatment and
possible harassment. "To turn a driver's license into an immigration card is
objectionable," said Jordan Kushner, one of the attorneys fighting Weaver's
order. "People should be able to go about their business and shouldn't have to
have it exposed what their immigration status is. It's like a scarlet letter
around their neck."

American Arab AntiDiscrimination Committee President Chaouki Khamis said: "It
has caused a lot of people to panic. There's a sense of an anti-immigrant
campaign waged in the name of security. It's going to complicate the life of a
lot of people.''

State officials defend the new rule and note that some of the 9/11 terrorists
who took over airliners had expired U.S. visas.

Brian Lamb, director of driver and vehicle services for the Department of Public
Safety, said the new regulation could help in the war against terrorism.

"One week prior to Sept. 11, there were two different pullovers that happened in
Maryland or Virginia where a person turned out to be a terrorist and had
overextended their legal status," Lamb said, noting that officers couldn't know
the motorists were in the country illegally.

In addition to placing the visa status on driver's licenses, the new regulation
makes two other key changes, Lamb said.

Previously, people with a driver's license from another state could get a
Minnesota license by simply presenting their other license. Now, an out-of-state
license is not enough. A birth certificate, U.S. passport or document of status
from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is also required.

"Other states don't have the same sorts of standards of proving identification
as Minnesota does," Lamb said. "When we issue a driver's license in Minnesota,
we want to be sure we are issuing it to a person who is who they say they are."

Another change is that Minnesota now requires a photograph with every driver's
license. Previously, people were allowed to decline to have a photograph taken
for religious reasons.

Kushner said the new provision "discriminates against people for their religious
beliefs."

The 3.6 million people who already have Minnesota driver's licenses are not
affected, Lamb said. They will not have to present any additional information
about their identity or their immigration status when their licenses are
renewed.

Only first-time applicants from another state or another country will face the
new stringent requirements.

Todd Noteboom, attorney for the groups challenging the rule, said it violates
constitutional guarantees of equal protection and freedom of religion and is
pre-empted by federal law.

Noteboom said his clients are also upset that the rule was issued without a
public hearing and was first rejected by an administrative law judge. The
Department of Public Safety then appealed to the chief administrative law judge,
who approved the rule with some changes in a hearing with no opposition.

"My clients were not a party," Noteboom said. "These were not contested
hearings. These were one-sided hearings and the public was cut out."

Bill Gardner can be reached at wgardner@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 15, 2002 Sunday

JOE SOUCHERAY: Rights sometimes require playing by the rules

BYLINE: JOE SOUCHERAY; Pioneer Press Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 641 words


Latino immigrants, apparently intending to bring their Catholicism to the
argument, gathered outside a St. Paul courtroom the other day holding roses in
honor of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe. They weren't necessarily praying,
but they were presupposing that Our Lady would have joined them in their
opposition to having visa expiration dates printed on their licenses.

Nice try, but Our Lady of Guadalupe last appeared in public in 1531 at Tepeyac,
near Mexico City, and left her image on a piece of cactus cloth that,
miraculously, shows little sign of decay. There is nothing on the sacred image
about driver's licenses.

It just doesn't sit well with immigrants that they are required to have their
visa expiration dates printed on their driver's licenses. It was a bill that
didn't get very far in the last legislative session, but Charlie Weaver, then
the public safety commissioner, took it to an administrative law judge who saw
the wisdom in the rule and ordered it thus. It went into effect July 7. And ever
since, various protest groups have been trying to drum up support for the idea
that such a rule is unconstitutional.

Why? A driver's license is a privilege, not a right. If you are a first-time
license applicant from another country, you have to have a visa expiration date
on your license. Minnesota joined 19 other states with the same rule. It is
merely a way of trying to keep track of our foreign brothers and sisters, not
all of whom intend to commit acts of terrorism, but some of whom might.

The administrative ruling that Weaver managed to get accomplished despite a
reluctant Legislature also requires a photograph with the license. I have to
have mine on there. You have to have yours. But that is under protest as well
from those who say that they should be allowed to decline having their
photograph taken for religious reasons. Well, that's too bad. If I have to carry
around a photograph on my license that makes me look like Nick Nolte after a
three-day bender, you can ask your maker for forgiveness for one lousy snapshot.

Look, our friendly foreign visitors, nobody is trying to deny you anything.
Weaver might be the last guy in the world who wants to violate anybody's rights.
As civil employees go he might be one of the most civil and most reasonable and
most agreeable to the grocery list of today's cultural sensitivities. But
Charlie Weaver was public safety commissioner in post 9/11 America and he did
what he was supposed to do, take an incremental step to tighten up our security.

I suppose it has become terribly impolitic to say as much, but America should
have every right in the world to enforce American rules and regulations. Can you
imagine what restrictions might be placed on a driver's license in, say,
Somalia, or Iraq?

It is amazing that among the first things our new visitors seem to learn is that
they have rights in this great country. It shouldn't be left to the likes of an
ink-stained wretch to point out that you also have responsibilities to play by
the rules. And this being our country, our state, these are our rules.

Tim Pawlenty not only sees the merit in the visa expiration date, he wants to
see it become House File No. 1 when the Legislature convenes. If it becomes
Minnesota law, rather than an administrative ruling, it would effectively end
the practice of protest groups standing around outside courtrooms where appeals
court judges hear arguments against the practice.

For Pete's sake, it's a lousy expiration date. In Florida you have to be a
resident of the state for six months before you can even get a license, much
less one with a date on it.

And no, here in Minnesota there has not been a single case of anybody saying
that they have been wronged or harmed by the rule.

Joe Soucheray can be reached at jsoucheray@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 18, 2002 Wednesday

U.S.-born Hispanics less conservative than immigrants surveyed Differences
attributed to cultural assimilation

BYLINE: BY GENARO C. ARMAS; Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 549 words


WASHINGTON -- Hispanics born outside the United States find divorce and abortion
less acceptable than non-Hispanic whites, and an overwhelming majority of
foreign-born Latinos think children should live in their parents' home until
they are married, a poll released Tuesday finds.

Differences exist within Hispanic groups as well, as native-born Latinos tend to
have views similar to those of non-Hispanics and be less conservative on many
social issues than foreign-born Latinos, according to the poll conducted by the
Pew Hispanic Center and the Kaiser Family Foundation.

For instance, the research groups found that 20 percent of foreign-born
Hispanics found homosexual sex to be acceptable, compared with 33 percent of
native-born Hispanics, 38 percent of whites and 14 percent of blacks.

The federal government considers Hispanic to be an ethnicity, not a race; people
of Hispanic ethnicity can be of any race. Blacks and whites surveyed were not of
Hispanic ethnicity.

Foreign and native-born Hispanics agreed on several things -- 8 of 10 in each
group were confident that Hispanic children today would get a better education
than they had, while about 4 in 10 said they were not confident children would
hold the same moral values.

The results show that while Hispanics share some common beliefs, distinct
viewpoints have emerged as new immigrants arrive and older immigrants and first-
and second-generation Americans become assimilated into U.S. culture.

Hispanics born or educated in the United States have more exposure to popular,
and often more liberal, views and opinions of social issues that differ from
their native countries, said Pew Hispanic Center director Roberto Suro.

The research also shows that those who speak more English tend to have less
conservative views. As a result, recent immigrants who speak mainly Spanish may
simply be less able "to absorb American values and beliefs," Suro said.

The poll of adults surveyed by telephone last spring included 2,929 who
identified themselves as Hispanics, along with 1,008 whites and 171 blacks. The
poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.4 percentage points for Latinos
overall, plus or minus 3.3 percentage points for whites and plus or minus 9.9
percentage points for blacks.

Though blacks and whites were polled in some topics, the survey primarily
focused on Hispanic viewpoints on racial, economic and social issues.

Among foreign-born Hispanics, 51 percent said they found divorce acceptable,
compared with 65 percent of U.S.-born Hispanics, 59 percent of blacks and 74
percent of whites. There were similar differences among those who found abortion
acceptable: 14 percent of foreign-born Hispanics, compared with 29 percent of
native-born Hispanics, 28 percent of blacks and 43 percent of whites.

In addition, 91 percent of foreign-born Latinos said they thought it was better
for children to live in their parents' home until they were married. That was
compared with 57 percent of native-born Latinos, 46 percent of whites and 47
percent of blacks.

Thirty-one percent of Latinos said they, or someone they knew, had experienced
discrimination in the past five years because of their background, compared with
13 percent of whites and 46 percent of blacks.

Online: www.pewhispanic.org/

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 19, 2002 Thursday

TWIN CITIES: 2 men charged in false documents case

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 276 words


Two Twin Cities men have been charged with possessing hundreds of false Social
Security cards and immigration documents reportedly sent in packages mailed from
Southern California.

Fernando Gutierrez, 33, of St. Paul was charged Wednesday after a yearlong
investigation. Authorities monitored express deliveries from Los Angeles to the
Twin Cities, including 26 items delivered to Gutierrez's address.

False documents can be used to obtain driver's licenses, immigration and
employment documents and other forms of identification.

In a package intercepted last month and later delivered by undercover agents,
authorities found 104 blank fraudulent resident-alien cards from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, 104 blank Social Security cards and six sheets of
INS laminate, according to documents.

Authorities also found a driver's license and a false Social Security card in
the name of an alias Gutierrez reportedly used. Gutierrez was charged with
trafficking in fraudulent immigration documents and possessing document-making
implements.

In the other case, agents found 500 blank Social Security cards and 892
laminating sleeves in a package that was intercepted last month, then delivered
to Cristian Martinez, 31, of Minneapolis.

Agents found fraudulent documents and a checkbook in the name of an alias
Martinez used. He was charged with possessing false identification documents,
possessing false immigration documents and possessing counterfeit Social
Security cards.

Martinez reportedly told agents that he received the package from a relative in
Los Angeles and that he was planning to sell the false cards on the street.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 10, 2003 Friday

Immigrant deadline stirs panic

BYLINE: BY DAN EGGEN and NURITH C. AIZENMAN; Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 318 words


WASHINGTON -- Thousands of nervous immigrants from predominantly Muslim
countries, some facing possible arrest and deportation, have been flooding into
U.S. immigration offices in advance of today's deadline to register for a
controversial program that's resulted in more than 500 detentions nationwide.

The "special registration" effort -- designed to register, fingerprint and
question thousands of male foreign nationals from countries identified as
terrorist harbors -- has caused widespread confusion and panic in Muslim
immigrant communities across the United States, according to attorneys and
advocacy groups.

Lines at Immigration and Naturalization Service offices have grown so long this
week that registrants at some locations have arrived before 5 a.m. to avoid
being turned away, observers say.

Once inside, the men -- all 16 and older -- have been fingerprinted,
photographed and questioned about their activities and associations. If their
visas are expired or if they have otherwise violated U.S. immigration law, they
may be detained and deported.

Registration began last month for temporary male visitors from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan and Syria. Men from 12 other heavily Muslim countries and North
Korea must register by today, and will be followed by an estimated 14,000 Saudis
and Pakistanis, who must appear at INS offices by Feb. 21.

The INS and the Justice Department say the registration program is an attempt to
get a handle on tens of thousands of visa holders and other visitors from
countries that have sponsored terrorism or are havens for members of al-Qaida
and other terrorist groups.

The program has turned into a mounting public relations problem for the Bush
administration. It's the latest government immigration initiative since the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to generate controversy. The FBI previously
interviewed thousands of Mideast nationals.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 15, 2003 Wednesday

Driver's license bill passes first hurdle

BYLINE: BY RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 384 words


A bill requiring temporary immigrants' visa expiration dates to be stamped on
their driver's licenses passed its first state House committee Tuesday, but not
without attracting criticism from immigrants and civil rights groups.

Since July, state rules have required visa expiration dates, along with the
words "status check," on temporary immigrant's licenses. Of about 800,000
drivers licenses issued since then, 4,354 licenses -- one-half of 1 percent --
have included visa information.

Gov. Tim Pawlenty said Tuesday that putting the rule into law was one of his
campaign and his administration's marquee issues. The bill was the first one
introduced in the House this session -- a sign of the House Republican
leadership's support for the issue and for Pawlenty.

The bill lacks support in some quarters, however. About two dozen opponents of
the bill gathered in the state Capitol rotunda before the bill's first hearing.

Hassan Mohamud, vice president of the Muslim American Society, said the bill was
anti-immigrant and anti-minority.

Vic Rosenthal, executive director of the Jewish Community Action League, said
measures in the bill are reminiscent of other times governments have targeted
people because of who they are not what they have done.

"This is not the way to make us safer," said Rosenthal.

But, Rep. Rich Stanek, R-Maple Grove, the lead sponsor of the bill in the House,
told the House Transportation Policy Committee that putting visa information on
driver's licenses gives law enforcement another tool for keeping Minnesota safe.

The bill still has a way to travel before it can become law. It must go through
several House committees, then to the Senate.

While passage in the House likely will not be a hurdle, the road in the Senate
might be tougher. There isn't yet a comparable bill in the Senate.

Sen. Majority Leader John Hottinger, DFL-St. Peter, said Tuesday the Senate will
look at the issue, but members are also concerned about another potential
security issue -- the possibility of cuts in aid the state gives to local
governments that is used to help fund local police and fire protection.

Online: To read and track the bill in the House, visit www.house.leg.state.mn.us

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@ pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 16, 2003 Thursday

IMMIGRATION: Judge confirms order blocking Somali deportation

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 649 words


SEATTLE -- Deportation of Somalis to their turbulent homeland again has been
blocked by a federal judge, who also certified a lawsuit by five local
immigrants facing deportation to Somalia as a class action.

Ruling from the bench Tuesday, U.S. District Judge Marsha J. Pechman confirmed a
temporary order she issued late last year to bar the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from deporting as many as 2,747 Somalis nationwide,
including 41 in federal detention.

According to court documents, 196 Somali nationals were deported between 1997
and 2002.

"So many Somalis have been affected," said Saeed Fahia, executive director of
the Confederation of Somali Community in Minnesota, home to the nation's largest
Somali population. "The case has been like a family thing. This is really good
news."

Pechman held that deportation is illegal because the East African nation has
been without a central government to officially accept deportees for 11 years.

She directed lawyers for both sides to submit briefs by today on whether she
should consider the issue of whether to order the release of four Seattle
Somalis from federal detention when she issues a Friday written ruling that
details her findings.

Her decision is subject to appeal by the government to the 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals. The Justice Department did not return telephone calls from the
Seattle Times for comment Tuesday.

The government's appeal of a similar federal court finding that applies directly
to a single deportation case in Minnesota is pending before the 8th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals.

During a hearing in Seattle on Tuesday, a lawyer for the Somalis, Nicholas
Gellert, said anyone deported to Somalia faces an extreme danger of torture and
death.

Pechman voiced concern about the government's lack of information about what has
happened to previous Somali deportees.

"It's as if they've fallen into a black hole," she said. "That makes the risk to
petitioners extraordinarily high."

Some of those facing deportation have been convicted of crimes, said INS
spokesman Bill Strassberger in Washington, D.C. The others were in violation of
immigration laws.

"What we are talking about are people who do not have the legal right to be in
the U.S.," Strassberger said.

U.S. law requires that deportees be accepted by the country to which they are
sent, but the two sides differ on what constitutes acceptance.

INS officials have argued that because Somalia doesn't require entry documents,
formal acceptance is not required.

Pechman rejected that argument as "an incredible interpretation."

She also ruled that the government had done nothing to show that the
deportations are necessary for national security or that any of those facing
deportation had been linked to terrorism.

The case began in November after lawyers at Perkins Coie, a law firm with
clients that include the Boeing Co., agreed to represent without charge two
Somali men who had violated immigration laws and three with drug, assault or
drunken driving convictions.

All five, Yusuf Ali Ali, Mohamed Aweys, Mohamed Hussein Hundiye, Gama Kalif
Mohamud and Ahmed Noor Yusuf, ages 22 to 38, came to the country as refugees or
tourists at least six years ago.

All but Noor Yusuf remain in custody pending a decision by Pechman.

The Supreme Court has ruled that someone facing deportation cannot be jailed
indefinitely.

Pechman's actions followed a federal court ruling in Minnesota that blocked a
deportation in March on the grounds that federal law requires formal acceptance
of a deportee by the designated country. The government has appealed that
ruling.

After Pechman granted a temporary restraining order covering the local Somalis
in November, their lawyers moved to make the Seattle case a class action,
claiming detainees were being shuffled from lockup to lockup nationwide to
accelerate deportations.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 25, 2003 Saturday

EDUCATION: Colleges to start tracking foreign students

BYLINE: BY KRISTINA TORRES; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 655 words


Minnesota higher education officials may be working right up until Thursday's
deadline to get some information online for a new national tracking system of
foreign college students.

But a bigger task probably lies ahead this summer, as colleges scramble to meet
an Aug. 1 deadline to fully implement the Student and Exchange Visitor
Information System, or SEVIS. The new effort replaces an old paper process used
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Schools have spent months preparing for the end of January, when they must enter
only those students who need "new" assistance with their visas, such as travel
authorization or a program extension. A number of schools received final INS
approval of their systems in the past several days, and others are still
waiting.

INS officials haven't made required on-site visits to five of the 34 schools in
the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities System, although one school
expects a visit next week.

MnSCU has spent more than $17,000 and "thousands of hours of programming and
training," said spokeswoman Nancy Conner, adding that schools still awaiting
final approval will stick with the old paper system for now; officials don't
expect to be penalized for minor delays.

At the University of Minnesota, International Student and Scholar Services
Director Kay Thomas was too busy Friday to even talk -- "It's just nuts," she
said -- as she prepared to have staff in today to work with the new system.

The university and its four campuses have an international student enrollment of
about 3,400. MnSCU counts about 3,500 international students on its campuses.

There are also international students enrolled in Minnesota's private colleges.
Macalester College in St. Paul, widely known for its international recruitment
(including graduate Kofi Annan, now U.N. secretary general), has about 275
students who will be affected by SEVIS.

Aaron Colhapp, the international student program coordinator, started the
school's system in October. He sums it up as "kind of clumsy but, for the most
part, it will actually work out pretty good."

The Justice Department and the INS track about 1 million foreign and exchange
students each year, and the effort has been under heavy scrutiny since Sept. 11,
2001. Some of the terrorists involved in the attacks entered the United States
on student visas.

Legislation for a computerized tracking system was first introduced in 1996, but
not until passage of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 did Congress provide $36.8
million to the INS to mandate the change.

Schools, however, essentially bear the cost of changing to SEVIS, though "it's
progress. It's new technology. Hopefully, there will be fewer delays in
processing time for new applicants," said Angela Goehring, international student
adviser at St. Olaf College in Northfield.

But, she added, the new system requires more time and money than schools may be
used to, because the government is "requiring much more policing on our part,
things we never had to report before."

* Schools will be required to report a student's failure to enroll. Under the
old system, schools had no obligation to do this. Schools also must report such
information as the start date of a student's next semester, the dropping of a
full course of study without approval, any disciplinary action taken because of
a crime and earlier-than-expected graduation.

* It is Internet-based, which should speed up information exchanges among
schools and the government. Under the old system, the exchange didn't happen
until a paper document was sent from one place to the next.

* It is expected to reduce visa fraud. Under the old system, student visa forms
have been stolen and used to support fraudulent visa applications.

* The deadline for all students to have a SEVIS record is Aug. 1.

Kristina Torres, who covers higher education, can be reached at
ktorres@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 29, 2003 Wednesday

Southeast Asian refugees cleared for residency

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 359 words


Hundreds of Southeast Asian refugees in the Twin Cities could become permanent
residents under a new immigration program.

The program stands to end years or even decades of legal uncertainty for
eligible refugees admitted from Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia, in some cases as
long ago as 1980, said John Klow, deputy district director for the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Congress approved the program in 2000 but it could not take effect until
regulations spelling out how it would work were in place. The rules finally came
out last month, and the INS began taking applications on Monday.

The application period runs for three years, but INS officials and immigration
advocates encourage people to apply early, because the nationwide limit on the
number of refugees who will receive permanent resident status under the program
is 5,000.

"This is something that affects people in our own local community who have been
looking forward to this," said Klow. "There will definitely be interest in our
Southeast Asian refugee community. This program is really going to resolve an
issue for people who have been in the United States, some potentially for more
than 20 years, in legal limbo."

Those eligible to apply must have entered the United States on or before Oct. 1,
1997, after arriving from Vietnam under the Orderly Departure Program, from a
refugee camp in East Asia or from a United Nations refugee camp in Thailand,
among other requirements.

People who get permanent resident status under the program will be able to apply
for citizenship right away, said Glenda Potter of Southern Minnesota Regional
Legal Services, which works with the United Cambodian Association of Minnesota.

Refugees brought to the United States can live and work in this country, though
their legal status is essentially the same as if they were still in an overseas
camp, Klow said. Refugees can live and work in this country but do not have the
same legal standing as permanent residents, who can pursue naturalization.

For some refugees, their status in effect has become indefinite and the new
program offers those who qualify a way out.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 29, 2003 Wednesday

ANTI-TERRORISM: Immigrant license bill poised for House OK

BYLINE: BY RUBEN ROSARIO; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 371 words


A bill that would require visa expiration dates to be stamped on temporary
immigrants' driver's licenses is headed to the full House after its third and
final committee approval Tuesday.

Under state rules set in July, visa expiration dates and the words "status
check" on the front of licenses have helped police and others identify
noncitizens here on temporary student or work visas.

If passed, the bill would turn the policy into law.

Capitol insiders agree that House approval of the proposed anti-terrorism
measure, which was a controversial but successful cornerstone of Gov. Tim
Pawlenty's TV campaign pledge, is almost an afterthought.

Sen. Dave Kleis, R-St. Cloud, who introduced the same bill in the Senate
recently, is confident his bill also will pass, but acknowledged that it is
likely to meet more resistance among his colleagues.

Bill proponents, many of them on the law enforcement end, believe it could help
sniff out suspected terrorists as well as tighten regulations surrounding a
state-issued privilege that serves as the key gateway to identification for many
residents.

They also stress that it would not affect permanent residents or undocumented
immigrants, and that those with expiration dates on their licenses represent
about one-half of 1 percent of the more than 800,000 licenses issued since the
rule went into effect.

But critics, among them civil rights supporters and advocates for immigrant
communities, said the measure is ineffective at identifying suspected
terrorists. Ultimately, they said, it sends the wrong message to legal and
undocumented immigrants who have played an important role in the state's
underground economy and rebuilding once-blighted communities.

"What do we really get out of this?" said Rep. Keith Ellison, DFL -Minneapolis.

"Where are the Timothy McVeighs in this? The 19 hijackers who destroyed the
World Trade Center? Many of them were here legally. We could pass this bill and
alienate large numbers of people who have nothing to do with terrorism."

Information about this bill -- HF1 in the House and SF87 in the Senate -- is
available at www.leg.state.mn.us

Ruben Rosario can be reached at (651) 222-5266 or rrosario@ pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 29, 2003 Wednesday

Southeast Asian refugees cleared for residency

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 417 words


Hundreds of Southeast Asian refugees in the Twin Cities could become permanent
residents under a new immigration program.

The program stands to end years or even decades of legal uncertainty for
eligible refugees admitted from Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia, in some cases as
long ago as 1980, said John Klow, deputy district director for the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Congress approved the program in 2000 but it could not take effect until
regulations spelling out how it would work were in place. The rules finally came
out last month, and the INS began taking applications on Monday.

The application period runs for three years, but INS officials and immigration
advocates encourage people to apply early, because the nationwide limit on the
number of refugees who will receive permanent resident status under the program
is 5,000.

"This is something that affects people in our own local community who have been
looking forward to this," said Klow. "There will definitely be interest in our
Southeast Asian refugee community. This program is really going to resolve an
issue for people who have been in the United States, some potentially for more
than 20 years, in legal limbo."

Those eligible to apply must have entered the United States on or before Oct. 1,
1997, after arriving from Vietnam under the Orderly Departure Program, from a
refugee camp in East Asia or from a United Nations refugee camp in Thailand,
among other requirements.

People who get permanent resident status under the program will be able to apply
for citizenship right away, said Glenda Potter of Southern Minnesota Regional
Legal Services, which works with the United Cambodian Association of Minnesota.

Refugees brought to the United States can live and work in this country, though
their legal status is essentially the same as if they were still in an overseas
camp, Klow said. Refugees can live and work in this country but do not have the
same legal standing as permanent residents, who can pursue naturalization.

For some refugees, their status in effect has become indefinite and the new
program offers those who qualify a way out.

A number of Cambodian clients who expect to file have been in the United States
since the early 1990s, said Karen Ellingson of the Immigrant Law Center of
Minnesota. Some have been calling regularly to find out when they could apply.

Contact the INS at www.ins. usdoj.gov or (800) 375-5283.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 31, 2003 Friday

ANTI-TERRORISM: House passes immigrant license bill

BYLINE: BY TONI COLEMAN; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 426 words


A measure designed to identify immigrants who have overstayed their visas passed
by a wide margin in the Minnesota House on Thursday over the objections of
lawmakers who said it would invite discrimination.

Lawmakers voted 106-25 for a bill that would require visa expiration dates to be
displayed on the driver's licenses of temporary immigrants.

Rep. Rich Stanek, R-Maple Grove, said the bipartisan vote for his bill sends a
message to the slower-moving Senate, where a companion bill has been introduced
but no hearings have been scheduled.

If passed by the Senate -- the governor's signature is a given --the bill would
turn into law rules that have been in place since July. Since then, immigrants
who are here temporarily have been issued licenses with their visa expiration
dates and the words "status check" printed on the front.

Without action by a judge or the Legislature, the rules would expire in two
years.

Rep. Carlos Mariani, DFL-St. Paul, said the words "status check" were
essentially a scarlet letter that set immigrants up for discrimination. Other
opponents criticized the bill as purely "symbolic and political," and one that
does nothing to improve security.

"It's the wrong message. The symbolic message we're sending with House File 1
is, 'Look here immigrants ... you're not amongst us, you're not one of us," said
Rep. Keith Ellison, DFL-Minneapolis. While the bill affects a small number of
people -- one-half of 1 percent of the more than 800,000 licenses issued since
July carry the visa expirations -- it sends a harmful message to the larger
immigrant community, he said.

Stanek rejected their arguments.

"It's easy to have political rhetoric -- 'We're picking on immigrants.' That's
not what this bill is about," said Stanek, who left office after taking this
vote Thursday to become Gov. Tim Pawlenty's commissioner of public safety.

He said the bill strengthens identification requirements for obtaining a
license, requires visitors to demonstrate their authority to stay in the country
and strengthens the penalties for those who break the law.

Opponents who feared the strengthened penalties would snare teenagers who use
fake identification for underage drinking won concessions. Such fraudulent use
of the state ID or license would remain a misdemeanor rather than become a gross
misdemeanor, which Stanek had proposed.

Information about this legislation -- HF1 in the House and SF87 in the Senate --
is available at www.leg.state.mn.us

Toni Coleman can be reached at tcoleman@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 1, 2003 Saturday

BLOOMINGTON: Somali man freed, won't be deported

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 359 words


A Somali man regained his freedom on Friday after spending more than two months
in custody as federal authorities unsuccessfully tried to deport him.

Abdullahi Ahmed Farah walked from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office in Bloomington flanked by his wife and other relatives, ending a 10-week
odyssey that saw authorities transport the 33-year-old Minneapolis resident to
Louisiana, New York, Ohio, Texas and, most important to him, back to Minnesota
and not to his war-torn homeland.

"I'm very happy today," said Farah, who was doing assembly-line work, driving
for a rental-car company and taking classes when INS officers picked him up in
November. "I start my life like before, start my work and life go normal."

Farah acknowledged he faces deportation because he illegally entered the
country, crossing from Mexico into California, in 1999.

But U.S. District Judge Donovan Frank in St. Paul ruled in December that the INS
cannot deport him to Somalia because the African country, which has been largely
in chaos since civil war broke out in 1991, has no functioning government to
accept him, as U.S. law requires.

On Wednesday, Frank issued a new decision ordering Farah's release, citing a
Supreme Court decision holding that illegal immigrants who cannot be deported
cannot be held indefinitely. Farah, one of a number of Somalis detained across
the country in November, is the first to be released in this manner.

"We're hoping this decision will help spur courts ... to release them," Farah's
lawyer, Kevin Magnuson, said of the 15 to 20 Minnesota Somalis and a like number
from other states still in custody.

Omar Jamal, executive director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center, was
pleased with Farah's release but troubled about the others still in custody.

"We are very much concerned about humans treated as cattle, being transferred
from one state to another, keeping them in limbo," Jamal said.

"Today is one of my happiest days," Farah's wife, Asha, said through a
translator. "I am very happy to get my life back, to get my husband back."

Reach Todd Nelson at (651) 228-5575 or tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 1, 2003 Saturday

BLOOMINGTON: Somali man freed in deportation case

BYLINE: BY TODD NELSON; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 361 words


A Somali man regained his freedom on Friday after spending more than two months
in custody as federal authorities unsuccessfully tried to deport him.

Abdullahi Ahmed Farah walked from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office in Bloomington flanked by his wife and other relatives, ending a 10-week
odyssey that saw authorities transport the 33-year-old Minneapolis resident to
Louisiana, New York, Ohio, Texas and, most important to him, back to Minnesota
and not to his war-torn homeland.

"I'm very happy today," said Farah, who was doing assembly-line work, driving
for a rental-car company and taking classes when INS officers picked him up in
November. "I start my life like before, start my work and life go normal."

Farah acknowledged he faces deportation because he illegally entered the
country, crossing from Mexico into California, in 1999.

But U.S. District Judge Donovan Frank in St. Paul ruled in December that the INS
cannot deport him to Somalia because the African country, which has been largely
in chaos since civil war broke out in 1991, has no functioning government to
accept him, as U.S. law requires.

On Wednesday, Frank issued a new decision ordering Farah's release, citing a
Supreme Court decision holding that illegal immigrants who cannot be deported
cannot be held indefinitely. Farah, one of a number of Somalis detained in
Minnesota and other states in November, is the first to be released in this
manner.

"We're hoping this decision will help spur courts ... to release them," Farah's
lawyer, Kevin Magnuson, said of the 15 to 20 Minnesota Somalis and a like number
from other states still in custody.

Omar Jamal, executive director of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center, was
pleased with Farah's release but troubled about the others still in custody.

"We are very much concerned about humans treated as cattle, being transferred
from one state to another, keeping them in limbo," Jamal said.

"Today is one of my happiest days," Farah's wife, Asha, said through a
translator. "I am very happy to get my life back, to get my husband back."

Reach Todd Nelson at (651) 228-5575 or tanelson@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 11, 2003 Tuesday

Immigration keeps up steady pace

BYLINE: Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 202 words


Immigration has continued at a steady pace in the past two years despite the
nation's weakened economy and efforts to tighten its borders, according to new
studies of Census Bureau numbers. And those new immigrants are finding jobs.

The number of employed immigrants rose by 593,000 from 2000 through the end of
last year, while the number of U.S.-born workers declined by 1.5 million, said a
new report by the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University.
Immigrant men and women gained equally, and most of the new workers were recent
arrivals.

The data make it clear that the United States still offers substantial appeal to
people from other countries, even though more than 2 million jobs have vanished
in the past two years, and 8.5 million people are unemployed. Despite concerns
that refugees and others are waiting longer to get in, some immigrants are
managing to do so, including many who arrive illegally.

The Census Bureau released a report Monday showing that more than 3 million
immigrants arrived in the previous two years, about the same pace as in the
1990s. That brought to 32.5 million the number of foreign-born people living in
U.S. households last March, a record.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 27, 2003 Thursday

MINNESOTA SENATE: Driver's license bill voted down

BYLINE: BY RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER; Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; BRIEF; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 618 words


Pawlenty issues 'code of ethics' for administration.

When legislators debated putting temporary immigrants' visa status on their
driver's licenses last year, most of the talk was about protecting Minnesotans
from terrorists. Gov. Tim Pawlenty even made it the subject of a campaign
commercial, with a narrator declaring: "Terrorists are here."

But proponents said very little about terrorism or immigrants when the measure
came up Wednesday in the Senate Crime Prevention and Public Safety Committee.
"It is an effort originally to prevent fraud," said Sen. David Knutson,
R-Burnsville.

That didn't stop critics from turning out to fight the measure. Nor did it save
the bill.

Immigrants' advocates, civil rights attorneys and Jewish organizations all spoke
against the bill, saying it would do nothing to protect Minnesotans and would
stigmatize immigrants. Henry Oertelt, a Jew originally from Germany, likened the
driver's license designation to the yellow star he had to wear under the Nazis.

Ultimately, the Democratic-Farmer-Labor-controlled committee defeated the
measure on a voice vote.

Sen. Mee Moua, DFL-St. Paul, said she was pleased backers did not focus on
terrorism Wednesday, but she said the damage had been done.

"The reality of it is, our governor in our last campaign used this issue to talk
about 'terrorism among us,' " said Moua. "This is not as clean and unloaded a
bill as we are talking about today. ... It comes to us loaded with other
implications."

Wednesday's committee action is far from a final declaration on the issue.

A bill requiring visa expiration dates on driver's licenses has already passed
the Republican-controlled House by a wide margin.

And its chief sponsor in the Senate, Dave Kleis, R-St. Cloud, says he hopes to
bypass the committee and bring the bill up on the Senate floor for a vote --
perhaps as early as today -- although a similar effort recently failed on a
party-line vote.

Meanwhile, the committee passed a bill by Moua on Wednesday that essentially
would prevent the state from printing foreigners' status on driver's licenses.

About 6,000 Minnesotan drivers already have their visa expiration dates and the
words "status check" on their driver's licenses. That's because state officials
put the requirement into place last summer through administrative rules after
the Legislature failed to pass it into law. Opponents have challenged the
administrative rules in court.

Moua's bill would allow those 6,000 drivers to exchange their licenses for new
ones without the visa information.

Pawlenty, who has made the measure a priority for his administration, said the
committee's rejection was a step backward.

"This bill is simply putting common sense into law. ... Today, a Senate
committee decided that not offending those who break our laws is more important
than protecting Minnesotans," Pawlenty said in a news release.

Meanwhile, three Senate Democrats said Wednesday they have their own plan to
deal with the threat of terrorism.

It involves borrowing $13 million to buoy the state's emergency radio system,
increasing the 911 surcharge telephone users pay on their monthly bills and
restoring funding for a law enforcement information system that Pawlenty slashed
earlier this year.

"These are real tools that local respondents can use in their communities," said
Sen. Jane Ranum, DFL-Minneapolis. Ranum also proposed putting a constitutional
amendment on the ballot in 2004 to allow the state to borrow money for public
safety projects.

ONLINE

Information about these bills, SF87 and SF1102, is available at
www.leg.state.mn.us

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 24, 2000 Sunday CITY EDITION

'THEY JUST WANT SOME PEACE';
FOR SOMALI WOMEN, MAKING THEIR WAY AS REFUGEES IN THE TWIN CITIES HAS BROUGHT
HARDSHIPS NOT EXPERIENCED BY MANY OTHER IMMIGRANTS. THE LACK OF HOUSING IS THE
GREATEST PROBLEM FACING THE METROPOLITAN AREA'S FASTEST-GROWING REFUGEE GROUP.

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1266 words


After four months in the Twin Cities, Khadija Hasan misses the relative comforts
of her last home - a camp in Uganda for refugees from the civil war in her
native Somalia.

She and her four sons have survived on little more than breakfast cereal,
endured beatings and harassment, and had no luck finding a permanent home.

"The refugee camp was better than here," Hasan, 35, said of the overflow shelter
in downtown Minneapolis that was her temporary home until she was evicted 10
days ago.

The lack of housing, as Hasan and other Somali newcomers quickly find, is the
greatest problem facing the Twin Cities' fastest-growing refugee group. Yet more
refugees arrive regularly, displaced from their East African homeland by civil
war and expelled from refugee camps in neighboring countries.

Among the most vulnerable of the new arrivals, housing and community officials
say, are single mothers whose husbands died in the fighting or could not or
would not flee with them. Raised in a culture that taught them to stay at home
and care for children, many Somali women do not read or write any language and
most speak no English.

They can be unaccustomed to handling issues such as housing and uncomfortable
dealing with men, even government or social service officials who could help
them. Many prefer a low profile, but the long, flowing hijab, the prescribed
Islamic dress, identifies them immediately and in some cases makes them a
target.

"If you're looking at a spectrum of adaptability, Somali women would be on the
lower end of that," said Tom Kosel, program manager for migration and refugee
services at Catholic Charities, one of five agencies that resettle Somali
refugees in Minnesota.

Family size presents an obstacle because apartments large enough for five, seven
or more children are difficult to find and hard to afford.

Landlords are more selective than they used to be, requiring two-year rental
histories and an income two to three times the monthly rent, disqualifying many
prospective low-income renters, both refugees and people who have lived here
their whole lives.

Many families move in with relatives or other Somalis in one apartment, putting
everyone in jeopardy of eviction. Some end up in homeless shelters, but
complaints about food and security at the Francis Drake Hotel in Minneapolis, a
private facility that serves as an overflow shelter for homeless families in
Hennepin County, have prompted many to avoid shelters altogether.

Housing officials see little hope of relief, with the Somali population,
estimated at 40,000, swelling rapidly, a vacancy rate of 1 percent for housing
in Minneapolis and little low-income housing under construction in the Twin
Cities.

"They just want some peace, anywhere in the world, somewhere to have shelter,
food and raise their kids," said Safia Omar, a social worker for the Somali
Community of Minnesota who helps families find housing.

Amal Yusuf, director of the Somalian Women's Association, sees a growing stream
of refugees with housing woes at her South Minneapolis office, which has
provided English classes and other programs at no charge to Somali women since
1996.

With half its 375 clients in dire need of permanent housing, the association has
taken some unusual steps to deal with the crisis, Yusuf said, such as co-signing
leases to secure apartments for 15 families in St. Paul. As a last resort, staff
members take refugee families into their own homes. The association also is
considering buying a building in South Minneapolis to serve as transitional
housing.

While struggling to find homes, Somali women have suffered discrimination and
abuse, Yusuf said, problems that she and more than a dozen clients addressed at
a news conference earlier this month. Some landlords have taken advantage of
refugees, claiming their entire assistance checks as rent. Some women said they
and their children had been beaten in and around the Drake hotel.

Fadumo Buruf said she and her four children were accosted in front of the Drake
by young men who knocked her down and kicked her under her right breast, leaving
a bruise that made nursing her newborn child difficult. The Somalian Women's
Association helped Buruf find transitional housing in Bloomington.

Other Somali women also complained about mistreatement at the Drake. Hasan, the
mother evicted from the hotel along with her four sons, said she had been beaten
by other residents inside the Drake on several occasions. The night before hotel
managers told her to leave, Hasan said, she broke up a scuffle between her son
and another boy, whose father began beating her.

On other occasions, Hasan said through an interpreter, she and her children were
just outside the hotel when young men knocked them down or punched them as they
went to buy food.

"I never dreamed I would end up like this," said Hasan, who ran a grocery store
in the Somali capital of Mogadishu with her husband, whose whereabouts have been
unknown for four years. "We hope once we get out we will be living like other
human beings."

Hasan and other Somali women said they had to buy food or go hungry at the Drake
because, as Muslims, they could not eat the pork that turned up several times a
week on the menu. Hasan and her sons, 12 to 17, said they ate little at the
Drake but juice, milk and bread. Most of their meals were Raisin Bran and Honey
Nut Cheerios they bought at nearby markets.

Complaints about food at the Drake persisted even after staff members began
serving more chicken, fish and vegetarian items, because they used the same
utensils to serve both pork and the other dishes, Yusuf said.

Officials have not received recent complaints about security at the hotel, said
Pat Mack, human services program manager for Hennepin County. The hotel receives
$26.50 a night for each client the county sends. An average of 300 homeless
families seek aid from the county each day, and the Drake, with 150 rooms,
houses many who cannot find space in shelters.

A manager at the Drake, Tim Treiber, said that the Somali women's allegations
concerning the food and security at the hotel were "totally false." He said the
hotel had taken steps to serve appropriate food and to ensure residents'
security. He declined to discuss Hasan's eviction, which occurred Sept. 13, the
same day Hasan was interviewed about her stay at the Drake.

Last week, after taking the family to a motel and charging the room on her
personal credit card, Yusuf was trying to find emergency housing for them. She
also was to meet with Peter Bast, a community builder with the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development in Minneapolis, who attended the association's
news conference at Yusuf's invitation. Bast said he hoped to help the
association apply to programs that make $6 million available yearly to provide
housing for the homeless in Hennepin County.

"Somalian women are vulnerable," Bast said. "Regardless of your race or
immigration status, there's a terrible crisis for affordable housing. I don't
think it's going to be a lot better in five or 10 months or five or 10 years."

TO LEARN MORE
The Somalian Women's Association (www.somalianwomenassociation.org) provides
free support groups; English and basic skills classes; information related to
housing, immigration and legal issues; and other services to Somali women of all
clans. To volunteer, seek assistance, or make a donation, e-mail
swa-org@somalianwomenassociation.org or call (612) 870-7001.
Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 4 Photos: Ginger Pinson, Pioneer Press
1) After being evicted from an overflow shelter in Minneapolis on
Sept. 13, Khadija Hasan and her four sons were relocated to a motel by
the Somalian Women's Association. Here, Hasan speaks with a Somali
friend on the telephone as son Ritwan Badel, 12, watches television
and Khadar Badel, 16, reads a newspaper. The refugee family, like many
headed by Somali women, has had a difficult time since arriving in the
Twin Cities.
2) Khadar Badel, 16, reads through some course work he did while
enrolled in school in Tennessee last year. The Somali refugee and his
family, which is headed by his mother, moved to Minnesota in May when
they were unable to find affordable housing in Tennessee. Fluent in
five languages, including English and French, Badel is eager to return
to school but can't do so until his family finds permanent housing in
the Twin Cities.
3) Fadumo Buruf speaks with Amal Yusuf, director of the Somalian
Women's Association, while Buruf and her 7-year-old son, Abdul Kadir
Ali, await treatment at the Hennepin County Medical Center in
Minneapolis. Buruf said she and her four children were accosted in
front of the Francis Drake Hotel, an overflow homeless shelter in
Minneapolis.
4) Khadija Hasan tells how she and her children were assaulted outside
an overflow shelter for homeless families. [Appeared in Early Edition]

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      November 5, 2000 Sunday CITY EDITION

CLASHING AND DASHING;
4TH DISTRICT: TWO AIM TO END DFL DOMINANCE

BYLINE: DEBRA O'CONNOR STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 472 words


In the final weekend before Tuesday's election, candidates for Minnesota's 4th
Congressional District seat dashed from city to city, tailoring their messages
to affluent suburbanites, struggling immigrants, senior citizens, elementary
school children - even to hockey buffs.

The district, which includes Ramsey County and the northern suburbs of Dakota
County, has an open seat. Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party candidate Betty McCollum
is favored to keep it Democratic, as it has been for more than 50 years.

But Republican candidate Linda Runbeck, who lags in the polls, hopes to benefit
from the district's growing suburban population. Independence Party candidate
Tom Foley hopes his dark-horse candidacy will attract new and disillusioned
voters.

Runbeck spent the early afternoon Saturday on St. Paul's University Avenue at
the entrance of a Hmong and Thai grocery. Tucked into the fliers she handed to
shoppers was a sheet beginning "Nyob Zoo Pej Xeem Hmoob," or "Hello, Hmong
community." Runbeck, a state senator, has sought to appeal to Southeast Asian
immigrants on foreign policy and human rights.

Then Runbeck headed to the upscale Shoreview Community Center, where she
approached parents watching their children swoosh down the water slide.

"We're trying to keep more money in the family budget," Runbeck told them.

Meanwhile, Foley took advantage of his biggest asset and used Gov. Jesse Ventura
as the featured attraction of his five-stop "Minnesota Maverick Tour." At the
Martin Luther King Center in St. Paul, dozens of people heard Ventura say that
Minnesota could be the third-party experiment for the nation.

At the next stop, the Mounds View Banquet and Conference Center, a handful of
people showed up to hear Foley's speech emphasizing his independence from
special-interest money and from party interference. Foley also went to Croatian
Hall in South St. Paul, where hockey enthusiasts gathered; La Placita on St.
Paul's West Side; and Amusement City in Maplewood.

McCollum, who spent much of Saturday at Democratic rallies with union supporters
and celebrities, had a less frenetic Friday. She spent the morning in White Bear
Lake, where she dropped in on a coffee shop, a training center for sheet-metal
workers and Dumont's House of Beauty, and repeated her campaign themes - a
better education system, a broader health insurance coverage, a cleaner
environment.

Then she spent a precious hour not campaigning at Highwood Hills Elementary
School in St. Paul, where in response to a letter from sixth-grader Tiffaney
Radman, she came to play board games.

She didn't do so well at Yahtzee, she ruefully told the class, but that was all
right.

"I'm saving all my luck for Election Day," she said.

Debra O'Connor can be reached at doconnor@pioneerpress.com and (651) 228-5453.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story: 6th District: Luther, Kline spar over mailing

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 29, 2000 Friday CITY EDITION

CENSUS: MORE OF US, MORE DIVERSE;
U.S. IS A RECORD 281.4 MILLION ON TIDE OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Tony Pugh WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Massive immigration helped drive the U.S. population to a record 281.4 million
and will contribute to the shift of 24 congressional seats in 18 states by 2002,
the Census Bureau reported Thursday.

The first detailed data from the 2000 census showed that the U.S. population
grew 13.2 percent, to 281,421,906, in the past decade. It totaled 248,709,873 in
1990. The new figure was higher than expected, reflecting especially strong
growth in the South and West.

Northeastern and Midwestern states grew more slowly, as aging baby boomers moved
to warmer locales throughout the 1990s and as displaced industrial workers
sought jobs elsewhere.

Immigrants, mainly from Asia, the Caribbean and South America, accounted for
about 40 percent of the population increase since 1990, said Charles Keely,
professor of international migration at the School of Foreign Service at
Georgetown University in Washington. Their surge is on the scale of the
migration of Germans, Italians and Eastern Europeans at the turn of the 20th
century.

California, with 33.9 million residents, remains the most populous state. Texas,
which counted 20.9 million, climbed past New York's 19 million to rank second.
Wyoming, with 493,782 people, is the state with the lowest population.

Nevada's 66.3 percent jump in population to 1,998,257 was the nation's greatest.
Arizona was second, with a 40 percent increase. Its population is 5,130,632.

The District of Columbia was the only area to experience a population decline in
the '90s. About 35,000 D.C. residents - 5.7 percent - moved elsewhere.

Population shifts won eight states additional seats in the U.S. House. Arizona,
Florida, Georgia and Texas each gained two. California, Colorado, Nevada and
North Carolina gained one apiece.

New York and Pennsylvania each lost two seats. Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana,
Michigan, Mississippi, Ohio, Oklahoma and Wisconsin each lost one seat.

When reapportionment is complete, each member of the House will represent about
647,000 people.

Adjusting congressional districts to reflect population changes often affects a
state's power in Congress.

"The likelihood is greater that a senior member from a large state is going to
chair a major committee," said Jeffrey Wice, a Washington lawyer and political
consultant. "And the more members a state has, the more members they can have on
different committees to protect a state's interests."

Reapportionment - adjustment of the number of congressional districts for each
state - also alters Electoral College membership. Each state gets an Electoral
College vote for each senator and one for each congressional district.

Census Bureau Director Kenneth Prewitt said the higher-than-expected count could
mean that the bureau was successful in reaching more undocumented residents.

He praised the million-plus employees and volunteers who helped complete the
head count on time and $300 million under the projected 10-year, $7 billion
budget.

Later Thursday, President Clinton thanked the American public for its increased
participation in the census effort.

"With their help, the country is better equipped to meet the needs of every
American and the challenges in the 21st century," Clinton said.

In Prewitt's estimation, the head count attained a "good level of accuracy." The
1990 census missed about 8.4 million people - many of them minorities and
children - and counted another 4.4 million twice.

In the 1990 census, Native Americans were missed at 15 times the rate of whites;
blacks at six to seven times the rate of whites; Asians at three times the rate
of whites, and children at twice the rate of adults, said Commerce Department
Undersecretary Robert Shapiro.

To ensure a fairer and more accurate count, the bureau is considering issuing
two sets of numbers, the regular head-counted figures and an adjusted count
using scientific estimates, or "sampling," to account for people who were
missed. A decision will be made in February, Prewitt said.

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1998 that "sampling" could not be used for
reapportionment, but it left the door open for its use in redrawing the lines in
congressional districts.

Online: www.census.gov

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See accompanying story: Minnesota keeps all its congressional seats, but
Midwest overall is losing population

GRAPHIC: Map: Pioneer Press
U.S. House reapportionment
(see microfilm)

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 25, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANT DIVERSITY GROWS IN MINNESOTA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 509 words


Minnesota attracted more immigrants from a wider range of countries during most
of the 1990s than in past decades, according to a Minnesota Planning report.

Minnesota's jobs, educational opportunities and reputation as a safe haven for
refugees - as well as substantial populations of recent immigrants already
living in Minnesota - attracted people from other lands, according to the report
released this week by the state planning agency.

About 40 percent of the immigrants were refugees, a higher percentage than in
any other state, the report said.

Immigrants from the former Soviet Union, Somalia, Bosnia, Mexico, India and
China topped the list of newcomers.

From 1990 to 1998, 67,777 immigrants came to Minnesota, according to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Nationwide, there were 9,141,551
immigrants in that time span.

The report, "Immigrants in Minnesota: An Increasingly Diverse Population,"
captures many of the changes that the state's schools, workplaces and
communities have witnessed in recent years.

African immigrants did not come to Minnesota in large numbers during the 1980s,
but that changed during the 1990s. In 1997, Somalis were the largest group of
Minnesota immigrants with 1,008 arriving that year.

The number of Russians immigrating to Minnesota increased sharply after the
disintegration of the Soviet Union. In 1998, the 651 immigrants from the former
Soviet republics constituted the biggest group of Minnesota immigrants, followed
by Somalis with 582. Years of civil war have caused many Somalis to flee to the
United States.

All but six Minnesota counties have some schoolchildren who do not speak English
at home. Asian languages make up the largest language group spoken by students,
with Hmong speakers accounting for two-thirds of those students, the report
said.

Hospitals are also facing a widening language barrier.

"It's changed the demographics of the population we see," said Hennepin County
Medical Center administrator Jeff Spartz.

Of the 400,000 patients served last year, 102,000 required interpreters. That
represented a 25 percent increase in such services over 1999, Spartz said.

While Minnesota outstrips its Upper Midwestern neighbors when it comes to
attracting immigrants, the state's numbers pale in comparison to such large
coastal states as California, New York, Texas and Florida.

"We're not the focal point, but we do receive a rather interesting mix of
people," said state demographer Tom Gillaspy. "There are people who believe
we're the center of change because it seems to be very large, when in fact most
of the change is on the coasts."

While he can't predict what Minnesota's family portrait will look like 10 or 20
years from now, Gillaspy said one thing is for sure: It'll be different from
today.

"Our population will be much more diverse, we believe, in large part because
we're starting from a point of relatively less racial and ethnic diversity than
the rest of the country," he said.

ONLINE Visit www.mnplan.state.mn.us to see the report.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 25, 2001 Sunday CITY EDITION

NEWCOMERS SAY ADJUSTING IS DIFFICULT;
FEMALE IMMIGRANTS DISCUSS CHALLENGES AT ANNUAL EVENT

BYLINE: Nancy Ngo, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 506 words


St. Paul resident Olga Zoltai was 13 years old when her family came to the
United States from Hungary in 1949. Reidun Hanson was a 3-year-old recovering
from the measles when her family from Norway pulled into New York harbor in
1952.

Mary Yang came to the United States from Laos in 1979. Tsehai Wodajo of
Minneapolis arrived from Ethiopia in 1990.

The four women shared their immigrant experiences with about 400 others during
the sixth annual International Women's Day Celebration on Saturday at the
University of Minnesota's St. Paul campus. They talked about preserving their
native cuisines, keeping family and cultural bonds strong while balancing
educations and jobs.

Despite their similarities, the stories showed that now there seems to be more
difficulties for immigrants adjusting to American society.

Zoltai compares her experience to the women she encounters at her workplace, the
International Institute of Minnesota, which gives legal counseling to immigrants
and refugees. Zoltai said her family had some difficult times, but overall "it
was easy to adjust. I never felt like an outcast. ... (Mine) was a very
different life from the one that immigrants and refugees have today."

More recent immigrants find that working hard and contributing to the local
community has not been enough to gain cultural acceptance.

"It was easier for them to adjust," Wodajo said about Zoltai and Hanson, noting
their cultures have similarities to what existed in Minnesota at the time. She
said cultural clashes between new immigrants - many of the African or Asian -
and local society are greater.

Wodajo, of south Minneapolis, is a family and community involvement coordinator
at Roosevelt High School. She said keeping the family together is often the
priority for women from Ethiopia.

Wodajo said, locally, not everyone understands why domestic abuse against women
from Ethiopia may go unreported.

"Because of immigration laws, the men would be deported. Women don't want that.
There's a big value in keeping the family intact," she said.

Yang, who spoke at a separate workshop about Hmong culture and her experience in
Laos, said equally challenging is Hmong resistance to accepting parts of
American culture.

"I still feel responsible for everything from cooking to cleaning. I think it's
not going to change for older and middle-aged (Hmong)," she said. "But with the
younger generations, the husband and wives help each other out."

Yang said language also makes adjustment difficult. She said many older
generation Hmong do not speak English well.

The barrier of language seemed to affect all cultures. Hanson recalled how she
was often talked about in her south Minneapolis neighborhood during the 1950s
because her family spoke with an accent.

She said, "We were invited to almost everyone's homes. But we found out later it
was only so people could say they had the Norwegian family over."

Nancy Ngo, who covers north suburban communities, can be reached at
nngo@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2149.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
Alex Schmeichen, 5, of Excelsior and her grandfather John Collins
study storyboards depicting the life of Mary Yang. Yang, a war
survivor and immigrant from Laos, was a featured speaker Saturday at
the sixth annual International Women's Day Celebration at the
University of Minnesota's St. Paul campus.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      March 20, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

BAIL IS $750,000 FOR MAN ACCUSED IN DISMEMBERMENT

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 190 words


Bail was set at $750,000 Monday for a Russian immigrant living in Eden Prairie
accused of killing and dismembering his wife in February.

Pyotr Shmelev was sent back to jail after his bail was set during his first
court appearance Monday in Hennepin County District Court.

The 29-year-old computer engineer was charged with second-degree murder Friday
in the death of his 30-year-old wife, Svetlana Pedash. According to police, he
stabbed her multiple times on Feb. 24 during an argument and then used an
electric saw to dismember her body.

Portions of her body were then discarded as he drove south from Eden Prairie to
Missouri, police said. He kept her head, though, in the trunk of his car. He
turned himself in to police on March 14.

According to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, Shmelev was a
permanent resident alien of the United States and could face deportation if
convicted.

He and his wife were married in 1995 in Indiana. They moved to Minnesota about a
year ago when he took a job as an Internet consultant. The couple's 4-year-old
daughter is now in the custody of her godparents in New York.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 3, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

U.S. POPULATION HITS 10-YEAR GROWTH SPURT;
BIRTHRATE, LONGEVITY, IMMIGRATION FACTOR INTO GROWTH SPURT

BYLINE: Tony Pugh, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A robust birthrate, increased longevity and explosive immigration helped the
United States add 32.7 million people in the 1990s, the largest 10-year
population increase in U.S. history, the Census Bureau reported Monday.

While most of the growth occurred in the West and South, all states grew during
the 1990s - the only time in the 20th century that happened.

"I think this was a turnaround decade for the U.S. in a lot of ways," said
William Frey, a University of Michigan demographer. "We're refueling our
population in the same way we did at the beginning of the century, with new
immigrants from all over world.

"That growth, the increased diversity and the economic boom have put us ahead of
the starting line of all industrial countries as we move into the new century,"
Frey said.

The U.S. population grew at a faster rate in the 1950s than the 1990s (18.4
percent vs. 16.3 percent). But the addition of 32.7 million U.S. residents in
the 1990s topped the 28 million added in the 1950s.

More than half of the 1990s' population increase was due to births surpassing
deaths, said John Long, chief of the Census Bureau's population division. The
U.S. fertility rate held at about 2 children per adult woman.

Immigration, mainly from Asia, the Caribbean and South America, accounted for at
least one-third of the population increase, Long said, and increased longevity
much of the rest. The impact of immigration, because it includes undocumented
illegal immigrants, is hard to measure, experts said.

The Census Bureau's improved counting accuracy, particularly of minorities and
their children, is another factor in the apparent record growth of the U.S.
population to 283 million, Long said.

In a continuing trend, the West grew the fastest of any region (20 percent),
adding 10.4 million people during the 1990s for a total of 63.2 million.
Nevada's 66 percent growth rate made it the nation's fastest-growing state for
the fourth consecutive decade. The nation's next five fastest-growing states
were Arizona (40 percent), Colorado (31 percent), Utah (30 percent) and Idaho
(28.5 percent).

The slowest-growing states were North Dakota (0.5 percent), West Virginia (0.8
percent) and Pennsylvania (3.4 percent). The District of Columbia lost 5.7
percent of its population.

The South gained 14.8 million people in the 1990s, a 17 percent increase, and is
now home to more than 100 million Americans.

Among southern states, Georgia grew fastest - 26 percent.

The Midwest added 4.7 million people for an 8 percent population gain. Minnesota
grew fastest, adding 544,000 residents for a 12.4 percent population increase.
Illinois and Michigan had the region's greatest numeric growth, by 988,000 and
643,000 respectively.

Online: www.census.gov

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: Pioneer Press
[Population changes for largest U.S. metropolitan areas]
Source: U.S. Census
[See microfilm for complete graphic]

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 28, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

PIONEER PRESS WINS STATE AP SERVICE AWARD
IMMIGRATION SERIES, 'DYING WELL' STORIES CITED FOR EXCELLENCE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 516 words


The Saint Paul Pioneer Press won the Minnesota Associated Press Association's
Public Service Award for the third straight year, taking the prize at the
group's annual meeting on Friday for coverage of the state's growing immigrant
population.

The newspaper's series, "The New Face of Minnesota," included profiles of the
Somalis, Hmong and Latinos accounting for much of the immigration, and explored
the policy issues raised by their migration.

The series was "an excellent large-staff effort telling readers about recent
immigrants and about themselves," judges wrote. They praised it for giving
readers ways to connect to the subject, including tips on book clubs and
genealogy research.

Contributors included Nick Coleman, Les Suzukamo, Cindy Boyd, Theresa Monsour,
David Hanners and Rick Shefchik.

In the midsize category, the newswriting sweepstakes award went to The Forum of
Fargo and reporters Ellen Crawford, Dave Olson, Jack Sullivan and Steven P.
Wagner for an investigative report on the massive backlog of outstanding
warrants in their area.

In the metro category, Kay Harvey of the Pioneer Press was a sweepstakes winner
for stories on a "dying well" movement; Pioneer Press photographer Richard
Marshall won for illustrating Harvey's stories.

Duluth News Tribune reporter Melanie Evans, whose beat includes health care, was
named New Journalist of the Year. Judges praised her clear writing on complex
medical issues and also noted her ability to "convey the emotional impact" of a
mining company shutdown on one family. Tammy Oseid of the Pioneer Press finished
second and Amanda Peterson of The Daily Journal of Fergus Falls was third.

Awards for Best Web Site, a new category, went to The Brainerd Daily Dispatch,
The Forum of Fargo and the Star Tribune in their divisions. Judges called the
Dispatch's Web site "a news buffet" with mastery of Web typography and
photojournalism. The Forum site was singled out for "refreshing white space with
a type structure that indexed the news"; the Star Tribune site was distinguished
by packaging and depth of content, with easy navigation of related information
and strong photo play, the judges said.

The George Moses Award for outstanding work by an Associated Press staff member
went to Minneapolis newsman Steve Karnowski. Judges described his work as
versatile and "tightly constructed, yet filled with detail, color and background
that helped bring them alive for readers."

Other MAPA awards, which are for journalism in the calendar year 2000, were
announced in advance of Friday's awards banquet.

The board elected as president Anne Jacobson, news editor for the Red Wing
Republican Eagle. Vice presidents elected were Martha Malan, nation/world editor
of the Pioneer Press; Jay Furst, managing editor of the Rochester Post Bulletin;
and Dennis Doeden, deputy editor of the Forum of Fargo.

Three at-large board members were also elected, including Chuck Gysi, managing
editor of the Austin Daily Herald; Susan Ihne, executive editor of the St. Cloud
Times; and Howard Sinker, state editor of the Star Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 30, 2001 Monday CITY EDITION

HOME, FAR AWAY FROM HOME;
FOR MANY OF THE 900 TIBETANS LIVING IN THE TWIN CITIES, THE DALAI LAMA'S ARRIVAL
A WEEK FROM TODAY WILL STIR MEMORIES OF A HOMELAND THEY MAY NEVER SEE AGAIN.

BYLINE: Ben Chanco, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1327 words


When the Dalai Lama of Tibet arrives in the Twin Cities next Monday, he won't be
among strangers in a place known for its Nordic immigrants.

He will find the second-largest of 21 clusters of Tibetan exiles in the United
States - about 900 - all eager to be in his presence. The only larger community
is in the New York area, with about 2,000 immigrants.

His Holiness, the religious and political leader of the Tibetan government in
exile based in India, also will find that like him, these expatriates have
gripping stories of escape from the Chinese in Tibet and unfinished tales of the
difficulties of living and working in a foreign environment.

And all Tibetans share hope that they may someday go back to a free homeland
north of the Himalayas, a place where Buddhism supports every facet of life.

Until - if ever - that day arrives, Tibetans have made their home in this state,
gaining footholds in all walks of life. Tibetan immigrants have found work,
established a cultural school and a monastery, as well as welcomed a steady
stream of visits from Tibetan doctors and religious leaders.

Despite its gains, the community's losses - like those of other immigrants who
fled war or famine or injustice - are never far away.

Thinly Woser, for one, would want to visit a spot in Tibet, about a day's
journey from the Indian border, that still haunts his memory: the place he last
saw his father alive.

"He got shot by the Chinese when we were escaping from Tibet in 1959," said
Woser, now 45 and a Minneapolis resident. "He was dying. He couldn't talk. But
by waving his hands, he said, 'Run away.' We had to leave him."

Dechen Lhewa, 23, a Macalester College student whose parents escaped from Tibet
in 1990, still remembers the jeer "chink" from a motorist as she biked to school
in Missoula, Mont., where her family and 14 Tibetans originally settled.

"We moved here, and the others also are all moving away from Missoula," she
said. "We want to be closer to other Tibetans."

Thupten Dadak, 48, a former Tibetan Buddhist monk who married a Minnesotan and
opened a Stillwater business, talks about life in his old Tibet, with its
beautiful landscape and mountains, as "something like living in heaven." His
hometown of Tsomda, near the base of Mount Everest, would be a place he wouldn't
hesitate to return to - if Tibet becomes free again, he said.

"When we first came from Tibet, we had nothing," said Dadak, the second Tibetan
to move to Minnesota. "When we go back, we can live very peacefully, ride our
horse and yak, and live in a tent for two to three months. Somebody can take
over my store and give all the discounts."

Coming to Minnesota

Ann Ayrault, executive director of the Tibetan American Foundation of Minnesota
in Minneapolis, said these three represent several waves of Tibetan immigrants
to the state, nearly all of whom live in the metro area.

The first was a trickle of exactly two: Dadak and Namgyal Wangdu, of
Minneapolis, who also had married a Minnesotan. Both helped with the next group
that came after Congress passed a bill in 1990 granting 1,000 U.S. visas to
Tibetan refugees in India and Nepal. The Twin Cities area was designated by the
Tibetan government in exile as one of the clusters where 160 men and women ages
18 to 45 would settle.

Spouses and children under age 21 were then brought over by new immigrants
already established here. In 1997, those who could become citizens started
another migration of adult children and parents of the original 160.

The current effort is made up of Tibetans from other clusters who are deciding
to move from other parts of the country to Minnesota to be close to relatives
and friends and to find work. Tibetan officials estimate that of the state's
Tibetan population, about 35 percent have come from other areas of the United
States.

"The word gets around that there are good jobs here, and that Minnesota is a
nice and reasonably safe place to live," said Ayrault, who got involved first as
a volunteer in 1992 finding host families for the immigrant Tibetans. "They want
to be in a place where they have friends."

Early founders

They can't find better friends than Wangdu and Dadak, who are comforted in the
burgeoning numbers of their community.

Those first years, Wangdu, who has a demanding job, spent hours driving his own
truck to move the new immigrants around.

"He would come anytime, anywhere," said Wangyal Ritzekura, 48, of Minneapolis,
who was selected by lottery for one of the 1,000 visas. "No Tibetan had a car at
that time."

Dadak and his wife opened their home in New Brighton and their gift shop in
Stillwater to the work of resettlement. This meant spending many days from dawn
until midnight finding jobs and sponsors for others. And they did it for free.

"His Holiness always said that each Tibetan in America should represent the 6
million in Tibet," said Dadak, who is referred to as the father of the Tibetan
community in Minnesota. "I've tried to fulfill whatever His Holiness wants us to
accomplish."

Dadak, who divorced and remarried, continues to open his home to others with his
wife, Nancy. Six visiting monks, who do Tibetan community service such as
prayers for healing, are living with them now.

Ritzekura was not eager at first to go to the United States with his prized
visa. "I was a teacher, with good pay, good benefits, and employed by the Indian
government," he said. "My friend, who was also a teacher, and I realized that
life would be completely different here. There would be no teaching jobs, and
the social respect we enjoyed in India would not be there. We would just be
ordinary people in the community. But the living standards are much higher here.

"We also decided we could play a more active role in the Tibetan community in
the United States," he said. In India, those leadership roles already are filled
with other educated Tibetans.

So he moved to the United States with a $100 bill in his pocket. "I was lucky,"
he said. "Many of my friends came with barely $15."

Since his arrival, Ritzekura has been a baker, a dishwasher, a cook who
specialized in making escargot, a shampoo packager and a suit presser. He is now
a home school liaison for the Minneapolis school district.

Dechen Lhewa, who is graduating in May from Macalester with a degree in
psychology, wants to use her skills as a therapist to work with refugees.

"A lot of them have suffered from trauma," she said. "People may be physically
healthy, but not mentally. Some lose hope."

Ayrault said Tibetans hold a range of jobs in the Twin Cities, including as
dishwashers, financial analysts, engineers and waiters. The health care field
particularly attracts Tibetans, she said.

"They do everything from washing floors at hospitals to being a doctor," she
said. "It's consistent with their philosophy of compassion. It's so much a part
of Buddhism."

The visit

The Tibetan immigrants, of course, are excited and proud to have the Dalai Lama
visit the Twin Cities.

Karma Youngdue, 25, of St. Louis Park and a graduate of St. Olaf's College in
Northfield, said many Americans have read the books about compassion and love
written by His Holiness.

"But his presence makes so much difference," he said. "It's a different
feeling."

Youngdue said he personally felt that difference when he was a press
photographer in India during a visit by the Dalai Lama.

"When he walked in, the whole place bloomed," he said. "It was like when winter
changes to spring. When he left, it was like when fall changes to winter."

Kalsang Thuntsok, 30, of Minneapolis, who moved to Minnesota after graduating
from Berea College in Kentucky, said the Dalai Lama is the ultimate leader
Tibetans look to. But he hopes the visit also reaches others.

"We would like the non-Tibetans to pay attention to the political situation of
Tibet too," Thuntsok said.

Ben Chanco can be reached at rchanco@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5256.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 Photos: Chris Polydoroff, Pioneer Press
1) Tibetan monks Ngawang Rapgyal, left, and Lobsang Jungnes work on a mask of
the Buddha of Compassion at the Heart of the Beast Mask and Puppet Theater in
Minneapolis. Tibetans consider the Dalai Lama the Buddha of Compassion.
2) A monk lays a strip of moistened newsprint onto the mask-in-progress of the
Buddha of Compassion.
3) Monk Lobsang Jungnes pauses from painting decorative stripes on a prayer
wheel to be used in the annual May Day parade by the Heart of the Beast Puppet
and Mask Theater in Minneapolis.
Drawing
Dalai Lama

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      May 23, 2001 Wednesday CITY EDITION

TWIN CITIES RUN COUNTER TO NATIONAL TRENDS

BYLINE: TODD NELSON STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 644 words


The Twin Cities grew younger at the core in the 1990s, with immigrants and
people moving from other states helping St. Paul and Minneapolis turn back the
clock as the state and the nation aged.

Residents of St. Paul and Minneapolis also lived with slightly more people under
one roof than in the past and were more likely to have children, again running
contrary to state and national trends in part because of newcomers from other
countries and other states.

The cities saw waves of immigrants from Eastern Africa, Asia and Central and
South America among other areas in the 1990s, moving to join family members and
find work thanks to the state's strong economy. And for more than a decade,
Minnesota has taken in more people from other states and countries than it has
seen move out.

"I'm guessing that migration and immigration have quite a bit to say about
that," said Tom Gillaspy, state demographer. "People who move, particularly
people who move long distances, tend to be younger."

Contrary to many areas in the state, St. Paul had a decline in its 65-and-over
population and a relatively sharp increase in the number of children under 5,
Gillaspy said.

While specific numbers on immigrants and people moving from other states are not
yet available, the influx appears to have influenced census results that showed
Minneapolis and St. Paul bucking several key trends.

"That would be consistent with immigration," said Martha McMurry of the State
Demographic Center said of the median-age and household findings, contained in
census data being released today. "You would expect immigrants would have a
younger population living in larger households and would be more likely to have
children."

While aging baby boomers pushed the nation's median age last year to an all-time
high of 35.3 and Minnesota's to 35.4, the median age -- the figure at which half
the population is older and half younger -- fell in St. Paul and Minneapolis, to
31 and 31.2, respectively.

The gap was narrower 10 years ago, when Minnesota's median age was 32.4,
compared with 31.2 in St. Paul and 31.5 in Minneapolis. At the same time,
surrounding counties such as Washington, Dakota and Anoka have aged, Gillaspy
said.

"My guess is that the longer the distance away, the less likely that people
would have heard about Woodbury or Apple Valley relative to having heard about
Minneapolis or St. Paul," Gillaspy said. "For many people, particularly young
families, there's a tendency to move into cities and inner-ring suburbs and then
flow outward from there."

At the same time, the average household size rose slightly in both cities during
the last decade to 2.46 people in St. Paul and 2.25 in Minneapolis. The average
Minnesota household had 2.52 people last year, down from 2.58.

The percentage of family households with children was steady at 22.6 percent in
Minneapolis and rose in St. Paul to 29.1 percent from 28.1 percent. Statewide,
the share of family households with children fell to 33 percent from 34.7
percent.

In St. Paul, the youth movement appears to be a result in large part of racial
and ethnic minority groups that have grown rapidly and tend to have more
children, said Mark Vander Schaaf, research and geographic information systems
coordinator for the city's Planning and Economic Development Department.

More than half the city's 35,488 Asians are under 18, Vander Schaaf said, citing
census data. The total includes tens of thousands of Hmong refugees who began
resettling in St. Paul from Laos after the Vietnam War, joined in the late 1990s
by thousands of Hmong who moved from California. Hmong totals from the 2000
census are not yet available.

"Clearly the growth of the Asian population would relate to all three of the
trends," Vander Schaaf said.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        May 25, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

14 IMMIGRANTS DIE IN TREK ACROSS DEVIL'S PATH;
12 OTHER MEXICANS SURVIVE IN ARIZONA SMUGGLING ATTEMPT

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: YUMA, ARIZ.


Walk a couple of hours and you'll reach a highway, the smugglers said. We'll be
back with water.

Members of the group, all of them from Mexico, apparently had no idea they would
have to cross more than 50 miles of desert to reach the closest road. And they
lacked the water and the know-how to survive the blast-furnace 115-degree heat.

Thursday, five days after the men and teen-age boys set out to enter the United
States illegally through Arizona, 14 of them were dead from exposure. It was the
deadliest attempt to cross the border in Arizona history.

They were caught in an area Border Patrol agents call "The Devil's Path," brutal
country east of Yuma. The area has become increasingly popular with border
crossers because of stepped-up patrols elsewhere.

Twelve people survived, with at least one telling doctors he drank his own urine
in desperation.

Fighting the same heat that ravaged the immigrants, searchers followed tracks in
hopes of finding other survivors. By midday Thursday, Border Patrol agents
believed there could be one more person still in the desert.

Mexican officials have identified a suspect believed to be one of the smugglers.
The smugglers could face charges of immigrant smuggling and murder, said Ruben
Beltran, consul general in Phoenix.

The search started Wednesday morning when Border Patrol agents found four
sunburned, dehydrated men, who told them of others in trouble.

Over the next 24 hours, search parties discovered six clusters of immigrants --
some living, some dead -- who had scattered. Two men made it within 10 miles of
Interstate 8, the highway they were trying to reach.

The survivors were treated for severe dehydration and kidney damage. Doctors do
not expect to release them for at least a week and said some will have lifelong
kidney problems.

The Border Patrol said 106 people died while crossing Arizona's deserts during
the 12-month period that ended on Sept. 30.

Online: Border Patrol: www.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/lawenfor/bpatrol/

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 26, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

THE TRUTH ABOUT ISLAM;
MINNESOTA LUTHERANS AND MUSLIMS COME TOGETHER TO CHALLENGE THE MISPERCEPTIONS
THAT HAVE LED MANY AMERICANS TO FEAR AND DISTRUST THEIR ISLAMIC NEIGHBORS.

BYLINE: STEPHEN SCOTT, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: EXPRESS; Pg. E10

LENGTH: 1229 words


The immigrants of the 1800s met the immigrants of the 1970s and '80s last
weekend in St. Paul.

"Muslims and Lutherans in the Twin Cities," a two-day conference at Luther
Seminary, came about because some Lutherans in Minnesota were uncomfortable with
the proselytizing posture of some Christians toward their new Islamic neighbors.

So 150 Christians spent the weekend learning from Muslims about the origins of
Islam, the immigration of Muslims to the Twin Cities and the meaning of Islamic
scripture, customs and culture.

Christians also confronted what Islamic leaders say are stereotypes,
misperceptions and false assumptions about Muslims, whose population is
estimated at 75,000 in the Twin Cities and 100,000 in Minnesota.

"We think of Muslims as nonwhite, non-Western, non-European Arabs who hate Jews
and Christians," said Imam Matthew Ramadan, a former North Minneapolis community
organizer and Metropolitan Council member who converted to Islam in 1974. "But
we worship the same God as other monotheistic religions."

About a dozen Muslims participated in the conference, and they distanced
themselves from the oft-reported violence elsewhere in the world that
contributes to Western bias against Islam, they said.

"Muslims are accused of being terrorist, fundamentalist and extremist," said
Damon Drake of the Council on American-Islamic Relations Minnesota chapter. "But
to judge Islam by the immoral conduct of a tiny group of people is to generalize
about Christians as all being child molesters" if you know one who is.

In chapter and verse, Drake explained how the Koran, the Islamic sacred book, is
opposed to suicide bombings, holy war and other extreme acts.

" 'Islam' comes from a root word meaning peace," Drake said. "The West connotes
'jihad' as holy war, but that is foreign to Islam."

The Koran, Drake said, describes jihad as to strive and struggle in the way of
the prophet Mohammed, who received the revelation from Allah (God) upon which
Islam was founded 1,400 years ago.

The struggle has been present from the beginning, as religious historian Huston
Smith has written, because of Islam's uncompromising monotheism and its
challenge to an unjust social order. Yet, Islam has grown to more than 1.1
billion adherents worldwide, second only to Christianity.

In its earliest centuries, its strict belief in no God but Allah challenged the
polytheistic practices of sixth-century Arabia. Today, it might threaten
Christians who profess belief in the trinity of God, Jesus Christ and Holy
Spirit.

Muslims consider Jesus to be a prophet of special strength and character,
Ramadan said, as they consider Abraham, Moses and Mohammed. They do not accord
him the status of divinity.

But Christians' greatest suspicions about Islam aren't necessarily about
theology, said Charles Amjad-Ali, a Luther Seminary professor. Neither are most
of the discussions between the two traditions. "Theological discussions always
end abruptly unless you make too many compromises" of your own tradition,
Amjad-Ali said.

Rather, it is politics that confuses the issue, he said. The West reformulated
opinions of the Arab world beginning with the Iranian hostage crisis in 1979 and
during the emergence of several fundamentalist governments in the Middle East in
the next decade.

"After the collapse of communism in 1989-90, the attention shifted to the danger
of Islamic fundamentalism," Amjad-Ali said. "All Muslims were contaminated.
Islam in general became a threat."

Muslims, in fact, argued against Western media's equation of militant groups
with "Islamic fundamentalism" - which they say is a misnomer because all of
Islam holds to the fundamental inerrancy of the Koran.

Meanwhile, more and more Muslims came to Minnesota. The earliest Islamic
immigrants, from Syria and Lebanon in the early 20th century, came primarily to
St. Paul but quickly assimilated, Ramadan said. The current generations of
Muslims in the Twin Cities are traced to the local emergence of the Nation of
Islam in the early 1950s, or the creation in 1956 of the Muslim Student
Association at the University of Minnesota, one of the nation's first chapters.

The former were mostly African-American converts, the latter mostly students
from overseas. As the Nation of Islam moved toward integration with traditional
Islam in 1975, the two parallel tracks of Muslims in the Twin Cities began to
converge.

Their numbers have grown from about 45,000 in the Twin Cities only five years
ago, Ramadan said. Many today are recent immigrants, many from Somalia; current
students; or first- or second-generation members of the student generation of
decades past that remained here.

"I am hopeful we can have cooperation between all good people of faith," said
Makram El-Amin, imam (or leader) of Masjid An-Nur, a Minneapolis mosque. "The
majority of things Muslims find good, our Christian and Jewish friends find good
as well. It is the same with things we find distasteful."

Muslims are used to explaining their traditions to Westerners, as they did last
weekend.

"When I was a Lutheran, I never explained being a Lutheran to anybody," said
Clareen Menzies, who converted to Islam in 1977. "Now, I explain Islam at least
once a day to somebody."

The next step might be to hold another conference similar to last weekend's, but
next time at the Islamic Center of Minnesota in Fridley, said Hamdy El-Sawaf,
executive director of the center.

"This country allows the most freedom for us to practice our religion than any
country on the planet," El-Amin said. "I feel we would be cheating the world if
we don't work together."

Muslims in the Twin Cities

Muslims in the Twin Cities numbered between 35,000 and 45,000 as recently as
five years ago, according to Matthew Ramadan of the Muslim American Society.
Today, there are an estimated 75,000 in the metro area and 100,000 in Minnesota.

A profile of typical Muslims in the Twin Cities, based on their age today,
according to Ramadan:

- 0-5 years old: Likely a child of recent immigrants, probably from Somalia and
other areas in the Horn of Africa and East Africa.

- 5-12: May be a recent immigrant or child of students who immigrated 25 to 30
years ago. Many are in public schools, confronting American holidays and
deciding whether to share their faith with others.

- 12-18: Likely a second-generation Muslim whose parents came to Minnesota in
the 1970s and stayed. Proud of their faith and may debate issues with
classmates.

- 18-25: May be a student, recent immigrant or second generation. Seeking
independence from parents and questioning strict rules about dress, attending
mosque, etc. Recent immigrants more strongly emphasize Islamic identity.

- 25-35: If not in university setting, likely a recent immigrant. Large recent
influx has strained community's resources. Many receive assistance from Lutheran
Social Service and Catholic Charities, in addition to Islamic resource centers.

- 35-45: Likely a student who came in the 1970s. Many were Arab-speaking, such
as Egyptians and Palestinians, and many were from India and Pakistan, especially
in response to a demand for medical doctors and engineers.

- 45-older: Likely have been here since the 1970s, with grown children.
Beginning to be treated with a lot of respect.

Stephen Scott may be reached at (651) 228-5526 or sscott@pioneerpress.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        May 27, 2001 Sunday CITY EDITION

GLOBAL PALATES;
ETHNIC FOODS ARE BIG BUSINESS IN AMERICA AS U.S. TASTES EXPAND. BUT GETTING A
BITE OF THE PROFITS TAKES HEAVY MARKETING AND LOTS OF HARD WORK.

BYLINE: DOREEN HEMLOCK, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 1090 words


Belgian chocolates at supermarkets. Thai restaurants at strip malls. Mexican
beers at corner bars. Jamaican beef patties at school cafeterias.

Forget such American staples as meatloaf and mashed potatoes: U.S. palates are
going global. Today, Americans spend more on salsa than on ketchup and import
more than one-third of all fresh fruits.

International or ethnic foods are big business and getting bigger -- both for
imports and products made in the United States. By 2010, ethnic food sales
should reach $75 billion a year, accounting for 15 percent of growth in U.S.
food sales this decade, said market researcher Promar International of
Alexandria, Va. Rising immigration and more baby boomers traveling abroad are
spurring the growth.

So, how can an entrepreneur bite into that market and savor profits?

It takes far more than finding a fabulous olive oil in Tuscany, lining up a
reliable lemongrass supplier in Thailand, or even landing a contract with a U.S.
supermarket chain, industry executives say.

To really earn your supper in the ethnic foods business, get ready to spend
heavily on marketing and distribution to reach the U.S. mainstream. Or for those
with limited cash, expect to pound lots of pavement to reach smaller gourmet
shops or stores in Hispanic, Asian or other immigrant communities.

Along the way, watch out for details, such as translating foreign-language
labels into English, meeting U.S. nutrition standards and adapting package sizes
for convenience-minded U.S. consumers.

Beer illustrates the trend. Over the past decade, imports surged to 10 percent
of U.S. beer sales by volume, doubling their market share, with Mexico's Corona
brand responsible for much of that growth.

Gold Coast Beverage Distributors Inc. of Pompano Beach, Fla., is cashing in. Now
one of the state's largest beer distributors, it expects $250 million in sales
this year. Imports likely will represent 60 percent of sales, up from about 30
percent five years ago and including such brands as Corona and Holland's
Heineken. And imports could reach as much as 80 percent of sales in five more
years, said chief executive Art Friedman.

But try to get Gold Coast to distribute a new imported brand, and be ready to
pay up. To build a brand name, expect to spend at least $100,000 the first year
and $150,000 the second year on marketing in competitive South Florida. And
that's just for promotions at bars, supermarkets and restaurants -- not
advertising. Corona spent more than $1.5 million on promotions in South Florida
last year, he said.

"More brands fail than succeed," said Friedman of the competitive U.S. food and
beverage market. "Getting mainstream takes a marketing plan. You need
distribution muscle to get the brand out and advertising at the point-of-sale to
get the customer to buy it."

Brazil's Werner Batista, president of Deerfield Beach, Fla.-based International
Specialty Imports Inc., learned the hard way to value the power of distribution
and marketing for U.S. mainstream success.

He started out in 1992 as most entrepreneurs do: approaching a mainstream
supermarket chain with a product that was successful overseas. When Publix
Supermarkets Inc. agreed to buy container loads of his Brazilian canned
hearts-of-palm, a vegetable used in salads and stews, Batista saw dollar signs.

But profits proved slim. Supermarket suppliers pay for shelf space with cash or
merchandise, and they must meet strict conditions, even taking back dented cans.
Then, a Costa Rica producer offered Publix another kind of heart-of-palm as
different from Batista's as, say, red and green apples -- and less expensive.
Most U.S. consumers aren't familiar with the types of heart-of-palm and didn't
know Batista's Brazilian brand anyway. Publix switched over.

"Supermarkets are looking for the cheapest product -- unless you have a brand
name," Batista said. He lacked the cash to build a brand name quickly, so he
switched tactics away from mainstream supermarkets. "I realized that I had to go
into my own distribution business and I needed more diverse imports."

That wasn't easy, however.

Batista spent years peddling door-to-door to small markets in Latino
neighborhoods, where consumers were more familiar with tropical foods. His big
break finally came in targeting markets aimed at Brazilians living in the United
States -- a growing community topping 1.5 million people, including more than
200,000 in South Florida. Brazilians knew his brands, so Batista could afford
not to spend too much on marketing and promotions.

Today, Batista's sales are doubling yearly and likely will top $6 million in
2001. He's even expanding distribution through partnerships with retailers and a
new Internet site, www.delibrazil.com, which allows Brazilians in remote areas
to buy products online.

Finding a niche also worked for Miami-based Monel Inc., a 36-year-old firm that
specializes in selling premium chocolates and gourmet products to specialty
stores, airport shops, cruise lines and other tourist-related outlets in Florida
and the Caribbean.

Imports, such as Spanish turron candy and Austrian jam, now make up 40 percent
of Monel's sales, as the company seeks to offer a unique and diverse mix of
products to thousands of mostly small outlets, said Vice President Robert P.
Walsky.

Monel fields dozens of inquiries weekly from entrepreneurs hoping to sell into
the U.S. market, but it accepts few. It will work only with suppliers that will
provide ample support -- from investments to changing product labels and
packaging to providing free samples for tastings at trade shows and at stores.

Labels can be especially tricky. Overseas suppliers often need to translate
information into English, switch from metric to U.S. measures, add U.S. bar
codes for scanners and adapt nutritional data for U.S. standards. They also may
need to switch to individually wrapped portions for more convenience-oriented
U.S. buyers or produce smaller-size packages to lower prices per box, Walsky
said.

"You need to know what you're getting into," he said. "You need to research the
market first." Still, the opportunities are huge, for those who do their
homework and make the investments.

Who would have forecast just a decade ago, for example, that the United States
would be importing 70 percent of its fresh and frozen seafood from countries as
varied as India, Argentina, Tanzania, South Africa and Taiwan? And who would
have foreseen so many tortilla factories across the United States?

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MIKE STOCKER, ASSOCIATED PRESS
Art Friedman stands on a stack of imported beers at his Pompano, Fla.,
warehouse. As Americans broaden their tastes, importers seek to target niche
markets as well as the general populace.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    June 19, 2001 Tuesday WISCONSIN EDITION

OFFICIAL SAYS STATE NEEDS IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: OCONOMOWOC, WIS.


Wisconsin must attract minorities and immigrants to increase its population and
meet work force demands, a state planning official said.

Otherwise the state is on a "suicidal course," Terry Ludeman of the state
Department of Workforce Development said at a conference of migrant workers and
employers.

"Somewhere, somehow we need the immigrant population, or we will fall behind
economically and politically," Ludeman said during the Manos Juntos/Hands
Together Conference at the Olympia Resort and Conference Center last week.

The state's Latino population increased from 93,000 in 1990 to 194,000 in 2000,
census figures show. But the base population was small to begin with, Ludeman
said.

Only 4.1 percent of Wisconsin's residents were born outside the United States,
compared with 14.8 percent in the rest of the country.

He urged Latinos to persuade others to come to Wisconsin.

"At any one time there are 80,000 to 100,000 jobs available and open in
Wisconsin, but they are not always where you live," he said, adding minority
populations are largely clustered in four or five counties in southeastern
Wisconsin.

Wisconsin's problems include:

- The low birth rate. Births dropped to 71,000 a year between 1966 and 2000 from
an average of 93,000 between 1946 and 1966.

- A large female work force. More than 71 percent of females over the age of 16
are in the Wisconsin labor market, meaning women can't significantly add to the
work force because they're already working.

- The brain drain. About 42 percent of high school graduates go to college, but
many leave because of a shortage of jobs. Women, blacks and Latinos are among
those with college degrees who leave the state.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 28, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

NEW AMERICANS BRING NEW RECORD;
SOME 1,500 IMMIGRANTS BECAME CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES ON WEDNESDAY, A
RECORD FOR NATURALIZATIONS ON ONE DAY IN MINNESOTA.

BYLINE: Todd Nelson STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 668 words


Old friends from Laos, Chong Ge Cha and Moua Yang Thao became new citizens
Wednesday, along with 1,500 other immigrants sworn in on a record-setting day
for naturalizations in Minnesota.

"I feel very happy," said Chong Ge Cha, 55, of St. Paul, who arrived here 25
years ago this week after 13 years of battling Communists in his native Laos
during the Vietnam War, where the CIA secretly recruited thousands of Hmong to
fight as U.S. allies. "I helped fight for democracy, freedom for the U.S., and
the American people, they do good for us."

Moua Yang Thao nodded in agreement, moments after both men stood for photos with
a dozen other Hmong men and women who also had just become citizens in a U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service event at Bethel College in St. Paul. The
new citizens represented 112 countries and were so numerous that the INS had
U.S. Magistrate Judge John M. Mason preside over two swearing-in ceremonies at
the college's great hall.

Those naturalized from Laos are among the thousands expected to benefit from a
federal law that allows Hmong and Lao veterans to take the U.S. citizenship test
with an interpreter's help. Congress passed the Hmong Veterans Naturalization
Act of 2000 after veterans, lacking much formal schooling and coming from a
culture where a written language is a recent development, crusaded 10 years to
win recognition of their wartime contribution and help in taking the citizenship
test. After the Communists prevailed, 100,000 Hmong left their mountain
homeland, fleeing to refugee camps outside Laos and many later resettling in the
United States.

Leading the push to pass the bill, which took effect 13 months ago, were its
authors, the late U.S. Rep. Bruce Vento of St. Paul and Sen. Paul Wellstone of
Minnesota. The original law included widows who had come to the United States
with their husbands but since has been expanded to cover widows whose husbands
were killed during the war.

The act has contributed to a boom time for naturalizations in the Twin Cities
metro area, where most of the state's estimated 60,000 Hmong live, said John
Klow, INS assistant district director. The district office in Bloomington, which
covers Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota, usually receives 440
applications for naturalization a month but has seen that number climb to 900 a
month this year.

The rush apparently has only begun, according to Hue Boua Vang, who has taught
citizenship classes and interpreted tests for many of the Hmong applicants.

Almost 200 people a night attend citizenship classes at Lao Family Community of
Minnesota, where he teaches; 10,000 have signed up to take the class. Hue Boua
Vang said 850 Hmong have passed his class alone.

Reflecting the influx of Hmong veterans applying for naturalization, Laos led
the way at Wednesday's ceremonies with 372 new citizens, followed by Vietnam,
with 160; Somalia, 114; Ethiopia, 56; India, 52, Mexico, 50; and China, 49.

The list of leading countries in part reflects Minnesota's tradition of drawing
a large share of refugees among its immigrants, Klow said. About 40 percent of
the 68,000 immigrants who came to Minnesota from 1990 to 1998 were refugees, the
highest percentage of any state, according to a Minnesota planning department
report earlier this year.

Those include newly sworn-in Yusuf Mohamoud, 26, who arrived in 1995 from
Somalia, where years of civil war have caused thousands to flee.

"I am very happy to get citizenship," said Mohamoud, 26, of St. Paul. "Before I
was a refugee. Now I can vote, pursue my education and a better life. It's a
nice day, a happy day."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

New Americans

People naturalized in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota, the jurisdiction
of the local INS office, the past nine years.

2000 4,924

1999 6,785

1998 5,107

1997 3,910

1996 5,906

1995 4,399

1994 3,109

1993 2,806

1992 2,494

Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 PHOTOS: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS
1)Fardowsa Ahmed, originally from Somalia, became an American on Wednesday
during a naturalization ceremony at Bethel College in St. Paul. The
Minneapolis woman was among some 1,500 people taking the oath of citizenship
in the largest one-day naturalization event in Minnesota history.
2)Some 1,500 people from around the globe were sworn in as U.S. citizens
Wednesday. Laos led the way with 372, followed by Vietnam with 160; Somalia,
114; Ethiopia, 56; India, 52, Mexico, 50; and China, 49. Administering the
oath during one of two ceremonies was U.S. Magistrate Judge John M. Mason.
3)Tinh Le, 80, took in the scene Wednesday before the start of her
naturalization ceremony at Bethel College in St. Paul. Some 1,500 people from
around the world became U.S. citizens during two swearing-in sessions. Tinh
Le, originally from Vietnam, now lives in Minneapolis.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 3, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS BECOMING NEW POLITICAL FORCE IN MINNESOTA

BYLINE: CORALIE CARLSON ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 440 words


Sampson Wilson came to Minnesota to escape the civil war in Liberia, where as a
journalist he had been jailed and tortured for publishing articles against the
government.

But as a new immigrant in 1997, he also found life in Minnesota difficult. His
thick West African accent stood in the way of getting a journalism job and he
had no knowledge of the immigration, criminal and traffic laws he was expected
to obey.

"I didn't know where to get information," Wilson said.

Now he publishes a newspaper, the African Journal, and produces a public access
television show to help the 189,000 African immigrants in the Twin Cities
organize and cope with their new life and culture.

Wilson is one of a growing number of immigrant leaders in the Twin Cities who
are trying to improve the laws and services for fellow immigrants -- and are
organizing a new political force in the process.

Along with about two dozen immigrant community advocates, Wilson met with
Democratic Sen. Paul Wellstone on Monday to discuss changes they want in federal
law -- ranging from more money for education, to a reverse of a new welfare
policy that limits benefits to legal immigrants, to more humane treatment of
refugees entering the country.

Wellstone called the meeting "the new politics of Minnesota" and predicted that
immigrant communities will rise as a political power.

"I just think the face of Minnesota has literally changed," Wellstone said.

He said the community is already becoming more empowered -- as evidenced by two
victories in the Supreme Court last week.

In a 5-4 decision, the Court said immigrants who are convicted of major crimes
cannot be detained indefinitely after they serve their time, which is happening
now to about 3,000 immigrants who cannot be deported. The other 5-4 decision
said legal immigrants convicted of certain crimes are entitled to a court
hearing before they can be deported.

"These Supreme Court decisions were not by accident," Wellstone said.

Like Wilson, Michael Yang, an immigrant from Laos, is working to make sure it's
not.

As director of the Immigrant and Refugee Policy Coalition for the Urban
Coalition, Yang is organizing immigrants in the Twin Cities and teaching them
how to be politically active -- through the state Legislature, the ballot box
and grass-roots organization.

Political influence, Yang said, boils down to votes and money. With the
southeast Asian community alone numbering 100,000 in the Twin Cities and many of
them starting up small businesses, they already have both.

"We are a driving force and our policy makers need to understand that we are
here," Yang said.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Heisenfelt, Associated Press
Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., facing camera, listens during a meeting of the
Immigrant and Refugee Policy Coalition in St. Paul Monday. Wellstone called
the meeting of leads of the Immigrant communities in the Twin Cities the "new
politics of Minnesota" and took advice on changes the leaders would like in
federal law.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 20, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

EINHORN EXTRADITED TO FACE RETRIAL IN U.S.

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 891 words


PARIS -- After two decades on the run, convicted murderer Ira Einhorn was handed
over to U.S. officials Friday and flown to Pennsylvania for a new trial in the
1977 bludgeoning death of his girlfriend. Philadelphia police spokesman Jim
Pauley said U.S. marshals would take Einhorn into custody after his flight from
Paris and transport him to a federal detention center early today. Later, the
fugitive will be moved to a state prison. The extradition ended 20 years of
flight for Einhorn, a counterculture figure who was convicted in absentia in the
death of Holly Maddux. The victim's family applauded his extradition. "When we
see him in handcuffs in the custody of an American citizen, we will be really
happy," said Holly Maddux's sister, Meg Wakeman. A 1998 Pennsylvania law
provided for a retrial.

Foreign nationals to be freed

WASHINGTON -- Attorney General John Ashcroft on Thursday reluctantly ordered the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to begin releasing 3,400 foreign
nationals who have completed sentences for criminal convictions in the United
States but whose home countries won't take them back. The decision comes three
weeks after the Supreme Court ruled that the INS cannot detain the criminals
indefinitely. Ashcroft vowed to take action against countries that refuse to
accept the immigrants or unreasonably delay their return. He said in a speech in
Denver that he may ask Secretary of State Colin Powell to "discontinue granting
visas" to citizens of countries that do not cooperate.

Superbug defeats new antibiotic

LONDON -- In a frustrating development in the battle against drug-resistant
bacteria, scientists report the first entirely new type of antibiotic in 35
years has been beaten by the staph super-germ little more than a year after
being introduced. Researchers at Harvard Medical School describe in the Lancet
medical journal this week how an 85-year-old man on dialysis came down with a
staph infection in the lining of his intestines that was not vulnerable to the
new drug, Zyvox. It is the first report of staph resistance to the drug. "It was
only a matter of time. Whether or not it's going to become prevalent, or whether
this is going to be a rare thing, we can't predict," said Dr. Mary Jane Ferraro,
director of microbiology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

Katharine Hepburn hospitalized

HARTFORD, Conn. -- Four-time Academy Award winner Katharine Hepburn was
undergoing tests at a hospital Thursday and was expected to go home in a few
days. The nature of the 94-year-old actress' illness was not disclosed. Past
health problems include arthritis, pneumonia and Parkinson's-like tremors.
Hepburn was admitted around 6 p.m. Wednesday. "She's awake and alert," said
Hartford Hospital spokesman James Battaglio. "Her physician is currently running
some tests and if all goes well, she could be discharged over the next few
days." During her 60-year career, she was nominated for 12 Academy Awards and
won for "Morning Glory," 1933; "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," 1967; "A Lion in
Winter," 1968; and "On Golden Pond," 1981.

New airlock doesn't seal tightly

SPACE STATION ALPHA -- Astronauts struggled with more air leaks aboard the space
station Thursday, this time inside the newly attached portal for spacewalkers.
NASA said the latest leaks were small and would not interfere with tonight's
spacewalk through the new airlock. A shrill noise coming from the lock's
depressurization pump also will not hamper any of the activity, officials said.
Space station astronaut Susan Helms complained of the noise Thursday night. "The
decibel measurement right now is 100," Helms reported. Mission Control said they
copied that. "What?" she shouted, then added: "Just kidding." Station astronaut
Jim Voss used a leak-detecting tool to confirm that air was seeping from three
spots in one compartment of the airlock into the other. Among the repair
options: closing the airlock valves, tightening fittings and replacing seals.

Boxcars glow in burning tunnel

BALTIMORE -- A fire raging for a second day Thursday in a train tunnel under
Baltimore cast smoke over downtown offices, shut down Camden Yards and burned
fiber-optic cables, slowing Internet traffic across the country. Several city
blocks were closed above the tunnel where a train carrying hazardous materials
derailed Wednesday afternoon. Extreme heat kept firefighters from vacuuming up
spilled hydrochloric acid, and just five of the train's 60 cars had been removed
from the tunnel by Thursday afternoon. "We're told some of the boxcars are
actually glowing," fire department spokesman Hector Torres said. "You're talking
about glowing metal. I'm guessing 1,000 or 1,500 degrees."

Nepal's prime minister steps down

KATMANDU, Nepal -- The prime minister of Nepal stepped down Thursday, blamed for
a bungled operation against Maoist insurgents, tangled up in a bribery scandal
and accused of not adequately protecting this Himalayan kingdom's massacred
royal family. Girija Prasad Koirala turned in his resignation to King Gyanendra,
the constitutional monarch, at the Narayanhiti Palace. That's where the previous
King Birendra, Queen Aiswarya and other members of the royal family were shot to
death by Crown Prince Dipendra last month. The prince then turned the gun on
himself, according to witnesses.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Katherine Hepburn in 1981

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       August 6, 2001 Monday CITY EDITION

WE STILL LIKE IT HERE;
MINNESOTANS DON'T STRAY FAR FROM HOME, SURVEY SAYS

BYLINE: MARISA AGHA Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 527 words


Minnesotans and Wisconsinites tend to stay put, but both states are attracting
more immigrants, transplants and returning natives than they did a decade ago,
according to a new survey by the U.S. Census Bureau.

The survey estimates that 70 percent of Minnesotans are natives. That's slightly
fewer than in 1990, when estimates showed that more than 73 percent of residents
were born here. Similarly, the estimates showed that nearly 72 percent of
Wisconsin residents were born in the state, compared with more than 76 percent a
decade ago.

All the estimates are based on a survey, conducted last year apart from the 2000
census, of 700,000 people nationwide. The numbers are not exact and could change
markedly when more accurate final census results become available.

A growing percentage of Minnesotans and Wisconsinites hail from other nations.
In Minnesota, estimates show the percentage of foreign-born residents more than
doubling, from 2.6 percent in 1990 to 5.4 percent in 2000. The majority of
Minnesota's immigrants come from Asia (about 39 percent), with significant
numbers also arriving from Latin America, Europe and Africa. In Wisconsin, where
the foreign-born population rose from 2.5 percent in 1990 to 4.1 percent in
2000, Asians and Latin-Americans also accounted for the majority of immigrants.

In the case of transplants, the survey also found that nearly 17 percent of both
Minnesota and Wisconsin residents were born in other Midwestern states.
Minnesota, however, attracts slightly more Westerners than does Wisconsin, while
native Southerners are a smidge more drawn to the Badger State. Neither state
attracts many people from the Northeast.

The numbers indicate the evolving face of Minnesota, which includes more
arrivals like Lin Baynton, a Canada native who recently moved to Minnesota via
Albuquerque, N.M. Baynton, 60, moved to White Bear Township to be closer to her
two granddaughters, Maddy, 6, and Sophia, 3, in Dellwood.

"Those little girls would come and visit and they're just so darn cute," said
Baynton, whose husband, Bob, is a retired marketing executive and also a
Canadian native. "That is why we're here. We wanted to be part of their growing
up."

Soon after moving here, Baynton joined the North Suburban New Neighbors Club,
where she quickly became newsletter editor and membership chair.

While the club has seen the number of out-of-state transplants drop in recent
years, more Minnesotans are returning home to retire, said Margaret Foderberg,
the club's president.

"I think it's the climate," said Foderberg, who moved to Shoreview from
Chariton, Iowa, in 1993. "It's just a prettier winter here."

Though the state's population is changing, Baynton does not see the diversity or
number of transplants that she saw in New Mexico. Minnesotans generally don't
stray too far, she's noticed.

"When you live in New Mexico, practically the first question is 'Where are you
from?' " Baynton laughed. "I don't ask that question here anymore because I know
what the answer is gonna be."

Marisa Agha can be reached at magha@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2109.

Related stories on Pages 1A, 4A and 5A.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Census Bureau's annual survey

GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig Borck, Pioneer Press
Canadian-born Lin Baynton, center, babysits her granddaughters Sophia, 3,
left, and Maddy, 6, in her White Bear Township home. Baynton and her husband
retired to New Mexico, but then recently changed their minds and moved to
Minnesota to live near their grandchildren.
Graphic: Pioneer Press
Where we're from
A 2000 Census Bureau survey offers a fresh look at the foreign-born population
in Minnesota and Wisconsin. Most come to the United States from Asia or Latin
America, but Minnesota's large Somali population gives it a significant number
fro Africa, as well.
(see microfilm for complete details)

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 31, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

REFUGEES CAUGHT IN TUNNEL ATTEMPT

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 590 words


PARIS -- About 40 illegal immigrants were taken in for questioning Thursday
after breaking into the Channel Tunnel and trying to cross from France to
England on foot. Train traffic in the tunnel was shut down for three hours after
midnight after the immigrants tripped an alarm. Eurotunnel, the British-French
company that runs the tunnel, has spent more than $4 million to boost security
to prevent people from trying to use the tunnel. The company also has gone to
court to ask authorities to shut down a Red Cross refugee center in Sangatte,
near the French tunnel entrance, which serves as a jumping-off point for many
people trying to get across the channel.

Aaliyah's aircraft appears overloaded

NASSAU, Bahamas -- When the Cessna 402B carrying singer Aaliyah crashed shortly
after takeoff on Saturday, the estimated weight of the plane, luggage and fuel
was about 5,495 pounds, not including the nine adult occupants, the Civil
Aviation Department said Thursday. "No question about it, they were overloaded,"
said John Frank of the Cessna Pilots Association, a group based in Santa Maria,
Calif., that is not affiliated with the plane's manufacturer. The maximum
authorized takeoff weight for the Cessna 402B is 6,300 pounds. Both of the
Cessna's engines appear to have been working at the time of the crash,
investigators said.

Embassies closed in Bulgaria, Romania

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. embassies in Bulgaria and Romania were closed
indefinitely Thursday after threats against them. State Department spokesman
Richard Boucher said the embassies wanted to review their security arrangements
along with "information about possible threats." In Bucharest, television
station Antenna 1 reported that Romanian intelligence services sent dozens of
security troops to the embassy area.

Voter turnout 93% in East Timor

DILI, East Timor -- International monitors hailed East Timor's Assembly voting
as a success Thursday and officials estimated the turnout at 93 percent. The
vote moved East Timor nearer full nationhood after three centuries of Portuguese
rule, 24 years of Indonesian occupation, and two years of U.N. administration.

Film director arrested in Iran

TEHRAN, Iran -- A prominent Iranian film director, known for her liberal and
feminist views, has been arrested, a colleague said Thursday. Tahmineh Milani
was arrested Sunday on the order of the Tehran Revolutionary Court. There has
been no official announcement on the charges, but it is widely said that her
arrest was related to her latest film, "The Hidden Half," and her interviews
with newspapers in recent weeks, said director Bahram Beizaei.

Basra radar site hit in U.S. jet raid

WASHINGTON -- U.S. fighter jets attacked an Iraqi radar site at Basra airport
Thursday, officials said. It was the third bombing of military targets in
southern Iraq in the past week. Officials said the Basra airport radar was not
active at the time of the attack, but had been used in the past to coordinate
targeting of allied aircraft. The airport serves both civilian and military
aircraft.

Snoop Dogg, Ja Rule face profanity charges

KINGSTON, Jamaica -- Rappers Snoop Dogg and Ja Rule were charged Thursday with
using indecent language during performances in the recent Sumfest music festival
in Montego Bay. They will be asked to appear in a magistrate's court on Sept. 27
to face the profanity charges. The summons will be served to their agents in
Jamaica. Grammy-winning reggae performer Beenie Man was charged earlier with
using profanity at Sumfest.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 1, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION STILL AT ISSUE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 658 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush said Friday that the problem of 3 million Mexicans
living illegally in the United States proved too complex to reach agreement in
time for next week's state visit by Mexican President Vicente Fox. Instead of
the detailed immigration proposals that Bush had hoped to announce when he and
Fox meet at the White House on Wednesday, the two presidents will outline only
broad principles for change. "Immigration is one that is a complex issue," Bush
said Friday, previewing the first state visit of his presidency. "We made
progress on principles. President Fox knows that the issue will require more
than just the administration's involvement; it requires a willing Congress to
address the issue."

Aide sentenced for mailing debate tape

AUSTIN, Texas -- A former aide to George W. Bush's campaign media adviser was
sentenced Friday to a year in prison and fined $3,000 for mailing a Bush debate
practice videotape to Al Gore's campaign. Juanita Yvette Lozano, 31, who pleaded
guilty in June, said she was sorry her actions had so drastically changed her
life but did not apologize for committing mail fraud. Lozano will lose her
voting privileges during her prison sentence and three years of probation.
"Every election will be a painful reminder as I will be only an observer in the
process," she told the court. U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks scolded Lozano for
trying to disrupt the presidential election and lying to a grand jury. "There's
no doubt in my mind you knew exactly what you were doing," he said. A lifelong
Democrat, Lozano admitted during her plea hearing that in September 2000 she
mailed the Bush videotape, strategy book and other papers to Gore adviser and
former Rep. Tom Downey, D-N.Y., before the first presidential faceoff with Bush.

Copter fighting fire crashes, killing 3

WEST GLACIER, Mont. -- A helicopter assigned to the largest wildfire in Montana
crashed in a brushy ravine north of Yellowstone National Park on Friday, killing
all three people aboard. The chopper assigned to the 25,500-acre fire went down
during a maintenance flight to check its condition, Columbia Helicopters
spokesman Jon Lazzaretti said from company headquarters in suburban Portland,
Ore. Later Friday, a fire in northwestern Montana swept into Glacier National
Park, increasing from 17,100 acres to 25,000 acres. "It's kicking butt," fire
spokesman Bob McKinney said. This crash follows Monday's collision of two
firefighting planes in California that killed two pilots.

Corps alters plan for Missouri River

WASHINGTON -- The Army Corps of Engineers on Friday backed away from a plan to
alter the flow of the Missouri River, prompting criticism from environmentalists
who said the agency is sacrificing conservation for business interests. The Fish
and Wildlife Service, which oversees the federal Endangered Species Act, says
changing the flow is the only way to save the pallid sturgeon, least tern and
piping plover. But barge and agriculture interests have said the move will harm
them and have lobbied lawmakers and the White House.

Military recruiting should meet goals

WASHINGTON -- Each of the military services is likely to meet its recruiting
goal for the budget year ending Sept. 30, but attracting qualified people is
still difficult, a senior Pentagon official said Friday. "They're going to make
their numbers this year, I think, ... but that's not the time to relax," Charles
Abell, the assistant secretary of defense for force management policy, said at
the Pentagon. It would be the second straight year that the Army, Navy, Air
Force and Marines all met their recruiting goals. In the late 1990s, the
services -- except for the Marines -- struggled to attract recruits, in part
because the booming economy offered more favorable opportunities for young
people. The Air Force began its first paid television advertising campaign in
2000 after falling below its 1999 goal. s

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Juanita Lozano

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 5, 2001 Wednesday CITY EDITION

NATIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 695 words


Border talks please Powell

WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Colin Powell praised what he called the
"enormous progress" between the United States and Mexico on immigration issues
and said talks are ready to move to specifics. Powell, accompanied by Mexican
Foreign Secretary Jorge Castaneda, spoke Tuesday after officials met for five
hours at the State Department. "We've got to do it right, not fast," Powell
said, stressing the issue's complexity. Mexican President Vicente Fox previously
has said that he expects it will take four to six years to reach an agreement.

Bank hostages safe as gunman gives up

LOWELL, Ind. -- A man armed with a sawed-off shotgun entered a bank and took
nine people hostage Tuesday morning, then surrendered about four hours later. No
one was hurt, police said. At one point, David Potchen, 39, of Lowell, Ind.,
asked for two Big Macs and a pack of cigarettes, which were exchanged for two
hostages. Sheriff Mike Arredondo said it wasn't clear that Potchen wanted to rob
the bank. He reportedly told bank employees to set the alarm off and alert the
media. FBI agent Bob Reilley said the motive remains unclear. "We believe that
he had some sort of major personal or financial problem," he said.

Older drivers have lowest crash rate

New studies show that older drivers are a greater threat to themselves than to
fellow travelers and that their higher death rate is because they are
susceptible to injury, not because they have more accidents. A study by the
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety indicated that older drivers kill fewer
motorists and pedestrians than any other age group and have the lowest crash
rates per licensed driver. However, when older drivers, especially those over
75, are involved in a crash, they are more likely to die, researchers concluded.
People over 65 make up 17 percent of the population and 14 percent of drivers.
Older drivers were involved in 8 percent of police-reported accidents and made
up 13 percent of drivers in fatal crashes. Drivers aged 16 to 24 had the highest
accident rate.

Medical groups say kids' pain ignored

CHICAGO -- Children feel pain just as much as adults do, and doctors are
needlessly letting them suffer, two medical groups contend. A statement by the
American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Pain Society says that doctors
should do more to relieve pain during treatment. Reluctance to treat pain may
spring, in part, from a misconception that youngsters don't feel pain as adults
do.

Med schools get fewer applications

CHICAGO -- Applications to the nation's medical schools fell 3.7 percent in 2000
in the fourth straight year of decline. Jobs in other fields and the fear of big
medical school debts may be among reasons for the decline, said Barbara
Barzansky, author of the report. The applicant pool totaled 37,092. It included
17,274 women, a 0.9 percent drop from 1999. The report appeared in the Journal
of the American Medical Association.

Charges filed in baby's death

NEW YORK -- A former police officer, Joseph Gray has been charged with
second-degree manslaughter in the death of a baby delivered after his mother,
brother and aunt were struck and killed crossing a street. Gray, 41, pleaded
innocent to charges of manslaughter and other drunken-driving related offenses
in the Aug. 4 deaths of the baby's mother, her 4-year-old son and her
16-year-old sister. The baby was delivered by Caesarean section and had a
heartbeat for 12 hours.

Bush clarifies China policies

WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration issued a statement Tuesday on the buildup
of Chinese nuclear forces, declaring it did not plan to drop objections to the
upgrade of China's nuclear force in exchange for an end to Chinese opposition to
President Bush's missile defense plan. Senior administration officials
reportedly had told New York Times reporters that they would not object to
China's modernization, because China will add missiles no matter what the United
States does. Members of Congress expressed concern that China would interpret
this as a go-ahead to build more nuclear weapons. The administration said it
only was recognizing strategic reality.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
DELAY GRANTED
Multiple slaying suspect Nikolay Soltys, right, and public defender Tommy
Clinkenbeard, listen as seven murder charges are read. The arraignment Tuesday
in Sacramento Superior Court ended with a new hearing set for Oct. 2 to give
Soltys more time to meet with his attorney.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 13, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

SEARCHES CAUSE DELAYS AT CANADIAN BORDER;
TRUCKS BACKED UP 12 HOURS AT ONE POINT

BYLINE: PHIL COUVRETTE Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 318 words


LACOLLE, Quebec -- Long lines and stringent searches slowed traffic along the
U.S.-Canadian border Wednesday, but vehicles were being allowed to cross in both
directions a day after the worst terrorist attack in U.S. history.

Officials warned the world's longest undefended border would be more tightly
patrolled, and travelers should expect to wait for hours. At some crossings,
lines of vehicles stretched for miles. At others, traffic moved with minimal
delays.

U.S. officials said Wednesday they were investigating whether one group of
hijackers crossed the Canadian border at a checkpoint and made their way to
Boston, where an American Airlines flight and a United Airlines plane were
hijacked and flown into the World Trade Center.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien said Canadian security forces had no information
about that.

The allegation raised concerns that liberal immigration and refugee policies in
Canada enable terrorist groups to organize north of the border and infiltrate
the United States.

U.S. Ambassador Paul Cellucci said the United States and Canada must work
together to coordinate immigration policies and improve intelligence and
security networks.

"We want to stop them before they get to the border and that requires resources
for intelligence and law enforcement," he said.

Osama bin Laden, the Afghanistan-based Islamic militant, is considered the most
likely figure behind a string of attacks against U.S. targets. Two former
Montreal residents with alleged links to the Saudi exile have been convicted on
U.S. terrorism charges.

Hundreds of thousands of people cross the U.S.-Canada border daily, reflecting
the close ties between North American allies who share the world's largest trade
relationships -- worth more than $1 billion a day.

Trucks were waiting 12 hours at the Niagara Falls border point, and the line was
15 miles long in Sarnia, Ontario.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Aftermath: The hunt

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 14, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

SUSPECT IS LINKED TO ST. PAUL;
STATE ISSUED ID CARD LAST YEAR

BYLINE: RICK LINSK, TOM MAJESKI AND DOUG PETERS, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1335 words


One of the men suspected of hijacking American Airlines Flight 11 -- the first
jet to slam into the World Trade Center -- listed a St. Paul address on a
Minnesota identification card issued in February 2000 and may have lived for a
time in a Bloomington motel.

Abdulrahman Saeed Alomari, 38, listed an address in the 1700 block of Berkeley
Avenue, a quiet Macalester-Groveland street. Homeowner Mary Rottach said Alomari
never lived there, but may have been the older brother of a tenant, Ali Saeed
Alamri, who was studying English in St. Paul.

It was one of two Minnesota connections that surfaced Thursday in the burgeoning
FBI investigation of the terrorist attacks. FBI agents also tried to interview
an inmate detained by immigration officials in the Sherburne County Jail, but
the man refused to answer questions. Authorities would not identify the man, but
the Pioneer Press has learned that one inmate held on immigration charge,
Zacarias Moussaoui, tried last month to purchase training sessions on a
commercial airline flight simulator owned by Northwest Airlines in Eagan and run
by a Florida flight school being investigated by the FBI.

In St. Paul, FBI agents contacted Rottach Thursday evening about Alamri and his
brother and scheduled an interview for today.

"We have a significant, ongoing investigation here, but we just can't discuss
it," said Tim Counts, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office in Minnesota.

Sherry Sandey, president of International Homestay Services, the referral agency
that placed Ali Alamri in the St. Paul home, said she believes Alomari was the
student's older brother, despite the slight differences in their names in the
state records.

Officials in Portland, Me., said an airport videotape shows two men passing
through security gates at 5:53 a.m. on the day of the attack, headed for the
Boston flight.

They identified the men as Mohammed Atta and Alomari. Both men made the
connection to American Airlines Flight 11, according to the New York Times.
Federal officials said Atta lived in Germany and trained as a pilot in Florida.

Public records databases indicate that an Ali Saeed Alamri and an Abdulrahman
Saeed Alomari both lived at the home in Vero Beach, Fla., that FBI agents
searched for 12 hours on Wednesday.

The property's owner told news reporters that in July 2000, he rented the house
to a man who said he was a commercial pilot from Saudi Arabia in Vero Beach for
flight training. The man, whom the landlord would not name, said that he needed
a home for 12 to 15 months, and that had a wife and four school-aged children.
He moved out Sept. 3, the landlord said.

FAA records list a pilot license for an Abdulrahman Saeed Alomari, with an
address in Jedda, Saudi Arabia.

Rottach and Sandey said they were shocked by the developments. Rottach said the
slightly built Alamri was religious, praying five times daily on a traditional
Muslim prayer rug, and that he was "fastidious" in his dress. He sought a career
in banking, she said.

Under the arrangement with the placement service, homeowners wash the students'
laundry and prepare breakfast and dinner for them. Alamri had a private side
entrance to his second-floor room, plus his own telephone line, and had most of
his meals apparently alone in the room, she said. He leased a white car, she
said.

"He was a little man who wasn't here often," Rottach said. "I didn't see him
much." Alamri moved to Minnesota to study English in the ELS Language Center at
the University of St. Thomas. The center, which leases space from St. Thomas, is
a Princeton, N.J.-based organization that provides intensive English language
programs -- six hours a day -- for foreign students seeking admission to U.S.
colleges.

Alamri left under circumstances that were surprising to the homeowner. Around
Nov. 6 or 7, while she was out of town, he moved out, leaving her a $50 check
for extra rental costs, no note goodbye, and no forwarding address. The check,
drawn on an account at Wells Fargo Bank, bounced.

"He was such a nice kid, it's hard to believe there would be any possible
connection," Sandey said.

Flight Training Sought The FBI's interest in the man being detained by the INS
in the Sherburne County Jail followed a tip from an inmate there, officials
said.

They would not reveal the identity of the man they sought to interview there,
saying only that he refused to talk to investigators and asked for a lawyer.
U.S. officials said the FBI had no reason to charge the man and instead began
deportation proceedings.

Records from the jail, the Federal Aviation Administration and an Oklahoma
flight school indicate that Moussaoui, 33, who took flying lessons in Norman,
Okla., earlier this year was booked into the jail on the evening of Aug. 17 and
has been in INS custody at the jail since then.

Moussaoui attempted to pay cash for training time on a Northwest Airlines jet
simulator in Eagan last month, the Pioneer Press has learned. He was quickly
taken into custody by federal officials on an immigration violation.

Booking records at the jail give no address for Moussaoui. There is no
information linking Moussaoui to Tuesday's hijackers.

Moussaoui began his flight training on Feb. 26, when he enrolled at Airman
Flight School in Norman, according to school officials.

"He signed up to get a private pilot's license and said that if he liked us, he
would remain to get his instrument and commercial ratings," said Brenda Keene,
the school's admissions director.

But his plans apparently changed.

"He wasn't here very long," Keene said. "He didn't even get his (private
pilot's) license."

Keene said Moussaoui logged 56.9 hours of flight time before he left abruptly
May 29. Normally, student pilots with that much training are preparing to test
for their private pilots' license.

Moussaoui, however, had never flown solo on any type of airplane and left the
school without receiving any type of certification. "Obviously, he wasn't a good
pilot," she added.

Records at the school do not show Moussaoui's nationality or where he lived
before coming to the school, but Keene said he has a very thick French accent.

In August, Moussaoui apparently went to Pan Am International Flight Academy
school in Florida to request training time on a jet simulator. He was referred
to the Northwest Aerospace Training Corporation flight simulator facility in
Eagan. Pan Am sells unused training time on the Northwest simulators.

Two and a half months after leaving the Oklahoma flight school, Moussaoui
appeared in Minnesota. When he attempted to receive jetliner training with only
a student pilot license and offered thousands of dollars in cash to pay for it,
officials at the Eagan site became suspicious and notified authorities.

Miami-based Pan Am is one of several Florida flight schools whose records are
being examined by federal investigators. The records at the school's Eagan
affiliate also are under scrutiny. Todd Huvard, a spokesman for Pan Am,
confirmed that the FBI is investigating the possible link between the terrorists
and students his company trained. But on advice of the FBI, Huvard declined to
provide any details.

Officials at Northwest would not comment on the investigation and instead
referred reporters to Pan Am or the FBI.

Brian Addis, owner of a St. Paul flight school who once worked at Northwest's
simulator training facility, said it's not unusual for officials there to
contact the FBI when a foreign national with an unusual flight profile requests
training on one of the simulators.

Addis, who owns Wings, Inc., said agents also came to his school Thursday to
request records. He said other agents were doing the same thing at flight
schools around Minnesota and across the nation.

Rick Linsk can be reached at rlinsk@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5371. Staff
writers Paul Tosto and Janet Roberts, researcher Christine Wareham, the
Associated Press and the New York Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   September 19, 2001 Wednesday CITY EDITION

FBI ARRESTS 3 DETROIT MEN IN TERROR INVESTIGATION;
AGENTS SAY SUSPECTS HAD AIRPORT DIAGRAMS, FALSE IMMIGRATION PAPERS IN THEIR HOME

BYLINE: KAREN GULLO, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1247 words


WASHINGTON -- Attorney General John Ashcroft expanded the terrorism
investigation Tuesday to include U.S. attorneys in every city as authorities
filed the first criminal charges after finding three men in a house with false
immigrations papers and airport diagrams.

Ashcroft also said publicly for the first time that authorities are probing
whether more flights beyond the four that crashed Sept. 11 were targeted for
hijackings, but noted the possibility had not yet been corroborated.

The arrests in Michigan occurred when FBI agents raided a residence in Detroit
looking for one of the nearly 200 witnesses being sought in the investigation.
Instead, they found the three men and a cache of documents. The three were
charged with having false immigration papers.

Aided by a federal grand jury in New York, the investigation has detained 75
people in connection with the investigation on suspected immigration violations
and had at least six people under arrest as material witnesses, law enforcement
officials said.

In addition, the FBI has assembled a list of more than 190 people it wants to
question.

The government also announced a new policy that gives immigration authorities 48
hours, or longer in emergencies, to decide whether to charge an alien with
status violations, up from 24 hours. Many of those questioned in Tuesday's
attack were being detained on immigration violations.

And the Justice Department has drafted legislation allowing the U.S. attorney
general to lock up immigrants deemed to be terrorist suspects and order them
deported without presenting any evidence.

The only chance for an appeal would occur when a suspect was facing removal from
the country, according to the draft, which has prompted alarm among immigration
advocates and civil libertarians.

Ashcroft vowed to use "every legal means at our disposal to prevent further
terrorist activity by taking people into custody who have violated the law and
who may pose a threat to America."

The restructuring of the investigation includes the creation of anti-terrorism
task forces by every U.S. attorney office in the country.

"These task forces will be a part of a national network that will coordinate the
dissemination of information and the development of a strategy to disrupt,
dismantle and punish terrorist organizations throughout the country," he said.

The effort was being aided by a grand jury in White Plains, N.Y., and officials
said other grand juries would likely be used around the country to issue
subpoenas and gather evidence.

The three Detroit men were arrested on charges of identity fraud and misuse of
visas.

During a search of the men's residence, FBI agents observed a day planner
containing notations on the "American base in Turkey," the "American foreign
minister" and "Alia Airport" in Jordan, according to an FBI affidavit filed in
the case.

"The day planner also contained handwritten sketches of what appeared to be a
diagram of an airport flight line, to include aircraft and runways," the
affidavit said.

Court records said the FBI seized documents suggesting the men worked in food
preparation for airlines at Detroit Metropolitan Airport. The affidavit did not
explain the reference to "U.S. foreign minister."

Federal documents identified the men as Karim Koubriti, 23; Ahmed Hannan, 33;
and Farouk Ali-Haimoud, 21.

Among the material witnesses under arrest was Albader Alhazmi, 34, a Saudi
national and Saudi-trained doctor who was doing a medical residency in radiology
at the University of Texas Health Science Center, a law enforcement official
said. He was being held in New York.

Alhazmi did not show up for his radiologist job Sept. 11. He had been working at
a military hospital at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio during the week
before the attacks, said an official at the medical center.

Meanwhile, evidence emerged Tuesday that the FBI had tracked the activities of
one Arab man who was seeking jetliner training from Minnesota to Oklahoma in the
weeks before Tuesday's attacks.

The FBI came by the Airman Flight School in Norman, Okla., about two weeks
before the terrorist attacks, inquiring about Zacarias Moussaoui, who is now in
custody in New York in the investigation.

The FBI had a picture of Moussaoui and asked if people at the school could
identify him and they also asked about his mannerisms and what he did at the
school, said admissions director Brenda Keene.

Moussaoui, 33, was detained Aug. 17 in Minnesota's Sherburne County on
immigration issues after he aroused suspicions by seeking to buy time on a
flight simulator for jetliners at a flight school in Eagan, law enforcement
officials said. Oklahoma school officials described Moussaoui as an impatient
student who was not good at flying. But they said nothing about him led them to
think he was connected to terrorists.

Of the list of people wanted for questioning, investigators were particularly
interested in five men who have all booked tickets on a flight this Saturday
from San Antonio to Denver and then from Denver to San Diego, the Miami Herald
reported. The paper said investigators are concerned the men may be part of a
plan for additional hijackings.

Ashcroft said the FBI also is checking on the possibility that suicide hijackers
were on board a fifth transcontinental airline flight Sept. 11, one that was
canceled just minutes before its scheduled 8:10 a.m. departure from Boston due
to a mechanical problem.

Federal agents are searching for an undetermined number of passengers who were
on board American Airlines Flight 43, according to one source familiar with the
passenger manifest. The flight was to have departed Boston 25 minutes after
American Flight 11, which struck the north tower at New York's World Trade
Center, this source said.

Immigration advocates said they were troubled by the number of detentions,
combined with the proposed legislation being drafted by Ashcroft. According to
the draft, provided by immigration advocates, the director of the INS could
recommend to the attorney general that an immigrant be "certified" as someone
who might facilitate acts of terrorism. The person could then be detained
indefinitely and deported.

The measure would apply both to visitors and to permanent legal residents
holding so-called green cards.

Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said the proposed deportation rules were more severe than
legislation passed in 1996 allowing expanded use of "secret evidence" that does
not have to be shown to the suspect. The proposed legislation would not require
any evidence to be submitted to a court.

"This proposed legislation is basically making a doormat of the Constitution,"
said Mike Maggio, an immigration lawyer. "It would permit the INS to serve as
prosecutor, judge and jury with no judicial review."

Although there appears to be broad support on Capitol Hill for Ashcroft's
overall package of anti-terrorism proposals, congressional aides cautioned that
constitutional concerns would play a role in the debate. "The last thing we want
to do is rashly pass something that could be tossed out by the courts," said
David Carle, spokesman for Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.

Justice Department spokesman Dan Nelson declined to discuss the proposed
legislation, which could be sent to Congress as early as today.

This report includes information from the Knight Ridder Washington Bureau and
Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Attack and Beyond

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 20, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

IOC WANTS ALL ATHLETES WELCOMED BY U.S.;
WOMEN'S WRESTLING WINS APPROVAL

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 693 words


SALT LAKE CITY -- With increased security plans already in place for the Winter
Games, Olympic officials wanted assurances Wednesday that foreign athletes won't
have a difficult time clearing U.S. immigration checkpoints in February.

The International Olympic Committee's executive board was concerned that
athletes might find entry procedures less accommodating after last week's
terrorist attacks, according to Mitt Romney, president of the Salt Lake
Organizing Committee.

"We predicted there would be changes, particularly for certain countries," said
Romney, who delivered a report by video link to an IOC meeting in Lausanne,
Switzerland. "Given what's happened, it's very possible that the processing time
or procedures for certain countries might be impacted."

IOC director general Francois Carrard said the organization expects the United
States to admit all accredited athletes, journalists and other personnel. The
IOC issues Olympic identity cards, which are accepted in place of visas.

"We understand that after such a tragedy the authorities of the United States
review all the security plans, including access," Carrard said. "We have
recalled that the universality of the Games should be respected . . . and that
those athletes who are bona fide athletes, who are qualified, should be granted
access."

Romney briefed the IOC on security changes for the Feb. 8-24 Games that likely
will include more fences at venues and tighter security at athletes' housing and
the IOC's headquarters hotel.

Salt Lake safety commanders are fully reviewing plans after the Sept. 11 attacks
in New York and Washington.

In Lausanne, the IOC expressed confidence in Salt Lake's "very robust" security
plans and said no major changes or substantial amounts of money are needed. The
group also gave its approval to add women's wrestling for the 2004 Olympics in
Athens.

Romney said he did not want to spend time contemplating the scenario of an
airliner loaded with fuel crashing into a stadium during Olympic ceremonies.
That scenario, IOC officials revealed Tuesday, has long been a part of Olympic
safety planning.

The IOC has ordered a report on whether it could be held financially or legally
liable for any terrorism during the Olympics. It appears liability would fall on
Olympic cities and organizing committees, which take full responsibility for
staging the Games, Romney said.

The Salt Lake Organizing Committee is "on the hook for any terrorism act that we
have not prepared for," Romney said, but "we're not spending our time worrying
about it."

Utah safety commanders plan to establish a no-fly zone over the Olympic venues,
and Romney said the U.S. military had the capability to "intercept" any errant
flights.

Romney was reluctant to contemplate the possibility that the Games might have to
be called off if the United States and allies find themselves in a sustained war
against terrorism or rogue states.

"It's our job to plan for the Games," Romney said. "I don't even want to think
about the unthinkable."

Although the IOC approved adding women's wrestling for the 2004 Athens Games,
the move is not a certainty because the addition is tied to a cut in men's
wrestling events.

The action reflected a drive by new IOC President Jacques Rogge to control the
size of the Olympics. Under the previous president, Juan Antonio Samaranch, the
number of sports and athletes grew steadily without any significant cuts.

"This is the first time we don't increase the number of events on the program,"
IOC sports director Gilbert Felli said.

In the continuing effort to increase female participation in the Olympics, the
IOC gave its approval to the addition of four women's events in wrestling. But,
in return, two men's wrestling events would have to be cut.

Felli said the international wrestling federation may not agree to the
reduction.

Of the 28 sports on the Olympic program, boxing and baseball would be the only
ones left without women's events. However, women's softball has been played
since 1996.

The most significant cut proposed was in boxing, with the elimination of one
weight division, a total of 26 boxers.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      October 1, 2001 Monday CITY EDITION

REVISIT THE IMMIGRANT EXPERIENCE;
TEACHER;
SCHOLASTIC.COM;
IMMIGRAT

BYLINE: ROB HUBBARD, Pioneer Press

SECTION: YOURTECH; Pg. F5

LENGTH: 490 words


The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have inspired a wide variety of reactions. One of
the most common is patriotism, a sense of being part of a national whole.

The United States, however, means different things to different people. Maybe
this is a good time to get back to basics on Scholastic.com's "Immigration:
Stories of Yesterday and Today."

With the exception of native Americans, everyone in the United States is either
an immigrant or the descendant of immigrants. And this site -- created by
children's book publisher Scholastic and the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation -- give you a strong sense of our diverse national identity.

Although the emphasis is on immigration experiences of the past, the present is
well represented.

If you want to get a sense of what it was like to come to America during our
largest wave of immigration, roughly from 1880 to 1930, we'd suggest that you
start where most of the immigrants of that era did at Ellis Island.

Located in New York Harbor, it was where new arrivals had their first
bittersweet taste of the new land, underwent physicals and had their paperwork
processed. You can take a virtual tour of the Ellis Island complex through
video, audio or photos, and even use 3D applications to move about the place.

If you don't mind wading through numbers, you'll find the charts and graphs
informative. Click to "Who Lives in America?" and you'll find out just how many
immigrants have relocated to the United States since the 1850s, with breakdowns
by decade and country of origin.

All of that, while informative, doesn't really give you a sense of what it's
like to be an immigrant. For that, this site offers other options. One is to
follow the story of a young Polish boy who joined his family in America in the
1920s and went on to a successful career in theater.

You may be equally intrigued by stories of young immigrants who moved here
within the last decade. Each tells a sad tale of leaving family and friends
behind in order to seek safety and opportunities in the United States.

Get to know immigrants and document their experiences in the "Oral History
Scrapbook." In time, this section may grow into something very powerful, giving
you a newfound fascination for what it is to be an American.

Cyber Kids Sleuth of the Week: Congratulations to Anna Schmidt, 11, of St. Paul,
who searched the American Museum of Natural History's "Infection, Detection,
Protection" site and found that "vaccine" comes from a Latin term meaning "from
a cow." For her searching skills, she'll receive the "Nancy Drew: Treasure in
the Royal Tower" CD-ROM.

This week's question: What nickname did Ellis Island employees give to their
building's exit area? Find the answer on this site, then e-mail it, along with
your name, age and city, to cyberkids@pioneerpress.com. You may just win a nice
prize.

Rob Hubbard can be reached at rhubbard @pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5247.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      October 12, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

INS UNSURE HOW 6 OF THE HIJACKERS ENTERED COUNTRY

BYLINE: PETE YOST, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 726 words


WASHINGTON -- Thirteen of the hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks entered the
United States legally, but no entry records exist for the other six, raising
doubts about who they are as well as how they got in, the nation's immigration
chief said Thursday.

"Six of the individuals, we can find no record of them, period. That's not just
INS, that's everywhere," James Ziglar, head of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said as his agency released records.

Three of the four suspected hijacker pilots were in the country legally Sept.
11, including Mohamed Atta, suspected of being the coordinator of the four
terrorist crews who hijacked the flights.

The fourth pilot, Hani Hanjour, had been in the United States legally at various
times for the past decade, but immigration officials said they were unable to
determine that was the case on the day of the attacks.

Three of the hijackers who entered the country legally overstayed their visas:
Nawaf Alhazmi, Waleed M. Alshehri and Ahmed Alghamdi.

Ziglar's testimony underscored the government's doubts over the identities of
some of the hijackers.

"I suspect one of the reasons the FBI issued the pictures and the names a week
or so ago was to find out if anybody out there knew whether this person was the
person who has the name," Ziglar said.

"It's a problem not knowing who these people were and being able to match these
names with faces," Ziglar told a House Judiciary subcommittee. The chairman,
Rep. George Gekas, R-Pa., had requested data about the 19 hijackers.

FBI Director Robert Mueller said Sept. 27 that the bureau has been working to
find the hijackers' true identities. He said some of the names attached to the
photos of the 19 released by the FBI may not be correct.

"Our investigation has reached out to a number of countries"to try to determine
the identities, Mueller said.

INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said that regarding some of the hijackers,
"you've got the possibility of stolen identity, multiple identities or someone
who sneaked across the border."

The INS records show that several of the key hijackers, who had been in the
United States in 2000, entered the country for the final time in May and June.
They included Atta, Marwan Al-Shehhi and Khalid Almihdhar.

Three of the six hijackers whose names do not appear in immigration records
received Florida photo identification cards in early July. For the other three,
there is no record of a driver's license or ID card issued by either Florida or
Virginia, the two states where the other 16 hijackers obtained identification
documents.

Two of the hijackers, Khalid Almihdhar and Alhazmi, were placed on a watch list
this summer after U.S. intelligence received information they might have been
meeting with suspected terrorists. By the time they were added to the watch
list, they already entered the United States, officials said.

Almihdhar entered the country in July, the month before he was placed on the
watch list; Alhazmi entered in January 2000.

The INS has been under increased scrutiny since the attacks. Critics have said
for years that the agency is poorly managed, inefficient and fails to keep
illegal aliens and criminals out of the country.

In his testimony, Ziglar said "there is no quick fix, technological or
otherwise, to the problems we face."

He said Attorney General John Ashcroft already has approved a plan to
restructure the INS, and it will soon be presented to Congress. It would:

-- Require airlines to submit "advance passenger information" before allowing
passengers to board when entering or departing the United States. This would
help prevent known or suspected terrorists and criminals from boarding.

-- Make advance passenger information widely available to law enforcement
agencies.

-- Integrate all INS computer systems so that information from all sources on
aliens is accessible to inspectors, special agents, adjudicators and other law
enforcement agencies.

-- Review the list of designated ports of entry, in concert with the U.S.
Customs Service, to eliminate unnecessary ports. This will allow the INS to
deploy more inspectors to fewer locations.

-- Increase the number of border patrol agents and support staff along the
northern border.

-- Expand access to biometric identification systems, such as the IDENT system.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The War on Terrorism

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 30, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

WHAT'S NEW

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 131 words


IMMIGRANT INFORMATION

An interactive computer kiosk that provides free information and forms from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service will make its debut today in St. Paul.

A demonstration of the new service will take place at 1 p.m. today at St. Paul's
Lexington branch library at 1080 University Ave.

Library staff can assist users and provide forms, said Tim Counts, a spokesman
for the area INS office.

The kiosk also has information on 30 state and federal services and programs.

Officials hope making basic information available through the kiosk will help
reduce waiting times and long lines at the INS office, Counts said. If the kiosk
proves useful, the INS may place others in the Twin Cities metro area. For
information call the INS at (612) 313-9001.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 1, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

THE FRONT LINE;
THE INVESTIGATION

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 319 words


Attorney General John Ashcroft said there is no progress to report in finding
who has been sending anthrax or in preventing further mail attacks.

The FBI official overseeing the investigation of the Sept. 11 attacks and the
anthrax mailings will retire at the end of November, the agency said. Thomas
Pickard planned to retire last year but was urged to stay on.

Federal authorities have reportedly issued 60 subpoenas for records to anthrax
research facilities nationwide in an effort to determine whether the bacteria
used in deadly mail attacks may have been pilfered from a lab.

Three Arab men who lived in Michigan are believed to have had advance knowledge
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Ashcroft said. The men have been apprehended
by law enforcement agents.

Ashcroft announced a new immigration crackdown, designating 46 terrorist groups
whose members and supporters will be banned from entering the country.

The government may not be able to track the tens of thousands of students who
come to the United States each year, even if Congress insists on an improved
student visa program, a top immigration official said Wednesday.

FBI agents and customs officials boarded a Northwest Airlines flight from Tokyo
at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport Wednesday and removed two men in
response to a biohazard threat. A sweep of the plane found no signs of hazardous
material. Another Northwest flight from Tokyo was similarly detained in San
Francisco.

Pakistan has arrested three of the country's leading nuclear scientists and held
them for questioning in connection with U.S. concerns that nuclear weapons
technology could have found its way into the hands of Osama bin Laden, officials
said.

Federal officials Wednesday denied knowledge of a story Knight Ridder reported
Tuesday that authorities had questioned and released six Middle Eastern men in
the Midwest. Story, Page 7A

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AT A GLANCE INFORMATION ON THE WAR

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                November 1, 2001 Thursday NORTH SUBURBAN EDITION

LEAGUE HOSTS FORUM ON ELECTION REFORM

BYLINE: Emily Topinka, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 221 words


The League of Women Voters of the White Bear Lake/North Oaks/Mahtomedi Area and
Century College are sponsoring a forum on election reform today. The event will
be held in the Century College cafeteria at 2 p.m.

On the meeting agenda: voting machine technology, the future of Minnesota's
alternative political parties and democracy through new Americans' eyes.
"Controversy surrounding the last election made us think about some of the
things we are dealing with," said Janet Youel, one of the organizers of the
event. Among the speakers will be Minnesota Secretary of State Mary Kiffmeyer.

Naly Yang, executive director of the Woman's Association of Hmong and Lao, will
speak on the topic of democracy through new Americans' eyes.

"Sometimes we take it for granted that everyone knows what democracy means."
Yang said. "People assume that immigrants will learn by assimilation what it
means. However, sometimes there is no transferable definition in the language of
the immigrants." Yang will also discuss how the process of voting is different
in this country from others, and some of the barriers that immigrants and
refugees face when trying to vote.

Other speakers include Brad King from the Secretary of State's office and Grace
Wachlarowicz, who works for the city of White Bear Lake. The event is free.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 8, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

CASH-TRANSFER OFFICES RAIDED LOCAL WIRE SERVICES THAT HELP IMMIGRANTS SEND MONEY
HOME ARE LINKED TO OSAMA BIN LADEN

BYLINE: RICK LINSK, DOUG PETERS AND TODD NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1290 words


President Bush's campaign against suspected terror mastermind Osama Bin Laden
swooped into the Twin Cities on Wednesday as federal agents raided several
businesses in Minneapolis' Somali community that the administration believes may
have been involved in financing terrorist activity.

Some members of the Somali community reacted angrily to the U.S. Customs Service
raids, which shut down money-transfer agencies known as "hawalas" that are
considered lifelines to Somali immigrants' family members in Africa.

Five entities and one individual, all in Minneapolis, had their assets frozen
and were subjected to search warrants:

-- Aaran Money Wire Service Inc., 1806 Riverside Ave., Second Floor;

-- Somali International Relief Organization, 1806 Riverside Ave., Second Floor;

-- Al-Barakaat Wiring Service, 2940 Pillsbury Ave., Suite 4;

-- Barakaat International Inc., 1929 S. Fifth St., Suite 205;

-- Global Service International, 1929 S. Fifth St., Suite 204;

-- Garad Jama, 27, also known as Garad K. Nor and Fartune Ahmed Wasrsame, 2100
Bloomington Ave. and 1806 Riverside Ave., 2nd Floor.

At the Riverside Avenue address, federal agents loaded file cabinets and office
chairs onto a truck as local Somalis watched with a mix of curiosity and
despair. Though the government's target list named Aaran Money Wire Service and
Somali International Relief Organization, the building's storefront and
second-floor windows identified the business as Amal Express, one of
Minneapolis' older Somali money-exchange services.

One of the onlookers, Zahra Abdi, said someone had been taken into custody
earlier in the day. According to some reports, the man's head was covered and
his hands cuffed when agents led him out of the building.

U.S. Attorney Thomas Heffelfinger said no one was arrested Wednesday. One
person, whom he would not identify, was held for a time by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for initially lacking immigration papers but was later
released after producing the proper documents, Heffelfinger said.

About two blocks away, the offices of Barakaat International and Global Service
International, also known as Somali Global, were locked Wednesday afternoon. A
sign declaring the business sealed and its assets frozen was taped to the door:

"These premises have been sealed and property blocked by order of the United
States Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control," the sign
read.

On Pillsbury Avenue in South Minneapolis, inside a bustling minimall that houses
several Somali businesses, the door to Al-Barakaat Wiring Service was locked.
Neighboring merchants said the owners had closed the business early.

CONNECTION SEVERED

s the search warrants were carried out, details of the investigation remained
sketchy, including the amount of assets frozen, how much money investigators
believe was being channeled through the Twin Cities, and whether customers had
any idea their money might have gone to terrorist-related organizations.

Heffelfinger declined to fill in those details. But he did take note of the
tensions that followed the raids.

"These actions are based on a determination by the Treasury Department that
these organizations may have provided financial support or services to other
individuals or groups that were engaged in terrorism," Heffelfinger said. "There
is nothing about the blocking orders that should be interpreted as a blanket
accusation against any organization or group of people in the Twin Cities."

The anxieties partly stem from the fact that the financial crackdown cut the
connection between Twin Cities Somalis and their families in Africa.

At an international music and video store next door to the Riverside Avenue
businesses raided Wednesday, an Ethiopian man who identified himself only as
Legesse said he used a similar money exchange service nearby. Such services
often are the only option for people sending money to help friends and family in
Somalia, he said.

"Western Union, that's very expensive," he said. "And there's no Western Union
in some countries."

Legesse, who has been in the United States for more than 20 years, said the
stores normally charge about $5 for every $100 sent, just a fraction of the
amount other firms usually charge to wire money.

"These people who were left behind (in Somalia), how long will they survive if
these things are closed down?" worried Zahra Abdi. "They were like relief
agencies for us. They helped our people. Now, no money is getting through, and
they're going to die soon."

Other Somali tenants of the small office building were indignant that the
government would suspect the money-exchange services of aiding terrorists. They
said they work multiple jobs to scrape together enough money to send to their
families.

"We think it is unfair to the Somali community and we think we are targeted just
because of our religion," said Abdi Karim Mohamed, who was joined by several
friends in the narrow hallway that leads to the sealed money-exchange office.

"We don't know anything about al-Qaida or Osama bin Laden," he said.

A flier was circulated after the raids announcing a vigil at 6 tonight near the
corner of 20th Street and Riverside Avenue, sponsored by the Somali Justice
Advocate Center.

ACTIVE ACCOUNTS

innesota has one of the largest Somali populations in the United States,
estimated at 15,000 to 20,000. Refugees began arriving in the mid-1990s,
displaced from their East African homeland by civil war and expelled from
refugee camps in neighboring countries. Somalis who initially resettled in other
states have flocked to the Twin Cities to find jobs and reunite with family
members.

As the population grew, the entrepreneurial money-wiring companies sprouted,
enabling Somalis to reliably send funds back to relatives in their war-torn
homeland.

The transfer companies, which are not subject to state regulation -- but will
be, starting Jan. 1 -- have been under scrutiny by local and federal law
enforcement authorities for more than two years, long before the Sept. 11
attacks attracted attention to bin Laden's network.

Minneapolis police had concerns in 1999 about large sums of money flowing
through the accounts of a Minneapolis bank. Police identified more than a dozen
accounts that moved more than $500,000 a month, they said.

Those efforts gave way to an even larger investigation by several federal
agencies, including the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, United
States Postal Service, Internal Revenue Service, Customs Service and the FBI.

Lt. Dana Smyser, investigative supervisor of the Minneapolis Police Department's
forgery and fraud unit, said it's likely that both honestly earned and
ill-gotten funds are traveling through the same channels.

"You have people legitimately working jobs, and they take a certain portion of
their paychecks and take it to the money transfer stations and send money back
home," Smyser said. "But you also have people that are involved in financial
crimes of large magnitude that are transferring funds through legitimate banks
and also through these transfer operations. And some of that money passes
through organizations, some of whom are terrorist-related."

Staff writers Mike Hughlett and Kevin Maler also contributed to this report.

The story was written by Rick Linsk. He can be reached at
rlinsk@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5371.

STEVEN SENNE, ASSOCIATED PRESS

Agents from various federal agencies remove boxes of office materials from
Barakaat North America Inc. from a small office building in Boston's Dorchester
district Wednesday. The business, and two in Minneapolis with similar names, are
suspected of having terrorist ties.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:SCOTT TAKUSHI, PIONEER PRESS
 A safe is carted away from a Minneapolis office building on Wednesday where
two businesses, Aaran Money Wire Service Inc. and the Somali International
Relief Organization, were shuttered and their assets frozen by U.S. Customs
Service agents. President Bush released a list of more organizations and
individuals believed to be connected to Osama bin Laden's financial network.
PHOTO:STEVEN SENNE, ASSOCIATED PRESS
Agents from various federal agencies remove boxes of office materials from
Barakaat North America, Inc. from a small office building in Boston's
Dorchester district Wednesday. The business, and two in Minneapolis with
similar names, are suspected of having terrorist ties.
Graphic:Pioneer Press Graphic
Where the raids took place
[See microfilm for details]

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    November 10, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

SOMALIS USE MONEY NETWORK TO AID KIN;
U.S. THINKS TERRORISTS SKIM SYSTEM'S PROFITS

BYLINE: RICK LINSK and TODD NELSON< Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 893 words


The phone in Marcos Bekuto's office on University Avenue in St. Paul rings
regularly with immigrants who need a bit of banking magic performed.

They want to send money to family or friends in Africa, but for a number of
reasons, banks are not a reliable method. Instead, they turn to an ancient
system known as "hawala," a blend of high-tech communications and old-fashioned
trust.

A customer here will hand Bekuto, say, $500 in cash -- plus a 5 percent service
charge -- and is promised that the next day, a broker in Africa will hand $500
to the intended recipient.

"This is a small banking system," Bekuto said. "Those who get the money from
this account have no other means. If you try to send money to refugee camps now,
you cannot do it through banks. People don't have the proper documents to
collect. People survive off what we send them."

The U.S. government turned a spotlight on the hawala industry this week,
claiming that some of the operations have been channeling money to terrorist
organizations. Customs Service agents shut down five Minneapolis businesses
Wednesday. Two were part of a far-flung network known as Barakaat, which
government officials say is intimately involved with Osama bin Laden's terrorist
network.

Treasury Department officials say they are not targeting all immigrants who are
wiring money, or even all money-wiring institutions. They say customers would
have had no idea that their transactions were funding terrorism.

From the customer's point of view, the informal system works. And that's why it
is called hawala -- said to be Arabic or Hindi for "trust."

When a customer visits Marcos Bekuto, he jots down information on a ledger
sheet: the sender's name, phone number, and the amount being sent, as well as
the recipient's name, city and country, and bank and phone information if
available.

At the end of each day, Bekuto sends an e-mail to an agent nearest the
recipient. Typical destinations this week included Mogadishu, Somalia; Addis
Ababa, Ethopia; and Nairobi, Kenya. After daybreak in Africa, the agent there
tracks down the recipient to say the cash is waiting.

If anything goes awry in the transaction, such as difficulty finding the
recipient, the overseas broker will alert Bekuto by e-mail. If all goes as
planned, the cash here is deposited in the bank account of Kaah Express, the
company Bekuto works for. Bekuto gets to keep a share of the surcharge fees.

A key point is that no money actually moves from here to the recipient. The Kaah
agents collect money here, the brokers dole out cash in Africa, and somehow the
network eventually ensures that the transactions balance out.

Bekuto, who came to Minnesota from the Horn of Africa's Oromo region 11 years
ago and is a licensed income tax preparer and insurance agent, is skeptical that
any group could get rich by diverting portions of the surcharges.

But U.S. authorities say that's exactly what bin Laden's al-Qaida network has
done with certain money-transfer agencies, somehow intervening in the middle or
end of the process.

Normally, one-fourth of the fee is kept by the hawala broker who takes the money
in the United States, and another quarter goes to the receiving hawala dealer in
Africa. The remainder, or half the fee, is sent to the main company that owns
the network. That's the point where Treasury officials believe tens of millions
of dollars was funneled to al-Qaida.

Concerns that the hawala system was subject to abuse predate the Sept. 11 terror
attacks. Underground "ethnic banking" has existed for hundreds of years or more.
However, experts say the advent of encrypted e-mail and Internet anonymity has
fueled a boom in the hawala and Chinese networks in Asia, the Black Market Peso
Exchange in Latin America and evolving courier systems in Europe.

The local businesses linked by federal officials to terrorism were Al-Barakaat
Wiring Service, 2940 Pillsbury Ave.; Barakaat International Inc., 1929 S. Fifth
St.; Aaran Money Wire Service Inc., 1806 Riverside Ave.; Somali International
Relief Organization, 1806 Riverside Ave.; and Global Service International, 1929
S. Fifth St. The list also singled out Garad Jama, 27, operator of one of the
agencies. He and others denied having anything to do with terrorism.

Saeed Fahia, executive director of the Confederation of Somali Community in
Minnesota, said there are seven or eight money-transfer businesses that have
been around since Somalis began arriving in the Twin Cities in large numbers.
Besides that established core, there are also smaller, more marginal operations
that have come and gone.

Some of the businesses are large and investor-owned, like the Barakaat
operations, while others are smaller and family-owned, Fahia said. The small
ones might start because an immigrant needs to get money back to a specific town
or refugee camp with no other alternative.

A customer will test a service by sending a small amount, say $50. If it goes
through, he or she might send more the next time. Fahia said he uses the
services to send money to his mother.

"The first time I heard of these hawalas, I didn't believe it," Fahia said. "But
it works, and that's what's so important."

Rick Linsk can be reached at rlinsk@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5371

Page: Money-transfer offices reopen for immigrants

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The War on Terrorism

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Takushi. Pioneer Press
Marcos Bekuto works in a money-transfer office in St. Paul that is not among
those suspected by the federal government of having financial ties to
terrorists.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    November 15, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

THE FRONT LINE;
THE INVESTIGATION

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 180 words


The British government released a 23-page document linking Osama bin Laden more
closely to the Sept. 11 attacks.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said the Immigration and Naturalization Service
would be split into two bureaus to streamline its border enforcement and service
duties.

Spanish police, who dismantled a radical recruitment cell this week linked to
al-Qaida, said they were searching for another three Islamic militants who
appeared in a video seized in police raids.

The FBI believes a Yemeni citizen who is the focus of a worldwide manhunt was
supposed to have been the 20th hijacker on Sept. 11 but failed to get into the
United States. Earlier, the government had suggested a man arrested in
Minnesota, Zacarias Moussaoui, was the 20th hijacker.

FBI raids on the homes of three Chester, Pa., city officials of Pakistani
descent appear to have turned up little of significance, officials said.

More than $56 million in financial assets linked to al-Qaida and the Taliban
have been blocked worldwide since Sept. 11, the Treasury Department said.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AT A GLANCE INFORMATION ON THE WAR

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 30, 2001 Friday CITY EDITION

THE FRONT LINE;
AT-A-GLANCE INFORMATION ON THE WAR

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 1441 words


The investigation
Foreigners who help catch terrorists can be rewarded with U.S. citizenship under
an initiative unveiled Thursday by Attorney General John Ashcroft. Even illegal
immigrants can avoid deportation through tips to federal investigators about
al-Qaida or other terrorists. Immigration lawyers praise the approach because it
promotes cooperation rather than coercing it.

A federal magistrate ordered Indonesian Agus Budiman held without bail after an
FBI agent testified Thursday that one of the Sept. 11 hijackers used the man's
Virginia address to gain entry into the United States. The FBI has linked
Budiman to three of the hijackers, including suspected ringleader Mohammed Atta,
and two others believed to have close ties to the terrorists.

An Algerian detained in Arizona on false ID charges said Wednesday he had no
connection to terrorism and remembers "nothing suspicious" about his one-time
roommate -- a pilot suspected of training Sept. 11 hijackers. Redouane Dahmani,
26, is charged with forgery, perjury, identity theft and giving false
information to the government, but not terrorism.

An Algerian man arrested in Canada was a close accomplice of Ahmed Ressam who
was convicted of plotting to bomb Los Angeles International Airport, according
to FBI documents made public Thursday. Samir Ait Mohamed discussed setting off
bombs in Montreal with Ressam and helped him plan the Los Angeles bombing plot
foiled by Ressam's arrest while trying to enter the United States in December
1999, the FBI says. The affidavits were among evidence to support a request to
extradite Mohamed to the United States.

Clayton Lee Waagner is a suspect in a string of anthrax hoax letters sent to
abortion clinics, authorities announced Thursday. The FBI says Waagner had
claimed responsibility for sending more than 280 letters to clinics across the
United States. None of the powder sent to the clinics has tested positive for
anthrax.

At home
The insurance industry got a boost on Thursday when the House passed legislation
to help the industry cover the cost of claims from any future terrorist attacks.
The vote was 227-193, mostly along party lines, as Democrats withdrew their
earlier support after restrictions on terrorism-related litigation were added to
the bill. The bill would commit the government, for at least a year, to covering
90 percent of losses from another major terror attack; insurance companies would
pay the rest. The measure would require insurers to reimburse the government for
the aid.

The Census Bureau has agreed to conduct a special survey that would give New
York a better barometer of how the terrorist attacks affected the city's economy
and transportation system. If Congress approves funding for it, the survey would
provide data vital for recovery and rebuilding plans, said Joseph Salvo,
director of the population division of the city's planning department. City
officials have estimated that damage and recovery from the Sept. 11 attacks
could cost $100 billion. Salvo said he was especially interested in three
questions: How many jobs were lost? How many people returned to work at
different locations? How did commuting patterns change?

Health officials told Congress Thursday that $3 billion is needed to prepare for
bioterrorism, twice as much as President Bush is requesting. Some lawmakers
suggested the president was shortchanging the problem. On the cleanup,
authorities were set to begin a first-of-its-kind fumigation of part of the Hart
Senate Office Building, where an anthrax-packed letter to Senate Majority Leader
Tom Daschle was opened. Beginning today, they planned to fill Daschle's office
with chlorine dioxide gas.

President Bush defended his plans for military tribunals to try foreign
terrorists to federal prosecutors from across the country, telling them that
such people are war criminals who "must never again be allowed to use our
freedoms against us." The Nov. 13 presidential order gives Bush the power to
send foreigners suspected of terrorism to military courts, where they could be
tried in secret without the protections provided defendants in civilian courts.

The New York Police Department has ordered all 55,000 employees, including
uniformed officers, to attend mental health counseling to relieve the stress and
strain imposed by the attack on the World Trade Center and its aftermath. The
counseling sessions are inspired by a similar plan used for rescue workers after
the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 and will be financed by the Police Foundation,
a private nonprofit service group.

Military maneuvers
Anti-Taliban troops pushed to the outskirts of Kandahar on Thursday and were
engaged in heavy fighting, a senior Northern Alliance commander said. Bismillah
Khan, the alliance's deputy defense minister, told the Associated Press that
there was non-stop fighting on the city's eastern edge. Khan said he did not
expect the city to fall quickly. The Pentagon said opposition troops may be in
the provincial district around the city, but couldn't confirm if they were in
the city itself. The Taliban reportedly hanged an Afghan man after accusing him
of helping Americans call in airstrikes.

A U.S. official in Washington said there were credible reports that Taliban
intelligence chief Qari Ahmadulla had defected to Northern Alliance rebels. But
a defense official said he was still negotiating for his surrender in Kandahar.

A founding Taliban member who defected to the rebel Northern Alliance last week
provided intelligence to senior alliance commanders for the past four years, he
said Wednesday. Mullah Almaj Khaksar, the Taliban's deputy interior minister and
one of the most senior Taliban officials, said he became disillusioned with the
Taliban leadership after they captured Kabul in 1996. He also said he had a
falling out with Osama bin Laden over the role of Arab Muslims and his training
camps.

Despite intense bombing by U.S. warplanes, Taliban forces in southeastern
Afghanistan launched a swift counterattack Thursday against Pashtun tribal
fighters who are closing in from two sides on Kandahar. The Taliban strike was
aimed at Takhteh Pol, a city 25 miles southeast of Kandahar that was captured
over the weekend by U.S.-backed Pashtun guerrillas. The counterattack at Takhteh
Pol showed that the Taliban militia remains a force to be reckoned with in the
stretches of southeast Afghanistan that it still controls.

A soldier in Uzbekistan with the U.S. Army's 10th Mountain Division died
Thursday of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound, defense officials said.
The Pentagon, which withheld the soldier's name pending notification of next of
kin, said in a three-sentence announcement that "his death was not the result of
enemy action."

Around the world
The Northern Alliance dropped its rejection of international security forces in
peace talks in Germany on Thursday. Their envoy said, however, they could arrive
only after an interim authority w as in place. The Northern Alliance prefers a
force drawn from Islamic nations. The turnaround brought the position of the
Northern Alliance closer to the three other groups at the conference,
representing the former King Mohammed Zaher Shah and two smaller exile groups.
Delegates also made progress on drawing up an interim administration of 15-25
people with executive powers, and a larger supreme council of up to 200 with a
semi-legislative role. A transitional administration would run the country for
two years and pave the way for democratic rule.

Hundreds of Britons gathered in Westminster Abbey on Thursday to mourn 78
countrymen killed in the World Trade Center attacks. The memorial service was
attended by Queen Elizabeth II, Prince Charles, and Prime Minister Tony Blair,
and roughly 800 relatives and friends of the British men and women who died. The
bereaved placed white roses and pictures on a stone tablet inscribed with the
words, "Remember all Innocent Victims of Oppression, Violence and War."

Dangerous roads and a mobile population are crumbling hopes that emergency aid
would get through quickly to the Afghan population, the European Union said
Thursday. In addition to land mines and road bandits, a major problem facing
relief workers is uncertainty over where Afghans have fled and when they will
return to their homes. A crucial bridge into northern Afghanistan from
Uzbekistan remains closed, cutting off the most promising avenue for shipping in
supplies. Oxfam International, a non-governmental aid group, called for the
immediate deployment of a United Nations military force to the country.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The War on Terrorism

GRAPHIC: Graphic: Knight Ridder Tribune
Key issues for Afghan factions

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 1, 2001 Saturday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION NOOSE SNAGS MINOR VIOLATORS;
U.S. MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO LEAVE JAIL OR EVEN FIND OUT CHARGES

BYLINE: CHRIS MONDICS, Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 572 words


WASHINGTON -- Amid growing criticism from lawyers and civil rights groups, the
Justice Department is making it far more difficult for persons accused of minor
immigration law violations to get out of jail, or even in some cases to learn
the charges against them.

The policy is designed to aid the government's investigation of the Sept. 11
attacks on the Pentagon and New York's World Trade Center and to head off
further acts of terrorism. But, because only a handful of the 1,100-plus people
picked up in the probe have been charged with terrorism-related crimes, the most
noticeable consequence so far has been a severe tightening of procedures for
handling minor violations that in the past would have resulted in release.

"It is now very easy for a noncitizen to get arrested and very difficult for a
noncitizen to get released," said David Leopold, a Cleveland attorney who
represented 11 Israelis picked up Oct. 31 and held for weeks on violations of
tourist visas as a result of the Sept. 11 investigation.

President Bush and the Justice Department respond that the nationwide sweep for
terrorists already has resulted in the arrests of members of Osama bin Laden's
terror network and helped prevent other attacks.

Justice officials say that while some of those arrested may have waited days or
weeks to reach their lawyers or to learn officially of charges against them,
such problems resulted from individual slipups, not department policy.

"It may well be that in the early parts of this investigation, as people were
moved around, there was some slippage," said Michael Chertoff, a top Justice
Department official overseeing Sept. 11 cases. "But we want everybody to have
access to their lawyers and we want to play by the rules."

Despite such assurances, the huge number of arrests has triggered intense
concern, not only in this country but also abroad. On Thursday, the Egyptian
foreign minister, Ahmad Maher, protested to Secretary of State Colin Powell that
the United States had not identified several dozen Egyptians being held as part
of the probe, or outlined the charges against them. Egypt is one of several
countries that has complained of difficulty getting information about citizens
detained in the investigations.

The State Department says it does not provide lists of foreign nationals
arrested to their embassies because the detainees may not want to be identified.
However, detainees for immigration law violations are told they have a right to
contact their embassies, State Department spokesman Rich-ard Boucher said.

A Washington Post-ABC news poll found that nine of 10 Americans favor the
arrests. Some 79 percent support Ashcroft's plan to interview 5,000 young men,
mostly Middle Easterners in the United States on temporary visas.

Both Congress and the Justice Department have changed rules governing the
handling of immigration cases, making it much more difficult for persons being
held on minor immigration charges to get out of jail.

The first change came shortly after the attacks, when Ash-croft extended from
one day to two the period in which officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service can detain an alien in custody. Weeks later, enactment of
the USA Patriot Act gave INS officials up to a week to charge violators. As
before, that deadline can be extended for a "reasonable period of time" if INS
officials aren't ready to file formal charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The War on Terrorism

GRAPHIC: Photo: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmad Maher protested U.S. handling of the cases of
several dozen Egyptians being held as part of the terrorism probe.

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 6, 2001 Thursday CITY EDITION

NORTHERN OFFICIALS SEEK AID FOR BORDERS;
COMMERCE WITH CANADA AT STAKE, THEY SAY

BYLINE: CASSIO FURTADO, Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 422 words


WASHINGTON -- Governors and senators of Northern states asked Congress on
Wednesday to allocate more money to hire Customs and Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents to work at the border with Canada.

Without the extra border security, vulnerability to terrorists coming through
Canada will increase, the officials said at a hearing on Northern border
security before the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on the treasury and
general government. They complained that understaffed ports of entry created
long waits that would result in lost revenue from commerce and tourism.

"Decades of chronic ... neglect have left our Northern border porous and
inefficient," creating delays "that are beginning to cripple U.S.-Canadian trade
and undermine our national security," said Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.

A new INS budget, approved last week, gives $66.4 million for 570 new Border
Patrol agents and to 348 new INS inspectors. But leaders from the Northern
states said they did not know how many of them would work in the North.

Of the 430 new Border Patrol agents sent to border points in 2001, only 15 were
sent to the 4,000-mile U.S.-Canada border, according to Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H.

Prior to Sept. 11 "many ports of entry on the Northern border were guarded by
nothing more than a yellow cone," said Gregg.

In cities like Detroit, peak wait times at the border have climbed to 2 1/2
hours, Gregg said, and in some smaller ports of entry in New England the wait
can take two to three hours.

Michigan Lt. Gov. Dick Posthumus said that commerce between Michigan and Canada
had increased 10 percent each year since 1993, but that the Clinton and Bush
administrations hadn't taken steps to increase staffing at border posts.

Posthumus said that in the year 2001, 28 million vehicles will cross the
Ambassador Bridge in Detroit, the Detroit-Windsor Tunnel, the Blue Water Bridge
in Port Huron and the International Bridge at Saul Ste. Marie.

"The federal government must step up to the plate and address the situation," he
said.

Vermont Gov. Howard Dean said customs officials traditionally have inspected
less than 10 percent of all commercial vehicles coming to his state. After Sept.
11, their target is to visually inspect 75 percent of the traffic, he said. Dean
said security was an issue, but stressed the need for a friendly border with
Canada.

Six hundred National Guard officers will be sent to the border with Canada, but
the governors argued this couldn't be a permanent solution.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 10, 2001 Monday CITY EDITION

ST. PAUL NATIVE IS RHODES SCHOLAR;
HIGHLAND PARK GRAD ONE OF 32 U.S. WINNERS

BYLINE: MARY DIVINE, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 572 words


Rhodes scholar and St. Paul native Katharine Thornton Buzicky served in Army
ROTC and as a Princeton, N.J., Art Museum tour guide and lecturer during her
years at Princeton University.

It might seem like an unlikely combination of interests, but Buzicky was easily
able to reconcile the two, says Carol Ray, her art teacher at Highland Park
Senior High School.

"The thing about Kate is that she intuitively knows that this could be a
wonderful place, and she truly wants to make it a better world," Ray says.
"She's really and truly one of the best students I ever had, and I've been
teaching for 30 years."

Buzicky, 21, was one of 32 American students selected this weekend to receive
the prestigious Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University in England. Others
included a mathematician, an aspiring poet-neuroscientist and a skydiving
refugee worker from rural Iowa.

The scholarships, created in 1902 from the will of philanthropist and
colonialist Cecil Rhodes, is the oldest international study award available to
U.S. scholars.

Buzicky, a senior East Asian studies major at Princeton, speaks Japanese,
Portuguese and Spanish. She specializes in Japanese history, particularly the
1990 change in Japanese immigration law that allowed more Brazilians of Japanese
descent to immigrate to Japan. She is considering a military career and law
school.

Buzicky credits Princeton's ROTC with teaching her the value of teamwork and
endurance. "When things don't work out, I've learned to keep a steady frame of
mind," she says.

The 1998 graduate of Highland Park Senior High School says the school's
international baccalaureate program prepared her well for Princeton. "Going
there was one of the best choices I ever made. They put a lot of demands on you
and make you question a lot of things and question things in-depth," she says.

She also spent time at the Concordia Language Villages summer camps where her
mother was director of the Japanese village. Patricia Thornton has taught
Japanese at Minneapolis Public Schools and is now coordinator for teacher
development at the College of Education at the University of Minnesota.

"I asked her once if she felt she was as prepared as those who had come from
East Coast prep schools, and she said she felt more prepared because she knew
how to write and understood literature," Thornton says. "As a teacher in
Minneapolis public schools, I thought, 'OK, I know it works.' "

Buzicky financed her own Ivy League education through a ROTC scholarship and
working as a resident assistant, Thornton says.

"Kate has always had a propensity for applying herself and doing what needs to
be done," says her father, Greg Buzicky, director of the division of agronomy
and plant protection at the Minnesota Department of Agriculture. "She's always
had just a great joy about education and learning and all of her activities.
She's one of those people who lives life to the fullest and takes advantage of
everything she can."

The Rhodes scholarship winners this year were chosen from 925 applicants
endorsed by 319 colleges and universities; Harvard University led with five
recipients. They are selected on the basis of high academic achievement,
personal integrity, leadership potential and physical vigor, among other
attributes.

This report contains information from the Associated Press.

Mary Divine can be reached at mdivine@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5443.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Katharin Thornton Buzicky

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 11, 2001 Tuesday CITY EDITION

POET PUTS WORDS TO HER PEOPLE;
SOMALI IMMIGRANT ASHA ALI USES POETRY;
THE 'ULTIMATE FORM' OF EXPRESSION -- TO DESCRIBE AND CELEBRATE HER CULTURE.

BYLINE: David Hawley, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 763 words


Her poetry is a performance.

Clothed in yards of gold-flecked crimson, Asha Ali recites in a repetitive,
singing chant, her verses in Somali flowing as a roiling melody. Though the
language is foreign, the pulse of alliteration is palpable.

Sitting near her, Abdirizak Bihi, whose English is proficient, smiles and sighs
in appreciation.

"This is very wonderful," he says when Ali has finished. Then he pauses before
adding: "Of course, I cannot interpret it in a way that is even close to
adequate."

In September, the 61-year-old poet performed at a Somali community meeting that
had been called in response to the East Coast terrorist attacks. About 400
people crowded together at a community center in the Somali-dominated
Cedar-Riverside neighborhood of Minneapolis, and they erupted in enthusiastic
cheers whenever she paused.

"She is a superstar," Bihi said when introducing Ali to the non-Somalis
attending the meeting. He later said "superstar" was probably an inappropriate
description -- because to Somalis, poetry is never just entertainment.

"It is about a meditation on a particular moment and it has social and political
weight," said Somali native Ahmed I. Samatar, dean of international studies at
Macalester College in St. Paul. "This is a society that is very verbal, and
poetry is the ultimate form, the highest, most creative level."

The Somali language had no written form until one was created in the 1970s. Once
described as "a nation of poets in search of an alphabet," Somali society still
relies heavily on poetry to convey history, philosophy and political opinion.

There are two main forms of Somali poetry that roughly correspond to the sharply
distinguished roles of men and women in Somali culture, Samatar said. "Gabay,"
performed mainly by men, has a classical tradition, along with elevated language
and form that are centuries old.

"It speaks to historical processes, much like Shelley and Keats," Samatar said.
"In its greatest form, its practitioners are not just poets, but poets for the
age."

The second form, called "buraanbur," is often performed by women. Samatar calls
it "part of the broad poetic imagination of the Somali people."

Ali has created poetry in both forms, Bihi said, though he described the poetry
she recited at the recent community meeting as buraanbur.

Ali's recitation that night, according to Bihi, addressed "our tremendous need
to tell who we are." She spoke of the suffering of civil war, of coming as
refugees to America, and of the gratitude her people felt after finding refuge
in this country.

"You welcomed us without expecting anything in return," she said, speaking in
Somali, with Bihi interpreting. "This is what makes you strong and powerful."

It was, she said, the first poetry she had performed publicly in several years.
"When the terrible tragedy took place (on Sept. 11), I wanted to do something
about it," she said. "I didn't know where to start, but I felt it was urgent to
do this."

Ali came to the United States as a refugee in 1993 and lived for several years
in Southern California before moving to the Twin Cities about five years ago.
This year she became a naturalized U.S. citizen.

"I am filled with great pride," she said as she displayed her U.S. passport.

Her exit from Somalia came after a long period of homelessness in her own
country. She narrowly eluded execution by terrorist bands and on one occasion
put her poetic skills to work when she persuaded a group of armed men to let her
and a group of women escape unharmed.

"We are like your mothers," she told her captors. "Would you kill them?"

Today, Ali lives in a small apartment in one of the high-rise buildings in the
Cedar-Riverside neighborhood. Most of her neighbors are Somali, and some of them
who aspire to poetry come to her for coaching.

The poetry she wrote that was written down was destroyed during the Somali civil
war. "But it is a verbal culture," Bihi said. "Works never die. It will go on."

"America is like an ocean, never-ending," Ali said. "It is so huge and
prosperous, filled with smiling people and flowing rivers, peace and
tranquillity.

"We have more at stake here than many others," she added. "It is because we came
here from hell."

TO LEARN MORE

To learn more about Somalia, its culture and its community here or to be put
into contact with poet Asha Ali, call the Somali Community of Minnesota at (612)
871-6786 or the Somali Confederation of Minnesota at (612) 669-4386.

David Hawley can be reached at dhawley@pioneerpress.com or (612) 338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 PHOTOS: RICHARD MARSHALL, PIONEER PRESS
1) "America is like an ocean, never-ending," says Somali poet Asha Ali of
Minneapolis. "It is so huge and prosperous, filled with smiling people and
flowing rivers, peace and tranquillity. We have more at stake here than many
others. It is because we came here from hell."
2) Asha Ali, a Somali immigrant living in Minneapolis, uses poetry to express
her culture's experiences. Says Somali native Ahmed I. Samatar, dean of
international studies at Macalester College: "This is a society that is very
verbal, and poetry is the ultimate form, the highest, most creative level."

                     Copyright 2001 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 5, 2002 Saturday CITY EDITION

MOTHER STYMIED IN QUEST TO UNITE FAMILY

BYLINE: Don Boxmeyer, Pioneer Press Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1048 words


Maria Miho goes eagerly to her computer on the 15th day of each month and calls
up the Visa Bulletin, an esoteric and complicated U.S. government monthly
publication that has come to hold sway over her life.

She quickly scrolls down through the bureaucratic mumbo-jumbo to a chart that
pertains to her: the Priority Dates for family-based immigrant visas.

A date in that chart pops out at her; "08May96," a date that has not
significantly changed since last January. Quite simply, it means that her only
son and his family will not be admitted to the United States as immigrants any
time soon.

Her son, Norbert Szabo, is 32 and lives in Hungary with his wife, Beata, and
their two children, Richard, 8, and Jennifer, 4.

"Norbert was 22 when I started the immigration process," says Maria, 53, a
naturalized citizen from Hungary who lives on St. Paul's East Side with her
Hungarian husband, Lejos Miho, who is 62.

"When we first applied, we didn't like it but we understood it," says Maria.
"When we started, the wait was three years long, and each month the Visa
Bulletin came out. Sometimes, the dates got closer but then sometimes everything
slowed down and, in fact, in July of 2001 it went backward."

Maria's magic date is May 5, 1997, which is Norbert's "priority date," the date
his immigrant petition was approved by the U.S. government. When that date
coincides with the priority date in the Visa Bulletin, Norbert can at last look
forward to obtaining his visa.

But the priority date has been locked at May 8, 1996, for at least a year, and
international events, such as Sept. 11, have significantly affected the
immigration process.

For instance, the Chicago Tribune reported in late October that Americans' fear
of terrorism threatened to reverse a trend toward looser immigration policy.

Polls taken following the Sept. 11 disasters showed that Americans strongly
favor a stricter immigration policy.

And a controversial amnesty proposal under consideration by the Bush
administration for 3 million undocumented immigrants from Mexico all of a sudden
vanished from political view. One expert on U.S. immigration policy said then,
"Clearly the enthusiasm to make immigration easier has been put off the table."

In another immigration policy change embraced by the U.S. State Department,
foreigners offering information about potential terrorists will be given
preferential immigration status over any other applicants.

Norbert and his family, Maria says, "are starting to give up hope. They don't
know what to think anymore. Why don't they let people come here who've been
waiting years and years and years?

"My son is a talented woodworker and furniture builder, and he would be working
and paying taxes right away."

Maria was divorced from her first husband in Hungary when Norbert was just a few
months old.

She worked two jobs for more than 20 years and, about 10 years ago, married
Lejos, a former freedom fighter from the Hungarian Revolution whose family came
to the United States from Budapest in 1956.

She became a U.S. citizen and has always worked, caring for the mentally
disabled in a group home setting. When she became a citizen, she immediately
began trying to get her son and his family, who live in Garbony, Hungary,
admitted as immigrants.

Last June, for the first time, Maria sent a letter to her congressional
representative, newly elected Betty McCollum, a Democrat who represents the 4th
District. She chose McCollum, Maria says, because she wanted to plead her case
woman to woman, mother to mother.

"I don't need information about how the immigration (service is behind) with the
paperwork," she wrote. "I need real help to have my little family here."

She explained to McCollum that she had been advised by friends to bring Norbert
in as a visitor and then keep him here illegally but could not do that.

"I want to be a good citizen. I never did anything against the law in my
country. I never will here, either.

"I love this country, I love my job, I love my new family here. We have
together, with my husband, 13 grandkids. They are all around the Christmas tree
at my house, except for my own two little grandkids, every Christmas.

"If you can help a brokenhearted mother and grandma, please help me!"

What Maria got, however, was what she already knew: a short letter advising her
of Norbert's priority date. When she contacted McCollum's office for a personal
interview with the congresswoman, she says she was informed it would do no good.
She last talked with McCollum's office on Dec. 19, however, and was told at that
time that a meeting with the congresswoman could be arranged.

Bill Harper, McCollum's chief of staff in Washington, says such a meeting will
be arranged but doubted whether it would do Maria any good because the
immigration process has become "frozen" since Sept. 11.

"There is a freeze on all refugees," he says.

"We have dozens and dozens of immigration cases that come to us each month, and
the Maria Miho case is a prime example of how poorly the immigration service is
functioning right now."

Another problem is that Hungary is viewed as a country that has a functioning,
safe government whose applicants for immigration are not in imminent danger of
physical harm. Aliens from countries in conflict, Harper says, would be accorded
higher immigrant status.

Exceptions to immigration quotas are apparently made, however, if the applicant
is important enough. In 1994, Maureen Reagan, daughter of former President
Ronald Reagan, adopted a Ugandan girl. Last July, weeks before Maureen Reagan's
death, President Bush signed into law a special measure giving the girl
permanent U.S. residency.

Maria and Lejos recently returned to St. Paul from Hungary, where they visited
Norbert and his family during Beata's recuperation from an illness.

Maria is more determined than ever to press her case for the family's
immigration.

"Maybe I'll go one more time to the congresswoman," says Maria. "Maybe I want to
try one more time to have an interview, woman to woman, mother to mother.

"Who can help you but a congresswoman? They're the ones who make the law, aren't
they?"

Columnist Don Boxmeyer can be reached at dboxmeyer@pioneerpress.com or (651)
228-5568.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CRAIG BORCK, PIONEER PRESS
 Hungarian natives Maria and Lejos Miho of St. Paul flew to Hungary recently
to visit Maria's son and his family. She has been trying for 10 years to bring
them to the United States.

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 8, 2002 Tuesday CITY EDITION

NATIONAL BRIEFING

BYLINE: From wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 491 words


Former Tyson worker pleads guilty in case

A former Tyson Foods employee pleaded guilty to conspiracy Monday, admitting he
smuggled illegal immigrants into the country to work for the poultry giant and
provided them with fraudulent identification. Amador Anchondo-Rascon could face
a maximum sentence of five years in prison, a $250,000 fine and forfeiture of
any gains from the alleged conspiracy with Tyson that prosecutors say started in
1994. U.S. Attorney John MacCoon declined to say if the 43-year-old native of
Mexico would testify against six Tyson executives indicted last month on charges
of conspiring to smuggle immigrants to work at the company's poultry processing
plants.

IP will cut jobs, close containerboard mill

International Paper announced Monday it will cut 350 jobs, close a mill in
Oswego, N.Y., and reduce its containerboard capacity by 100,000 tons. The 350
jobs represent a 10 percent reduction in the mill work force of the Industrial
Packaging Group, while maintaining current production levels. All reductions
should be completed this year, IP said. A containerboard mill in Oswego, N.Y.,
will be shut down by the end of January, eliminating 102 jobs.

Qwest's Nacchio on FCC reliability panel

Qwest Communications International Chairman and CEO Joseph Nacchio has been
named to head the Federal Communications Commission's Network Reliability and
Interoperability Council. The NRIC was established in 1992 to bring together
leaders of the telecommunications industry and telecommunications experts from
academic, consumer and other organizations to explore and recommend measures
that will enhance network reliability. Qwest is Minnesota's largest provider of
local phone service, servicing some 2.1 million business and residential lines.

SEC criticizes Xerox accounting methods

Xerox Corp. said the Securities and Exchange Commission notified the biggest
maker of copiers that it was inaccurately booking sales of equipment and
services in a manner that may inflate results. The SEC's chief accountant said
the method used to recognize the timing of revenue from lease purchase
agreements "does not follow" established procedures, Xerox said in a regulatory
filing. In May, Xerox restated its financial results for the first nine months
of 2000, in part to reflect the misapplication of accounting procedures for
leases. Xerox said today the differences cited by the SEC are immaterial.

Circuit City sales better than expected

Circuit City Group, the second-largest electronics chain, increased its
quarterly profit forecast because of better-than-expected holiday sales. The
company's shares rose 8.3 percent. Earnings in the fourth quarter ending Feb. 28
will rise to 72 cents to 76 cents a share, the company said. The average
estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial was 71 cents. The
Richmond, Virginia-based company trails Eden Prairie-based Best Buy Co. by
sales.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CARLOS OSORIO, ASSOCIATED PRESS
It looks like a giant skateboard: 6 inches thick, 14 feet long, just over 6
feet wide, with an array of odd-looking ports and markings, all sitting on
oversized tires and shown at the North American International Auto Show in
Detroit on Monday. General Motors Corp. believes this thin, flat, almost
featureless structure just may be the foundation for the reinvention of the
automobile. The skateboard amounts to a docking station, chassis, to which a
body would be attached to form a vehicle GM calls Autonomy.

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 15, 2002 Tuesday CITY EDITION

HOPEFUL REFUGEES FIND DOORS TO U.S. ARE CLOSED;
ADMISSIONS SUSPENDED AFTER SEPT. 11 ATTACKS

BYLINE: MAJA BECKSTROM, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 801 words


Tatyana Rabinovich's mother had sold her apartment in the Ukraine and quit her
job. She had gone through a rigorous interview with American immigration agents
in Moscow. After a year of waiting, she was finally scheduled to join her
daughter in the United States.

But in early November, when she called to make final flight arrangements, the
door closed in her face. She was told the U.S. government had shut its borders
to refugees after the Sept. 11 World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks. Neither
she nor Rabinovich's 73-year-old grandmother would be allowed to enter the
country.

"I called them back and they were just devastated," said Rabinovich, 23, a
full-time computer science student who arrived in Minnesota four years ago.

The Rabinovich family was caught in the same tangle of uncertainty and delays as
tens of thousands of refugees who were scheduled to arrive in the United States
in the fall. After the Sept. 11 attacks, the Bush administration suspended
refugee admissions. As a result, about 22,000 refugees who already had been
approved for entry have not yet been allowed into the United States and most
overseas refugee processing has been halted.

Minnesota organizations that help refugees have been told by their national
affiliates not to expect more than a trickle until at least March.

"We usually resettle close to 700 refugees a year, at least 50 each month," said
Patti Hurd, who oversees refugee resettlement and employment programs for
Lutheran Social Service. "Since Oct. 1, we've had three refugees come through."

If the goal is to keep out terrorists, Hurd and others who work with refugees
say the new rules and delays don't make sense.

"Almost twice as many people come over on visas and they're not being affected
like the refugees are," she said. "The refugees are people who have suffered
already in their own country and are trying to escape it. They've been
scrutinized more than anyone and they're not the ones who are going to cause
terror when they're here."

In the year 2000, about 3,700 refugees arrived in Minnesota from places such as
Somalia, Vietnam and Bosnia. In 2001, about 2,500 refugees came, down about a
third. In the last three months of 2001, fewer than a dozen people arrived in
the state; they included a Vietnamese family that had delayed its original
departure because of a death in the family and a few young adults who were at
risk of losing their eligibility when they turned 21.

"One could guess that things will loosen up in three to six months, but it's
very difficult for agencies to plan," said John Borden of the International
Institute of Minnesota. "And it's very difficult for families to adjust
psychologically."

It's also a problem for the agencies, which are paid by the federal government
for each refugee they settle. With no refugees or money coming in, they've had
to reassign and lay off workers. They worry that they'll have difficulty
rebuilding their staff expertise once the flow of refugees resumes.

The delays result from three related problems. The first is simply bad timing.
The federal fiscal year ends Sept. 30, and generally September sees the heaviest
flow of refugees as agencies try to move people through the system before the
new year. In normal times, the president signs a declaration before Oct. 1 that
sets the number of refugees who may enter that fiscal year. This year, because
of concerns about security after Sept. 11, President Bush delayed the
declaration until Nov. 21. That meant no refugees could enter the United States
in October and most of November.

Second, new screening procedures have proved more cumbersome and time-consuming
than originally expected. Before a refugee receives permission to immigrate, he
is interviewed overseas by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. According
to Hurd, refugees are now also photographed and fingerprinted, and a more
rigorous effort is made to confirm identity, a difficult task for people who may
have fled with nothing but the clothes on their backs.

Compounding the delay is the lack of INS officers. After Sept. 11, most officers
were pulled out of foreign countries. Some have returned to embassies, but none
has returned to conduct interviews in the camps where most refugees are
confined. A spokesman with the INS said the agency anticipates restarting the
field interviews "shortly."

Rabinovich may be among the lucky ones. She has been given a new arrival date
for her mother and grandmother -- Valentine's Day. If they come before the end
of February, they will not have to undergo additional screening. She rented an
apartment for them in November and is scraping together the money to keep it
until they arrive.

Maja Beckstrom can be reached at mbeckstrom@ pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5295.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Tatyana Rabinovich

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 18, 2002 Friday CITY EDITION

"BLACK HAWK DOWN";
THE MOVIE;
SOMALIS IN TWIN CITIES PREPARE FOR REACTION;
SOME FEAR FILM WON'T GIVE AUDIENCES COMPLETE STORY

BYLINE: TODD NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 682 words


Somalis living in the Twin Cities say they are bracing for a possible backlash
to the opening today of the film "Black Hawk Down," Hollywood's version of the
1993 clash between U.S. forces and Mogadishu warlords. One Twin Cities Somali
resident said the movie portrays Somalis as "savage and pitiless beasts."

Leaders of Somali assistance agencies in the Twin Cities, home to the country's
largest concentration of refugees from the East African country, fear the film
will harm efforts to build links between Somalis who have resettled here and the
metro area's larger population.

Somalis say they hope American audiences will realize that the people who have
resettled here -- refugees from the trauma and torture of their country's
decade-long civil war -- have more in common with the U.S. troops who came under
heavy fire during the operation than with the militiamen the film shows
shooting, seemingly from every rooftop and window of the Somali capital.

The film arrives at a sensitive time for Somali immigrants. Before Sept. 11,
many struggled to find jobs and housing. Since the terrorist attacks, they have
had to face new worries, from scrutiny by federal agents questioning recent
immigrants to raids that closed five Somali-run money-transfer agencies in
Minneapolis.

Authorities alleged the agencies, which immigrants use to send money to
relatives in refugee camps, had ties to an international network supporting
terrorists.

"All these people who are now living in Minneapolis and the U.S., they were
victims of the warlords, too," said Mohamoud Egal, 49, a 1970s fighter pilot for
the Somali air force and one of four Twin Cities Somalis who watched an advance
screening Wednesday night at the invitation of the Pioneer Press. "They lost
their belongings, they lost their fathers and mothers, they lost their brothers
and sisters, most of them. They are survivors. They were thinking for a long
time to reach here and get peace. I know the American people; they will know
that."

The Somalis noted a number of inaccuracies, observing that the actors portraying
throngs of Somalis appeared to be from other African countries and that the city
setting bore little resemblance to Mogadishu. The film's narrow focus on intense
street combat, the Somalis said, left little room to explore the historical
context of Somalia's civil war and the famine that ensued, leading to the U.S.
relief mission that ended soon after the botched effort to capture two militia
leaders.

"It makes trivia out of a very tragic historic moment to both Americans and
Somalis with a huge loss of life in a very confusing movie without a plot," said
Omar Jamal, director of the Somali Justice Advocates Center of St. Paul, who
said he had talked to police and FBI agents in the Twin Cities about his
concerns of possible reprisals. "Somalis are depicted as savage and pitiless
beasts without giving them any human elements and emotional faces. I think the
whole message of the movie was sending is it's basically us against them."

To counter negative perceptions of Somalis that he fears may arise, Jamal said
he and others will stop at box offices tonight to distribute fliers providing
political background on Somalia and describing the experiences of people who
were in Mogadishu when the battle occurred.

The movie was not as inflammatory as Yusuf Budle, managing editor of Horn
Publishers Inc. of Minneapolis, which produces a monthly Somali newspaper, said
he had feared.

"It's just telling what happened within these short hours," Budle said. "This is
just a war. Nobody wins a war. Everybody fights back in a war. It's just either
you kill or you die. It shows there is no hatred between this country and
Somalia."

Hassan Eibakar, president of Horn Publishers, said: "The impact is what the
Americans do after they see the film. Somalis are shy people, they have problems
of their own. They are not in any position to do anything but just hide against
possible victimization or possible harm."

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story: HARTNETT COMES HOME

GRAPHIC: 5 Photos
1) Mohamoud Egal
2) Hassan Eibakar
3) Yusuf Budle
4) Oamr Jamal
5) Revolution Studios Photo
American troops descend upon Mogadishu, Somalia, in a scene from the film
"Black Hawk Down."

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    February 6, 2002 Wednesday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' SENTENCES VOIDED;
JUDGE'S COMMENTS ON DEPORTATION AT ISSUE

BYLINE: HANNAH ALLAM, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 441 words


The state Court of Appeals has thrown out the sentences of two women who were
given jail time instead of probation after a judge said they were better off in
a Minnesota prison than deported to their native Mexico.

Although the court found that Olmsted County District Judge Joseph F. Wieners
did not send the women to prison because of their national origin, it did find
that Wieners erred in considering deportation consequences of the pair's cocaine
convictions before sentencing them, according to the opinion filed Thursday. The
ruling indicates that judges should not take into account whether non-U.S.
citizens could be deported when handing down sentences.

Jorge Saavedra, chief legal officer of the Centro Legal in St. Paul, said the
Court of Appeals decision has benefits and drawbacks for non-citizen defendants.
In some cases, Saavedra said, it makes sense to talk about deportation
consequences and negotiate a sentence that does not send an offender to a
country where he or she has no ties and little familiarity.

"(The Court of Appeals) is trying to do a patch job on bad immigration policy,"
Saavedra said. "There is very little in the immigration code to allow for people
to get a second chance."

Thursday's decision also highlighted what the Court of Appeals considered
"inappropriate" comments made by the Olmsted County judge. The opinion included
this exchange from the original transcript:

Defense attorney: "Your Honor, have you ever lived in Mexico?"

Judge: "No, I haven't, and I don't wish to; and the part that Americans go to
are that thin little two blocks next to the beach. They don't go inland three
and four blocks where these people lived."

Defense attorney: "She would prefer to go back to Mexico rather than prison."

The judge argued that a Minnesota prison would afford the women medical, dental
and psychiatric care -- services he said they wouldn't receive in Mexico. He
sentenced each woman to 6 3/4 years in prison for conspiring to sell cocaine.
The Court of Appeals ruling sent the case back to district court, where Josefina
Sanchez Mendoza, 23, and Veronia Soto Alvarez, 19, will receive new sentences.

The women could still receive prison terms because the amount of cocaine
involved was more than the weight needed for a first-degree drug conviction,
according to the higher court's opinion. But the appellate judges also
considered the women good candidates for less strict sentences because they are
young, responded well to in-custody programs and had no previous criminal
history, the opinion says.

Hannah Allam can be reached at hallam@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    February 6, 2002 Wednesday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' SENTENCES VOIDED;
JUDGE'S COMMENTS ON DEPORTATION AT ISSUE

BYLINE: HANNAH ALLAM, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 441 words


The state Court of Appeals has thrown out the sentences of two women who were
given jail time instead of probation after a judge said they were better off in
a Minnesota prison than deported to their native Mexico.

Although the court found that Olmsted County District Judge Joseph F. Wieners
did not send the women to prison because of their national origin, it did find
that Wieners erred in considering deportation consequences of the pair's cocaine
convictions before sentencing them, according to the opinion filed Thursday. The
ruling indicates that judges should not take into account whether non-U.S.
citizens could be deported when handing down sentences.

Jorge Saavedra, chief legal officer of the Centro Legal in St. Paul, said the
Court of Appeals decision has benefits and drawbacks for non-citizen defendants.
In some cases, Saavedra said, it makes sense to talk about deportation
consequences and negotiate a sentence that does not send an offender to a
country where he or she has no ties and little familiarity.

"(The Court of Appeals) is trying to do a patch job on bad immigration policy,"
Saavedra said. "There is very little in the immigration code to allow for people
to get a second chance."

Thursday's decision also highlighted what the Court of Appeals considered
"inappropriate" comments made by the Olmsted County judge. The opinion included
this exchange from the original transcript:

Defense attorney: "Your Honor, have you ever lived in Mexico?"

Judge: "No, I haven't, and I don't wish to; and the part that Americans go to
are that thin little two blocks next to the beach. They don't go inland three
and four blocks where these people lived."

Defense attorney: "She would prefer to go back to Mexico rather than prison."

The judge argued that a Minnesota prison would afford the women medical, dental
and psychiatric care -- services he said they wouldn't receive in Mexico. He
sentenced each woman to 6 3/4 years in prison for conspiring to sell cocaine.
The Court of Appeals ruling sent the case back to district court, where Josefina
Sanchez Mendoza, 23, and Veronia Soto Alvarez, 19, will receive new sentences.

The women could still receive prison terms because the amount of cocaine
involved was more than the weight needed for a first-degree drug conviction,
according to the higher court's opinion. But the appellate judges also
considered the women good candidates for less strict sentences because they are
young, responded well to in-custody programs and had no previous criminal
history, the opinion says.

Hannah Allam can be reached at hallam@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 7, 2002 Thursday CITY EDITION

CITIZEN FEES INCREASE

SECTION: LOCAL; COMING SOON; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 144 words


Immigrants in the Twin Cities metro area may be hurrying to apply for
citizenship ahead of fee increases that take effect later this month.

As of Feb. 19, those applying for citizenship will have to pay $310, an increase
of $60.

Officials believe a recent increase in applications at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices in Bloomington and the Midway area may be
attributable to the coming fee hike, said INS spokesman Tim Counts.

INS officials in Washington have said the fees will help the agency speed
application processing. The INS can waive fees on a case-by-case basis.

For more information, call the INS National Customer Service Center at (800)
375-5283, where operators are available during business hours on weekdays and
recorded information is available any time, or visit the INS Web site at
www.ins.usdoj.gov.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 7, 2002 Thursday CITY EDITION

CITIZEN FEES INCREASE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 144 words


Immigrants in the Twin Cities metro area may be hurrying to apply for
citizenship ahead of fee increases that take effect later this month.

As of Feb. 19, those applying for citizenship will have to pay $310, an increase
of $60.

Officials believe a recent increase in applications at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices in Bloomington and the Midway area may be
attributable to the coming fee hike, said INS spokesman Tim Counts.

INS officials in Washington have said the fees will help the agency speed
application processing. The INS can waive fees on a case-by-case basis.

For more information, call the INS National Customer Service Center at (800)
375-5283, where operators are available during business hours on weekdays and
recorded information is available any time, or visit the INS Web site at
www.ins.usdoj.gov.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    February 16, 2002 Saturday CITY EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE PROPOSAL OPPOSED;
U.S. NONRESIDENTS FEAR HARASSMENT

BYLINE: Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 419 words


A provision in the Minnesota House anti-terrorism bill mandating a special mark
on U.S. nonresidents' driver's licenses would make immigrants targets of
harassment and discrimination, immigrants and their representatives testified
Friday.

The driver's license provision is part of a bill written in reaction to Sept.
11. The bill received its final hearing today and is slated for its last
committee vote on Tuesday.

"If you distinguish us from the average person on the street it will create a
discriminatory platform, and anyone on the street can harass us," said Barre
Farah, member of the Somali Justice Advocacy Center.

Rep. John Tuma, one of the chief sponsors of the House anti-terrorism bill, said
the new licenses would only include coding on their backs indicating they are
held by a visa holder and would not make immigrants more vulnerable.

"All we are saying is there is a code there that states this driver's license is
temporary," said Tuma, R-Northfield. "We want local law enforcement to have full
information. ...We're not saying that we are going to mark you and highlight you
to the public. We are not going to do that."

Public Safety Commissioner Charlie Weaver said he had hoped the Legislature
would approve measures that would make visa holders' driver's licenses look
different from other licenses, perhaps with distinct coloring or a slash through
them. The House bill doesn't go far enough in that regard, he said.

Still, he said, the House bill is acceptable and he acknowledged that a
provision making visa holders' licenses look substantially different would be
unlikely to pass in the Senate.

A Senate anti-terrorism bill making the rounds in committees also includes a
provision to make visa holders' driver's licenses expire when their visas do.

The House bill includes provisions that would close public officials' meetings
if they are discussing security issues; expand the list of crimes for which law
enforcement may use wiretaps, and authorize pipeline and utility employees to
detain people they believe to be trespassing.

Charles Samuelson, executive director of the Minnesota Civil Liberties Union,
said the Legislature is moving too quickly on anti-terrorism bills, which
attempt to deal with the reasonable fear of terrorism but step on civil
liberties.

The House anti-terrorism bill is slated to be up for a vote on the House floor
before the end of this month.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 28, 2002 Thursday

Many illegal immigrants have taken jobs no one else would, and revived
neighborhoods the rest of us had given up, on in hopes of achieving the American
dream. The Enemy Within?

BYLINE: PAUL GREENBERG Syndicated Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 839 words


At all-too-loose count, there are some 314,000 foreign nationals in this country
who have ignored court orders to leave. And the Justice Department, finally
awake after Sept. 11, is starting to look for these absconders. But where do
they begin?

The answer is obvious: With foreign nationals from those countries that supplied
the terrorists who attacked and still threaten us. Countries in the Middle East.
Countries that have been identified as hosts to al-Qaida networks. Put first
suspects first.

This order of priorities makes sense, so naturally the usual groups have
objected. "This whole path the government is taking is clearly a case of racial
profiling," complains Khalil Jahshan of the Arab-American Anti-Discrimination
Committee.

Well, it's certainly a case of criminal profiling, since everybody on the list
will have ignored a court order. And while we wouldn't want anybody arrested
just for Driving While Arab, the combination of having broken the law and coming
from a hotbed of al-Qaida activity should be enough to place these 6,000 or so
from the Middle East at the top of the Wanted list.

Not that the other 300,000 foreigners ignoring deportation orders mostly from
Latin America should be neglected. But there's still a war on, you know, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, never adequately financed, is
hard-pressed. It needs to set some priorities, instead of arresting lawbreakers
at random, the way we're searched at airports.

The fear of racial profiling seems to have reduced us to a nation of Inspector
Clouseaus. Surely we ought to be able to recognize the difference between (a)
somebody who's been in this country illegally for months while shopping around
for flying lessons, buying one-way air tickets and hobnobbing with known
terrorists; and (b) the illegal alien who snuck across the Rio Grande in '65,
raised a family of Americans here, worked hard, paid his taxes and otherwise
obeyed the law.

And now lives in terror of being discovered.

Not just mercy recommends different treatment for that second kind of illegal,
but justice and the national interest. These people have contributed to the
country's strength and prosperity, and some way needs to be found to let them
make amends, get right with the law and one day apply for citizenship though not
a day earlier than immigrants who follow the rules.

Unfortunately, in uneasy times justice, mercy and common sense all tend to
evaporate. Ambitious demagogues don't help. For their own reasons, they blur the
line between the terrorist and the illegal alien, even between legal and illegal
immigration. They've long wanted to seal this country's borders, and they're
using what happened Sept. 11 as an argument not against terror but against
immigration.

Consider the Immigration Reform Caucus in Congress. Every cause seems to have
its own caucus in Congress, and immigration certainly needs reforming what with
an estimated 8 million illegals in the country, and the country's borders all
too porous.

But the word "reform" can be used to cover a multitude of sins, like denying
immigrants who have needed skills entrance, or labeling every immigrant a
terrorist, or as one candidate for Congress in Arkansas suggested a while back
diverting the U.S. Army to the Mexican border. Although it's really needed
elsewhere just now.

This is not to say that the Immigration Caucus doesn't have some good, not to
say overdue, ideas. For example: Create a unified agency to guard the borders
instead of the hodgepodge of bureaucracies now not quite in charge.

Tom Ridge needs to be directing our security in more than title, though it may
take innumerable turf battles before he's allowed to do his job, if he ever is.

Unfortunately, the Immigration Caucus has come up with some bad ideas, too. For
example, a six-month moratorium on visas. Which could deprive the country of all
kinds of useful and promising people from scientists and artists to laborers and
investors. That kind of thinking might wall off America more effectively than
the terrorists ever could.

Terror may make a dandy excuse to close the country's gates, but there's no good
reason to shut out perfectly legal immigrants or ignore their value. In recent
decades, immigrants have saved America's inner cities. They've invested their
labor, ingenuity, energy and hopes in this country from California's rich
valleys to the chicken plants of Northwest Arkansas that now feed the world.

These immigrants have taken jobs no one else would, and revived neighborhoods
the rest of us had given up on. They and their posterity represent human
capital, the most valuable kind, the kind that has long enriched America and the
American language.

Good people genuinely concerned about immigration might be assured by
remembering how America became America through immigration.

Greenberg is editorial page editor of the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 121 E.
Capitol Ave., Little Rock, AR 72201. Distributed by the Los Angeles Times
Syndicate.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 19, 2002 Tuesday

Plan to police borders prepared

BYLINE: Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 283 words


WASHINGTON The Bush administration is poised to recommend a dramatic
reorganization of the federal agencies charged with protecting the nation's
borders by merging the Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the Border Patrol, administration and congressional officials said
Monday.

The merger of the three agencies, each responsible for part of the nation's
border security, would be an effort to streamline government functions and shore
up the nation's porous border defenses as a response to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. The restructuring, which would require congressional approval, is
intended to improve coordination among the thousands of federal workers who
protect U.S. borders but work for different organizations.

Similar proposals have been rejected since the Nixon administration, but the
imminent agreement reflects the government's new sense of urgency in overcoming
bureaucratic hurdles.

Senior administration officials will meet today to finalize the merger proposal
and draft recommendations for President Bush, officials said. The consolidation
has been a priority for Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge, who has been
forced to negotiate bureaucratic turf battles within the administration.

Although top Bush advisers have agreed to combine the INS and Border Patrol,
which are part of the Justice Department, with Customs, which is part of the
Treasury Department, they have yet to decide whether the new agency will be part
of Justice or a stand-alone organization, possibly under Ridge. Democrats in
Congress are seeking to create a new Cabinet department responsible for homeland
security something President Bush has opposed.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 19, 2002 Tuesday

Plan to police borders prepared

BYLINE: Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 284 words


WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration is poised to recommend a dramatic
reorganization of the federal agencies charged with protecting the nation's
borders by merging the Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the Border Patrol, administration and congressional officials said
Monday.

The merger of the three agencies, each responsible for part of the nation's
border security, would be an effort to streamline government functions and shore
up the nation's porous border defenses as a response to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. The restructuring, which would require congressional approval, is
intended to improve coordination among the thousands of federal workers who
protect U.S. borders but work for different organizations.

Similar proposals have been rejected since the Nixon administration, but the
imminent agreement reflects the government's new sense of urgency in overcoming
bureaucratic hurdles.

Senior administration officials will meet today to finalize the merger proposal
and draft recommendations for President Bush, officials said. The consolidation
has been a priority for Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge, who has been
forced to negotiate bureaucratic turf battles within the administration.

Although top Bush advisers have agreed to combine the INS and Border Patrol,
which are part of the Justice Department, with Customs, which is part of the
Treasury Department, they have yet to decide whether the new agency will be part
of Justice or a stand-alone organization, possibly under Ridge. Democrats in
Congress are seeking to create a new Cabinet department responsible for homeland
security -- something President Bush has opposed.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 2, 2002 Tuesday

RAMSEY COUNTY: Immigrant's identity case resolved

BYLINE: HANNAH ALLAM Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 453 words


A Vietnamese woman who assumed her sister's identity and entered Minnesota
illegally three years ago will now be allowed to live under her own name,
according to a Ramsey County judge's decision Monday.

District Judge John B. Van de North granted the woman's unprecedented request to
correct the names on her marriage certificate and a child's birth certificate to
reflect their true identities. The judge's decision, however, does not protect
the woman from possible deportation.

The fact that 37-year-old Xuan Thi Nguyen has lived as an impostor with the help
of her husband, 50-year-old Raymond Truelson, is a matter that will now be
handled by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. The St. Paul couple
exposed the deceit in a form for the INS, which is now weighing whether to grant
a waiver that would allow Nguyen to remain in the United States, according to
the judge's order.

Attorneys representing the couple -- Brian Aust and Margaret Gustafson -- did
not return calls seeking comment.

Van de North said the most difficult aspect of the case was determining whether
his position as a district judge prevented him from taking into account
immigration aspects of the case that are typically handled by federal
authorities. The couple's request asked the judge to correct two documents
without considering how Nguyen entered the country.

"(Nguyen) convinced me who she was and she seemed to be willing to correct some
of the mistakes she's created," Van de North said. "It seemed unreasonable to
stand in the way of that."

Truelson and Nguyen's relationship did not begin as a classic love story. He was
first married to her younger sister, who returned to Vietnam after the two
divorced and later allowed her sister to assume her identity.

According to family court papers:

In August 1994, Truelson, then 42, married 19-year-old Ngoc Thi Nguyen in
Vietnam. Truelson and Ngoc Thi Nguyen stayed together long enough for her to
obtain all the necessary papers to live in the United States. When they divorced
in 1998, Ngoc Thi Nguyen left for Vietnam with a visa that would allow her to
return to the United States.

She never came back. Instead, Truelson again traveled to Vietnam and this time
married Xuan Thi Nguyen. The newly married couple, with the younger sister's
permission, used her re-entry visa and other papers to move to Minnesota. A
Ramsey County marriage license and a birth certificate for the couple's
2-year-old daughter show the younger sister's name.

Monday's decision was accompanied by a court order that state departments issue
the couple new documents with the correct names.

Hannah Allam can be reached at hallam@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 14, 2002 Sunday

Our families' pasts help us understand our new neighbors

BYLINE: JUSTIN PIEHOWSKI Community Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 793 words


This month is the 50th anniversary of my grandparents moving to East Side of St.
Paul from war-torn Poland, via the German work camps, after World War II.

Over the years, two of their daughters and one of their grandsons -- yours truly
--would work at a small supermarket on Maryland Avenue called Knowlan's.

The building that used to be Knowlan's is now the Golden Harvest International
Food store. It is run by members of the growing Hmong population on the East
Side.

I visited The Golden Harvest a couple of weeks ago. Not only did I want to see
how much my old neighborhood and workplace had changed, but I also hoped that by
observing immigrants on the East Side in 2002, I could get some idea what my
family went through in 1952.

The only problem with my plan was that most of the Hmong community living on the
East Side are not immigrants at all.

"We came here as refugees, not immigrants!" Jou Lee told me sternly. "Immigrant
means you have a choice, a choice to come to America. We had no choice, we had
to come. That is something you have to know."

Lee and her husband have owned Golden Harvest for almost three years. They both
came to the United States from Laos, via Thailand after the Vietnam War.

"We couldn't stay there [Laos] because we sided with the Americans. We liked
democracy, so we fought the war with American soldiers," she said.

I, an American soldier myself, had no idea. I apologized for my ignorance.

Many people in Laos escaped to Thailand during and after the Vietnam War. They
could not stay in Thailand, so arrangements were made for them to come to the
United States. There was no place else for them to go.

Lee sees this as white Minnesota's biggest misunderstanding of the Hmong
community.

Said Lee: "I want a leader, our governor or mayor, to speak out, ya know? The
concentration of Hmong people is high here and they came here as refugees, not
by choice. And they need to understand that our people fought with the American
soldiers."

Before she arrived in America, Lee believed that she would be accepted and
appreciated by Americans because she and her people supported Americans in the
Vietnam War, and after all they believed in democracy. Unfortunately, this was
not the case.

"It was not easy for us. It was very hard, not being accepted and being bashed
upon and slandered," Lee said. She continued to tell me some of the things that
people had said to her, and some of the names she had been called. None of which
I care to repeat.

"To be discriminated against... it hurts," she said slowly, with sad eyes.

Lee suggested I try and learn more about the Hmong refugees in America, and I
agreed.

I contacted Dr. Yang Dao, assistant director of the multi-language
communications office for St. Paul Public Schools and the first Hmong Ph.D.
candidate in the world, to talk about the difference between immigrants and
refugees. He affirmed everything Jou Lee told me. He added that the Hmong people
aided in the rescue of many American pilots who were shot down during the
Vietnam War. Many Vietnam veterans are alive only because the Hmong people
helped them. Few Americans are aware of this.

"The Hmong community wishes, with the help of the American people, to rebuild
our lives in the United States," he said.

I guess I veered a little bit from my original goal of observing immigrants.

Many children and grandchildren of European immigrants -- the East Siders of the
past -- have moved on to places like Maplewood, Oakdale, White Bear Lake and
Woodbury. And they aren't looking back. If they did, they would see that the
Hmong refugees are doing a fine job filling their shoes.

After my brief immersion into Hmong culture, I would like to suggest that all
East Siders, present and past, get to know a little bit more about their new
Asian neighbors. However, I realize this is not an easy thing to do, so the
process will need to start at home.

We need to find out about our own beginnings in America. Who were the people in
your family who came here first? What did they do? When did they come? Where
were they from? Why, and how, did they struggle? Were they an immigrant or a
refugee?

I have found my stories. I have spent hours in the last year listening to my
grandfather talk about coming to this country. This has been some of the most
valuable and well- spent time of my life. I will undoubtedly pass these stories
onto future generations.

Once we understand our past, the present starts to make a little more sense, and
then we can start to build the future.

Piehowski, 23, of Minneapolis, is one of eight Pioneer Press Community
Columnists for 2002. He is a senior in journalism at the University of
Minnesota. E-mail him at Pieh0013@umn.edu.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 14, 2002 Sunday

Our families' pasts help us understand our new neighbors

BYLINE: JUSTIN PIEHOWSKI Community Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 793 words


This month is the 50th anniversary of my grandparents moving to East Side of St.
Paul from war-torn Poland, via the German work camps, after World War II.

Over the years, two of their daughters and one of their grandsons -- yours truly
--would work at a small supermarket on Maryland Avenue called Knowlan's.

The building that used to be Knowlan's is now the Golden Harvest International
Food store. It is run by members of the growing Hmong population on the East
Side.

I visited The Golden Harvest a couple of weeks ago. Not only did I want to see
how much my old neighborhood and workplace had changed, but I also hoped that by
observing immigrants on the East Side in 2002, I could get some idea what my
family went through in 1952.

The only problem with my plan was that most of the Hmong community living on the
East Side are not immigrants at all.

"We came here as refugees, not immigrants!" Jou Lee told me sternly. "Immigrant
means you have a choice, a choice to come to America. We had no choice, we had
to come. That is something you have to know."

Lee and her husband have owned Golden Harvest for almost three years. They both
came to the United States from Laos, via Thailand after the Vietnam War.

"We couldn't stay there [Laos] because we sided with the Americans. We liked
democracy, so we fought the war with American soldiers," she said.

I, an American soldier myself, had no idea. I apologized for my ignorance.

Many people in Laos escaped to Thailand during and after the Vietnam War. They
could not stay in Thailand, so arrangements were made for them to come to the
United States. There was no place else for them to go.

Lee sees this as white Minnesota's biggest misunderstanding of the Hmong
community.

Said Lee: "I want a leader, our governor or mayor, to speak out, ya know? The
concentration of Hmong people is high here and they came here as refugees, not
by choice. And they need to understand that our people fought with the American
soldiers."

Before she arrived in America, Lee believed that she would be accepted and
appreciated by Americans because she and her people supported Americans in the
Vietnam War, and after all they believed in democracy. Unfortunately, this was
not the case.

"It was not easy for us. It was very hard, not being accepted and being bashed
upon and slandered," Lee said. She continued to tell me some of the things that
people had said to her, and some of the names she had been called. None of which
I care to repeat.

"To be discriminated against... it hurts," she said slowly, with sad eyes.

Lee suggested I try and learn more about the Hmong refugees in America, and I
agreed.

I contacted Dr. Yang Dao, assistant director of the multi-language
communications office for St. Paul Public Schools and the first Hmong Ph.D.
candidate in the world, to talk about the difference between immigrants and
refugees. He affirmed everything Jou Lee told me. He added that the Hmong people
aided in the rescue of many American pilots who were shot down during the
Vietnam War. Many Vietnam veterans are alive only because the Hmong people
helped them. Few Americans are aware of this.

"The Hmong community wishes, with the help of the American people, to rebuild
our lives in the United States," he said.

I guess I veered a little bit from my original goal of observing immigrants.

Many children and grandchildren of European immigrants -- the East Siders of the
past -- have moved on to places like Maplewood, Oakdale, White Bear Lake and
Woodbury. And they aren't looking back. If they did, they would see that the
Hmong refugees are doing a fine job filling their shoes.

After my brief immersion into Hmong culture, I would like to suggest that all
East Siders, present and past, get to know a little bit more about their new
Asian neighbors. However, I realize this is not an easy thing to do, so the
process will need to start at home.

We need to find out about our own beginnings in America. Who were the people in
your family who came here first? What did they do? When did they come? Where
were they from? Why, and how, did they struggle? Were they an immigrant or a
refugee?

I have found my stories. I have spent hours in the last year listening to my
grandfather talk about coming to this country. This has been some of the most
valuable and well- spent time of my life. I will undoubtedly pass these stories
onto future generations.

Once we understand our past, the present starts to make a little more sense, and
then we can start to build the future.

Piehowski, 23, of Minneapolis, is one of eight Pioneer Press Community
Columnists for 2002. He is a senior in journalism at the University of
Minnesota. E-mail him at Pieh0013@umn.edu.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 6, 2002 Monday

DOING GOOD

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 447 words


The Mujeres Hispanas en Acci?n (Hispanic Women in Action) group at Neighborhood
House is releasing a book titled "Buscando un Nuevo Horizonte" ("Searching for a
New Horizon: Immigration Journeys of Hispanic Women").

The book represents the culmination of a six-year project to compile and tell
the stories of women who have immigrated to the United States from Latin
American countries. Donations from the Bush Foundation, COMPAS and The Saint
Paul Foundation made the project possible. The Mujeres Hispanas group wanted to
broaden the public's understanding of immigration and the circumstances
surrounding these difficult journeys, as well as to help Latino immigrants adapt
and succeed in their new life.

Local organizations and schools plan to use the book as a cultural resource. The
women also plan to do presentations, discussions and readings at Humboldt High
School (7 to 9 p.m. today) the Minnesota History Center (1:30, 2:30 and 3:30
p.m. May 25) and the State Convention of Social Workers (June 7). The soft
cover, 100-page bilingual book will be available for purchase. Contact Daisi
Martin at (651) 789-2520 or Dmartin@neighb.org.

The McKnight Foundation invites nominations for the 2002 Virginia McKnight
Binger Awards in Human Service. The Foundation gives 10 awards each year to
Minnesotans who strive to make life better for other people but receive little
or no public recognition or payment in return. Nominations are due by July 15,
and awardees each will receive $7,500 at a ceremony in November. Nomination
forms are now available at www.mcknight.org, or call (612) 333-4220 to have one
mailed.

Nominees should demonstrate exceptional commitment to human services, in areas
such as child care, counseling, employment, family violence, foster care,
housing, neighborhood or community improvement and youth activities. Nominations
are open to the public, but individuals may not nominate themselves.

PEOPLE

For Audria Hartry of Mounds View, volunteering is a full-time job. The Unity
Hospital volunteer was recently honored for 30,000 hours of service. Since
joining the hospital's auxiliary in 1986, she has volunteered an average of
1,875 hours a year.

Open Arms Executive Director Kevin Winge has been awarded a Bush Foundation
Leader Fellowship and will resign from his position in July. He will pursue a
Masters in Public Administration at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard
University beginning in August. He has been with Open Arms since 1997.

The Doing Good column runs as space permits. Announcements can be sent to
arobles@pioneerpress.com or to Annette Robles, Pioneer Press, 345 Cedar St., St.
Paul, MN 55101.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 12, 2002 Sunday

Melding faith and hospitality

BYLINE: CYNTHIA BOYD Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 796 words


Maria Hoa Hoang knows what it's like to be a stranger in a strange land.

"Walking in the street or in school, everyone was looking at me," the Vietnamese
immigrant recalled about her first days on these foreign shores in 1975, days
when she saw her differences mirrored in the looks of those around her.

"My skin color is different. I always have accent in my speaking. I, myself,
when I first came here, needed somebody to understand me," said Hoang, at 46 a
college graduate and American citizen.

Giving immigrants help and understanding is the idea behind The Welcome Center,
a new multicultural Catholic ministry serving the northern region of the Twin
Cities metropolitan area. Hoang, who lives in Vadnais Heights, sits on its
advisory board.

"This is a program to welcome the strangers among us," she said. "It is a bridge
to connect and expand communication between different cultures."

The Welcome Center is one of a growing number of faith-based efforts to connect
with immigrant populations. The faithful from churches and synagogues around the
metropolitan area say they are answering God's call to care for their brothers
and sisters.

Anne Attea, director for Hispanic Ministry for the Archdiocese of St. Paul and
Minneapolis, looks at a growing Latino population in the area and cites an Old
Testament verse: "Do not mistreat foreigners living in your land. Treat them as
you would a fellow countryman. Love them as you would love yourself."

"Our vision is to create multicultural parishes," Attea explained.

Now 17 Catholic parishes in the archdiocese minister to Hispanics, up from eight
parishes just four years ago. The sacraments, social concerns, housing, food,
clothing are all needs, she said.

"Lutherans have been resettling immigrants since World War II," said the Rev.
David Wangaard, who heads up urban and multicultural ministry for the
Minneapolis Area Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America.

"In all who come you see the face of Jesus," Wangaard said, referring to the
book of Matthew and the religious command to serve those in need.

He said Lutherans are working with Ethiopian elders, a Sudanese congregation and
offering English classes to Southeast Asians. A congregation-based program,
Daily Work, offers job skills training and resources to immigrants of all
backgrounds.

"I believe God is sending immigrants to our area in order to nurture our
churches. God has always sent people to bring new life," Wangaard said.

Beth Jacob Congregation in Mendota Heights and other Jewish congregations and
individuals are working with Jewish Community Action and Isaiah to secure rights
for undocumented workers. Among them: the right to obtain a Minnesota driver's
license, said Steven Foldes, chairman of the board of directors of Jewish
Community Action and active with a social action group at Beth Jacob.

Though based at St. Odilia Catholic Community in Shoreview, The Welcome Center
is a collaboration of that Catholic parish and a religious group of priests and
brothers called the Crosier Community, operating with the blessing of the
Catholic Archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis.

The center offers Spanish language Masses on Sundays, immigration support
services including citizenship classes, a Spanish language choir and a growing
and colorful array of ethnic events.

"It can sound like this is an Hispanic ministry. We are broader than that. This
is multicultural," said Father Tom Enneking, center director.

Enneking, a Crosier, said 150 to 200 attend Spanish language Masses weekly, but
he figured 600 to 700 people in all have come to at least one service.

On staff, too, at The Welcome Center is Brother Jim Lewandowski, a certified
immigration specialist; and pastoral assistant Andrea Zamarripa Theisen, a
Latina.

"I feel a sisterhood with them," Zamarripa Theisen said, recalling her childhood
in dual-culture Texas where those of Hispanic background lived parallel lives to
whites. She wants particularly to work with stay-at-home immigrant women,
isolated by their cultural differences and lack of trans- portation.

Lewandowski says immigration issues can be the starting point. Immigrants'
problems "never rest just with those issues," he said. "There are always other
concerns."

The center addresses issues of food, clothing, furniture, transportation, rent
and utility payments, for instance. Though open only since November, the center
has already served people from 32 countries.

And there is hope the ministry will expand and prosper. Says Hoang:

"I think we should have some program to open the gates between different people
so we have a chance to meet and to learn from each other."

Cynthia Boyd can be reached at cboyd@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2116.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 12, 2002 Sunday

Melding faith and hospitality

BYLINE: CYNTHIA BOYD Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 796 words


Maria Hoa Hoang knows what it's like to be a stranger in a strange land.

"Walking in the street or in school, everyone was looking at me," the Vietnamese
immigrant recalled about her first days on these foreign shores in 1975, days
when she saw her differences mirrored in the looks of those around her.

"My skin color is different. I always have accent in my speaking. I, myself,
when I first came here, needed somebody to understand me," said Hoang, at 46 a
college graduate and American citizen.

Giving immigrants help and understanding is the idea behind The Welcome Center,
a new multicultural Catholic ministry serving the northern region of the Twin
Cities metropolitan area. Hoang, who lives in Vadnais Heights, sits on its
advisory board.

"This is a program to welcome the strangers among us," she said. "It is a bridge
to connect and expand communication between different cultures."

The Welcome Center is one of a growing number of faith-based efforts to connect
with immigrant populations. The faithful from churches and synagogues around the
metropolitan area say they are answering God's call to care for their brothers
and sisters.

Anne Attea, director for Hispanic Ministry for the Archdiocese of St. Paul and
Minneapolis, looks at a growing Latino population in the area and cites an Old
Testament verse: "Do not mistreat foreigners living in your land. Treat them as
you would a fellow countryman. Love them as you would love yourself."

"Our vision is to create multicultural parishes," Attea explained.

Now 17 Catholic parishes in the archdiocese minister to Hispanics, up from eight
parishes just four years ago. The sacraments, social concerns, housing, food,
clothing, are all needs, she said.

"Lutherans have been resettling immigrants since World War II," said the Rev.
David Wangaard, who heads up urban and multicultural ministry for the
Minneapolis Area Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America.

"In all who come you see the face of Jesus," Wangaard said, referring to the
book of Matthew and the religious command to serve those in need.

He said Lutherans are working with Ethiopian elders, a Sudanese congregation and
offering English classes to Southeast Asians. A congregation-based program,
Daily Work, offers job skills training and resources to immigrants of all
backgrounds.

"I believe God is sending immigrants to our area in order to nurture our
churches. God has always sent people to bring new life," Wangaard said.

Beth Jacob Congregation in Mendota Heights and other Jewish congregations and
individuals are working with Jewish Community Action and Isaiah to secure rights
for undocumented workers. Among them: the right to obtain a Minnesota driver's
license, said Steven Foldes, chairman of the board of directors of Jewish
Community Action and active with a social action group at Beth Jacob.

Though based at St. Odilia Catholic Community, in Shoreview, The Welcome Center
is a collaboration of that Catholic parish and a religious group of priests and
brothers called the Crosier Community, operating with the blessing of the
Catholic Archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis.

The center offers Spanish language Masses on Sundays, immigration support
services including citizenship classes, a Spanish language choir and a growing
and colorful array of ethnic events.

"It can sound like this is an Hispanic ministry. We are broader than that. This
is multicultural," said Father Tom Enneking, center director.

Enneking, a Crosier, said 150 to 200 attend Spanish language Masses weekly, but
he figured 600 to 700 people in all have come to at least one service.

On staff, too, at The Welcome Center is Brother Jim Lewandowski, a certified
immigration specialist; and pastoral assistant Andrea Zamarripa Theisen, a
Latina.

"I feel a sisterhood with them," Zamarripa Theisen said, recalling her childhood
in dual-culture Texas where those of Hispanic background lived parallel lives to
whites. She wants particularly to work with stay-at-home immigrant women,
isolated by their cultural differences and lack of transportation.

Lewandowski says immigration issues can be the starting point. Immigrants'
problems "never rest just with those issues," he said. "There are always other
concerns."

The center addresses issues of food, clothing, furniture, transportation, rent
and utility payments, for instance. Though open only since November, the center
has already served people from 32 countries.

And there is hope the ministry will expand and prosper. Says Hoang:

"I think we should have some program to open the gates between different people
so we have a chance to meet and to learn from each other."

Cynthia Boyd can be reached at cboyd@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2116.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 19, 2002 Sunday

Nation must do a better job of training future citizens

BYLINE: LUIS LUGO Commentator

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 540 words


Few tears will be shed at the funeral for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The House of Representatives voted last month to abolish the INS and replace it
with separate bureaus charged with protecting our borders and providing services
to immigrants under a newly created Agency for Immigration Affairs.

But the INS has a third critical mission that largely has been ignored: to
promote instruction and training in citizenship. This includes helping impart
basic English language skills and understanding of our history and democratic
principles.

This oversight becomes all the more critical in light of the unprecedented
number of immigrants who have flocked to our shores over the past 30 years.
According to the 2000 census, the foreign-born population stands at 28.4
million, or 10 percent of the total U.S. population. That's the highest number
ever and the highest proportion since 1930, the end of the previous great wave
of immigration.

Moreover, also during the past 30 years, the proportion of naturalized citizens
in the foreign-born population plummeted from nearly two-thirds to barely more
than one-third. The result is that today, nearly 18 million of the foreign-born
are not citizens. The backlog of citizenship applications to the INS now numbers
in the millions, despite the commendable efforts of charitable organizations,
many of them religiously affiliated, to assist with the naturalization process.

There are several reasons for this lower rate of naturalization, but one of the
most obvious and most easily addressed is government inattention to the
essential task of integrating immigrants into our common civic life. This is not
simply a matter of providing client-friendly services, essential though that is,
but of preparing immigrants to become fellow citizens.

The U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform in 1997 gave Congress its final
report, titled "Becoming an American." The report strongly encouraged the
revival of instruction for all immigrants on "the common civic culture that is
essential to citizenship," including the English language, which the commission
correctly identified as the most basic skill for successful integration into
American society and civic life.

Fortunately, the bill the House passed last month was amended to include
establishment of an Office of Citizenship, the basic mission of which would be
to promote instruction and training. We would be well served if the Senate, when
it takes up an INS reform bill this month, includes such a provision. Better
yet, the Senate should consider elevating this office into a third bureau within
the new Agency for Immigration Affairs. This could serve to underscore the
seriousness with which we view this matter of becoming a U.S. citizen and to
help ensure that it receives adequate funding to carry out its core educational
mission.

As a nation of immigrants, we need to take seriously our responsibility of
training future citizens to fully assume the rights and duties that belong to
all Americans.

Lugo, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Cuba, is director of the religion
program at the Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia. Distributed by the Los
Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 23, 2002 Thursday

Sept. 11 hijackers did little to alert authorities, study finds

BYLINE: JONATHAN PETERSON Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 440 words


WASHINGTON -- The Sept. 11 hijackers departed from the pattern of earlier
terrorists by initially entering the country legally and breaking comparatively
few laws before the attacks, according to an analysis released Wednesday.

While Islamic terrorist schemes in the 1990s involved permanent U.S. residents
and naturalized citizens, the Sept. 11 hijackers were foreigners who prepared
for their attack while exploiting their short-term immigration status, reported
the Center on Immigration Studies, a group that seeks to restrict immigration.

The Sept. 11 hijackers "are different in that they don't seem to have violated
the law as much as some terrorists in the past," said Steven Camarota, the
center's research director and the report's author. The brief U.S. stays and
general lack of actions that would have alerted law enforcement "may represent a
kind of growing sophistication on the part of al-Qaida," he added.

At the same time, all the attacks by Islamic terrorists in recent years
underscored specific, gaping holes in the nation's border security, including
abuse of amnesty provisions and petitions for political asylum, according to the
report.

The report examined the cases of 48 Islamic terrorists who were involved in
plots to kill employees outside CIA headquarters, attack the World Trade Center
in 1993 and bomb Los Angeles International Airport, the Brooklyn subways and New
York City landmarks.

Among the findings:

Of the 48 terrorists, 17 enjoyed status as lawful, permanent U.S. residents or
naturalized U.S. citizens. This group included three of those who plotted to
bomb the World Trade Center in 1993 and 10 who sought to destroy famous
landmarks in New York.

"The first thing I found surprising when I did the research was the large number
of lawful permanent residents and naturalized citizens involved in terrorism,"
Camarota said. "I thought it was mostly illegals -- asylum applicants, people
who had abused the system or temporary visa holders."

One-fourth of the 48 terrorists were illegal immigrants at the time of their
crimes. Others engaged in sham marriages to remain in this country.

Terrorists also violated immigration law by lying on their applications for
permanent residence.

"The public record is unambiguous that at least 21 of these guys had some
significant violations of immigration law prior to engaging in terrorism,"
Camarota said.

Of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers, most entered the United States legally with
tourist visas issued by U.S. consular officials in Saudi Arabia, typically aided
by a "visa express" program that streamlined the entire process.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 27, 2002 Monday
                              Correction Appended

FYI

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 738 words


As a 6-year-old migrant farm worker, Maria Quiroja got to know states not by
their capitals, but by their yields.

Oklahoma and Texas had cotton; Illinois had tomatoes and onions; North Dakota,
sugar beets; and Michigan, cherries.

She also got a few early lessons in intolerance and bigotry.

There were the taunts of "donkeys!" and worse from child and adult passers-by.
The signs "We don't serve blacks or Mexicans" explained why her parents and
family members rarely ventured inside town shops or eateries. And there was the
general fear of immigration agents, even though the young girl and her family
were third-generation U.S. citizens from south Texas.

Still, the small, callused, blistering hands of the now 54-year-old St. Paul of
mother of four couldn't wait after sunset to grab "Run, Spot, Run" and the other
books that depicted a childhood and a world vastly different from the fields of
sweat.

"I struggled with the language, but I loved to look through them," Quiroja
recalled last week.

Decades later, those same hands would hold an undergraduate degree from Hamline
University, and this year a prestigious award from the local Women of Color
organization for her "outstanding work" with immigrants and undocumented workers
in the Twin Cities.

The term "ordinary folks" took on a new meaning after Sept. 11. There's always
been nobility, courage and extraordinary achievements and qualities in people we
pass on the streets daily. Some of us needed a tragedy close to home to remind
us. Quiroja is one of those folks.

Quiroja works three jobs: an education assistant at the Frogtown Family Resource
Alliance; an emergency switchboard operator for the American Red Cross; and an
outreach specialist for Civil Society, a nonprofit legal advice firm in St.
Paul.

Now, she's adding a fourth. As an intern with the newly formed Immigrant and
Refugee Safety Alliance, Quiroja will work with women and families affected by
crime. A weekly walk-in legal clinic has been established at the Thomas-Dale
Block Club to help such families.

"Many women come from countries where there's mistrust of the police or
authorities," explains Linda Miller, Civil Society's executive director. "It is
also common that they also fear deportation or making matters worse at home by
reporting crime. Gloria already brings the experience and skills needed to gain
the trust of these people."

The underreporting of such crimes was brought to light for Quiroja a few months
ago when she paid a home visit to a family as part of her Frogtown job duties.

Inside the home was a 4-year-old girl whose mood swings ranged from swiping
papers off a table in anger to begging Quiroja to take her with her. After
gaining the child's confidence, Quiroja learned that a live-in uncle was
sexually abusing the girl.

"The mother knew about the abuse, but she was afraid because the uncle
threatened to have the family deported back to Mexico if they told," she said.
Police were notified and the child was later removed from the home.

The seventh oldest of 18 children, Quiroja rebelled against the prevailing
belief that her family's destiny centered on migrant farming. She earned a GED
degree at 37 and got a part-time job as a migrant summer school teacher's aide
after moving to Grand Forks, N.D. She persuaded her husband to leave migrant
farming. Both enrolled at a community college in Thief River Falls, Minn., and
he took up auto mechanic courses. She took up legal assistant classes, earning
an associate arts degree and becoming the first person in her family to attend
college.

Next stop was Hamline, where she graduated with a degree in paralegal studies.
Raising four children and juggling jobs and a husband have postponed her dream
of pursuing a law degree.

"My husband, who was also a migrant worker, told me that we couldn't make the
change because we belonged in the fields," she told a women's studies class of
students at Central High School in St. Paul whose teacher had invited Quiroja to
share her story.

"I told him, 'Who says we only belong in the fields?' " Quiroja added. "Don't
waste your education. It is power. And always try to help other people. You have
to give of yourself to receive."

FYI

For more information about the Immigrant and Refugee Safety Alliance, call (651)
848-2011 or (651) 291-0713.

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 28, 2002 Tuesday

CORRECTION: Gloria Quiroja's first name was incorrect in a profile published
Monday.

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 5, 2002 Wednesday

Immigrants making homes in Twin Cities suburbs

BYLINE: LARRY MILLETT Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 627 words


The expanding mosaic of immigration in Minnesota offers some intriguing new
patterns, according to 2000 census data released this week, most notably that
while immigrants continue to concentrate in the Twin Cities, they are branching
out and locating in ever larger numbers in the suburbs.

Overall, foreign-born residents now account for 5.3 percent of Minnesota's
population, double the percentage in 1990. The 260,000 immigrants include
105,000 Asians, 63,000 Latinos, 44,000 Europeans and 34,000 Africans.

That percentage is still well behind the national rate of 11.1 percent, which is
the highest since 1930. During the era of heavy European migration between 1860
and 1920, the percentage of foreign-born residents in the United States ranged
between 13 and 15 percent.

Brooklyn Park and Brooklyn Center, adjoining suburbs located just north of
Minneapolis, form a dramatic case in point of the move to the suburbs in
Minnesota.

In both cities, the number of foreign-born residents more than quadrupled
between 1990 and 2000. The rise in the number of African-born residents was
especially dramatic. Brooklyn Park, for example, counted just 133 people of
African birth in 1990. By 2000, that number was 2,890. All told, Brooklyn Park
counted nearly 9,000 foreign-born residents among its 67,000 people.

At least two African food stores, as well as restaurants and nightclubs catering
to the African community, can now be found amid the strip malls that dot
Brooklyn Park. Brooklyn Center also has a new African grocery.

Many other suburbs -- ranging from Eden Prairie and Plymouth on the west to
Eagan and Woodbury on the east -- reported large gains in the number of
foreign-born residents. In Woodbury, for example, the number rose from 770 to
over 3,000, with Asian immigrants accounting for the bulk of the increase.

The influx of African immigrants to the suburbs, where Asians and Latinos have
also established a strong presence, appears to follow the classic American
pattern of looking for a better life away from the city.

Faysal Omar, executive director of the Somali American Friendship Association in
Minneapolis, said Somalis and other Africans, including many from Liberia, are
moving to the suburbs to find jobs, affordable housing, good schools and safe
streets.

"A lot of people are finding it's easier to buy a house in the suburbs," Omar
noted.

Osman Sahardeed, assistant executive director of the Somali Community of
Minnesota, said most of the Somalis in Brooklyn Park and Brooklyn Center have
come from Minneapolis, which remains the heart of Minnesota's Somali community,
by far the largest in the United States.

Sahardeed said Somalis have generally been well received in the suburbs. "It's
been much better than in some of the smaller communities in rural Minnesota," he
said.

Jason Aarsvold, economic and development project facilitator for Brooklyn Park,
said the city has planned for the influx of immigrants and expects the number
will continue to grow because the city offers "good jobs and affordable
housing."

Despite the movement of immigrants to the suburbs, St. Paul and Minneapolis
continue to be home to nearly four in 10 of all the foreign-born residents of
Minnesota. Minneapolis has more than 55,000 foreign-born residents, with
Latinos, Asians and Africans forming the largest groups. In St. Paul, which has
41,000 foreign-born residents, Asians remain by far the dominant group,
accounting for more than half the total number.

A number of communities in greater Minnesota also have substantial immigrant
populations, drawn in most cases by jobs at food-processing plants or other
large employers.

Larry Millett can be reached at lmillett@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5447.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 6, 2002 Thursday

Risky immigrants may have to register

BYLINE: TED BRIDIS Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 268 words


WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department announced anti-terrorism changes Wednesday
to require roughly 100,000 new visitors each year to provide fingerprints,
photographs and details about their plans in the United States.

The government said it would keep secret most its new criteria for identifying
risky immigrants.

The rules, expected to take effect this fall, also will affect fewer than
100,000 foreigners already in the United States. Those foreigners will be
instructed to report to the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
registration, fingerprints and photographs and to visit immigration offices
every 12 months until they leave.

Attorney General John Ashcroft declined to disclose the criteria the government
will use to identify which of the 35 million foreign visitors who enter each
year might be deemed threatening.

He did say nearly all visitors from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan and Syria -- except
some diplomats -- will face the new scrutiny.

Visitors from other countries, especially Muslim and Middle Eastern nations,
could be identified as potential threats depending on other factors, such as age
or gender and whether they remain in the United States longer than 30 days.

Some visitors will be told they were deemed potential threats before traveling
to the United States, Justice officials said, speaking on the condition of
anonymity.

The new rules, called the "National Entry-Exit Registration System," will
compare visitors' fingerprints with those of suspected terrorists.

"We will be able to stop terrorists from entering the country," Ashcroft said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 6, 2002 Thursday

MINNESOTA: Driver's licenses, visas may expire together

BYLINE: RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 426 words


By the end of this summer, temporary immigrants may start getting Minnesota
driver's licenses that expire at the same time as their visas.

Public Safety Commissioner Charlie Weaver requested a judge's permission this
week to make that change without going through the usual rule-making process.

The request to an administrative law judge comes as no great surprise. Weaver
and members of the Republican-controlled House tried to get the Legislature to
require matching expiration dates as part of an anti-terrorism bill during the
session that ended last month.

That effort failed due to objections by members of the Senate -- which is
controlled by the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party -- immigrant groups and some of
the state's largest businesses. But Weaver said at the time that he would change
immigrants' licenses through an administrative process, without the
Legislature's help.

"We are proposing to do exactly what we said were going to do," said Weaver.

Under the measure Weaver has proposed, nonresident visa holders would get
licenses with expiration dates linked to the expiration of their temporary
visas. The fee for the licenses would be reduced, and there would be a six-month
grace period to renew the licenses. The expiration date would be listed on the
front of the license.

The plan does not include a controversial proposal to color-code visa-holders
licenses, which Weaver also backed during the legislative session.

Immigrant groups said changing the look of immigrants' licenses would make them
targets of harassment, and Weaver said he has heeded those concerns.

Weaver expects the administrative law judge's ruling in about two weeks. If his
request is approved, that would allow the Minnesota Department of Driver and
Vehicle Services to implement the new regulations almost immediately.

Speed is necessary, Weaver said, to immediately protect Minnesotans from the
future terrorist attacks Bush administration officials have said may be coming.

Critics said Weaver is purposely avoiding the public input process.

"This going through the back door. He is using the excuse of vague and unclear
terrorist threats to circumvent the will of the Legislature and to deny the
public the ability to comment on his rules," said Steven Foldes, chair of board
of the St. Paul-based Jewish Community Action.

Sen. Jane Ranum, DFL-Minneapolis, one of the key negotiators of the
Legislature's anti-terrorism bill, said she was shocked by Weaver's request for
a confidential review from the administrative law judge.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 13, 2002 Thursday

IMMIGRATION;
HEALTH: Newcomers drive health-care costs

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 718 words


Ramsey and Hennepin counties are among those nationally that face rising health
care costs, attributed in part to serving growing numbers of immigrants, as
federal payments for those services are shrinking, according to a report
released Wednesday.

Without congressional action, counties may have to raise property taxes or close
public hospitals, officials from the National Association of Counties said at a
news conference in Washington. In a survey the association conducted last month,
37 of the 43 counties that responded had seen an increase in uncompensated
health care expenses over the last five years. Two-thirds of those counties
cited an increase in immigration as a factor.

Among local officials discussing the burdens their communities face because of
growing uncompensated health care costs were commissioners Susan Haigh of Ramsey
County, Peter McLaughlin of Hennepin County and Patrice Bataglia of Dakota
County. In Hennepin County, officials estimate $16 million is being spent on
uncompensated health care for immigrants.

"In many states, including Minnesota, counties are ultimately responsible for
providing health care to the tremendous influx of immigrants and refugees, said
McLaughlin, a member of the association's Uncompensated Care/Immigration Health
Care Task Force. "The irony of this whole dilemma is that the federal government
requires counties to provide health care but has with the same hand withdrawn
many sources of federal reimbursement that enabled us to pay for the costs."

Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., also appeared at the news
conference to seek support for their proposed Federal Responsibility for
Immigrant Health Act.

Federal law requires county hospitals to provide emergency care regardless of a
person's citizenship, legal status or ability to pay. Because uninsured
immigrants have nowhere else to go, they often seek care at county hospital
emergency rooms, where treatment is the most costly and the expense falls on the
counties.

For now, the proposed legislation applies to states with larger immigrant
populations such as California and Texas but future bills could address states
such as Minnesota, which had among the fastest-growing immigrant populations in
the 1990s an influx of Asian, Latino and African newcomers.

At the same time, McLaughlin said, federal balanced-budget and welfare-reform
laws have cut federal payments to hospitals and medical assistance to
immigrants. "The federal government's support for these health care costs has
been eroding and may erode even further," he said. "While they appear to be
reducing costs, they're just shifting the burden and the counties and their
property taxpayers are required to pick up the ball."

The cost of providing such care to uninsured Ramsey County residents has
averaged $6.5 million a year over the last three years at Regions Hospital in
St. Paul, said Rob Fulton, director of the Saint Paul/Ramsey County Department
of Public Health. The total cost of the care at Regions, which the county owns
and leases to Health Partners, is greater because the hospital also serves
patients from other Minnesota counties including Dakota, Washington and Chisago,
as well as St. Croix County, Wis.

Ramsey County does not have data on the share of newcomers who account for
uninsured health care costs, but immigrants and refugees are likely to lack
insurance for a variety of reasons, Fulton said. For example, some East African
refugees who initially have health coverage work two or three jobs to save money
to bring family members here. The jobs, such as driving a cab or working behind
a retail counter, don't provide insurance and the immigrants end up making too
much money to qualify for public programs.

In Hennepin County, the tab for uncompensated care was more than $50 million in
2000, with immigrants and refugees accounting for at least one-third of the
total, said Jamie Halpern, of the Hennepin County Center for Health Policy and
Community Service Integration. About $35 million of the uncompensated care took
place at Hennepin County Medical Center, with the rest at clinics providing
public health, mental health and other services.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 17, 2002 Monday

States slow to tighten changes to driver's license rules

BYLINE: PATRICK HOWE Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 696 words


State officials around the country adopted a similar line of reasoning after
Sept. 11: If most of the terrorists got on planes by flashing driver's licenses,
maybe those licenses were too easy to get.

At least 30 states proposed changes, ranging from stricter penalties for
creating fake IDs to making the licenses of noncitizens expire when their legal
stay ends.

Ten months later, though, few of the plans have become law. At least seven
states have revised their policies in some form, with New Jersey, Florida and
Virginia -- where terrorists obtained licenses -- leading the way.

But many other proposals died because they were seen as hostile to immigrants.

"The further we get from Sept. 11, the more complacent we tend to get," said
Minnesota's public safety commissioner, Charlie Weaver, who blamed the recent
death of a state plan in part on opposition from immigrant groups.

When an anti-terrorism plan was first proposed in Minnesota in November,
changing the driver's license system was considered the bedrock reform upon
which others would be built.

Licenses for noncitizens would expire at the same time as their visas, and their
licenses were to be marked with a colored stripe to make them easier for police
to spot.

It was the last provision that offended civil liberties groups and immigrants.
They argued that the color code could invite discrimination. The
Democratic-controlled Senate opposed the Republican-led House on the issue, and
the bill died in the Legislature's closing hours.

"It is a connotation that you're not here permanently, that you don't belong
here," said Ytmar Santiago, executive director of Chicano/Latino Affairs Council
in St. Paul. "While a police officer might understand, Joe the landlord or Sally
the cashier might not. They might say, 'I'm not going to rent you a place, or
cash your check. You don't belong here.' "

Such concerns did not stop other states.

Kentucky requires most noncitizens to go to a Transportation Cabinet office to
obtain or renew licenses.

The measure, implemented on an emergency basis in November and slated to become
law next month, is being challenged by the Catholic Conference of Kentucky,
which wants the U.S. government to investigate whether the practice illegally
discriminates against immigrants by making some travel long distances when
citizens can go to their local county clerk's office.

"The premise is nonsense," said the Rev. Pat Delahanty, a policy analyst with
the conference. "Timothy McVeigh stands as proof opposite that noncitizens are
the people we need to fear the most on terrorism."

Florida and Louisiana have enacted laws that make driver's licenses expire with
immigration permits, according to the American Association of Motor Vehicle
Administrators. Connecticut did the same thing through a rule change.

Virginia and Colorado require stricter proof of residency to obtain a license.
And New Jersey passed a bill, on hold for now, to convert to licenses with
digitized photographs and signatures to make them harder to forge.

Even where laws were not changed, many states' practices were. In Arizona, a
review led to new training for all motor-vehicle employees in what documents can
be used to prove residency, said Cydney DeModica, spokeswoman for the state
motor vehicle division.

Many immigrants say tougher scrutiny has made it more difficult to get licenses
even with the proper identification. In the Midwest, one result has been a surge
in requests for ID cards from the Mexican consulate's office in Chicago.

Another trend is that efforts to loosen driver's license requirements for
illegal immigrants lost momentum after the attacks. Most of the 15 states that
had been considering such measures defeated the plans, according to the National
Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles.

The hodgepodge of state policies regarding driver's licenses is proof that a
national approach is needed, said Jason King of the Motor Vehicle
Administrators. He said states should follow similar standards and be able to
check each other's information online.

Congress is considering bills that would develop such a national approach.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 23, 2002 Sunday

MINNESOTA: Plane carries unhappy and unwilling travelers

BYLINE: HANNAH ALLAM Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1217 words


Maria stepped off the plane and into the Southwestern heat. Some U.S.
immigration agents overheard her flawless English and shook their heads.

"You'll be back by tomorrow," one predicted with a short laugh.

Maria simply smiled and shrugged as she waited for her handcuffs to be removed.
Then she rubbed her wrists, grabbed her duffel bag and started across the Rio
Grande on a bridge that begins in Texas and ends in Mexico.

Maria -- a 25-year-old permanent U.S. resident who was deported last summer
because of a 7-year-old felony drug conviction -- had consulted an attorney and
called her family, but neither could prevent her from ending up on a
Mexico-bound plane one day after her arrest. (The Pioneer Press is not using her
full name at her request because she fears being deported again.)

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials say they are scrupulous
about ensuring legal access for detainees, giving them lists of free legal
services and providing phones in holding cells. But advocates and attorneys
rattle off dozens of stories about illegal immigrants allegedly kept
incommunicado until they are on a government plane that leaves a Minnesota
landing strip every Wednesday for a one-way flight to the Mexican border. So
far, more than 500 Mexicans have been deported from Minnesota this year at a
cost of about $550 a person.

In Maria's case, the money and effort were wasted. The day after she crossed the
bridge in Laredo, Texas, she easily sneaked across the border and was soon on
her way back to the comfort of her family's two-story home in South St. Paul.

PATH TO DEPORTATION

Two kinds of people are subject to deportation: those who enter the United
States illegally and get caught, and those who enter legally and commit a crime.

About 80 percent of the deportees since the weekly flights started in 1998 have
been convicted of a crime. Another 15 percent were referred from other parts of
the justice system, Counts said. The rest, the noncriminal illegal immigrants,
were probably discovered by chance.

Although the right to court-appointed attorneys doesn't extend to noncitizens,
Mexico-bound detainees are informed of their legal options through a
Spanish-language video produced by the Mexican consulate. Holding cells are
equipped with phones to make collect calls to lawyers and family members.

"Everyone who comes in our custody has full access to due process," INS
spokesman Tim Counts said. "We're scrupulous about that."

After arrest, detainees are booked into the INS district office in Bloomington.
Their pockets are emptied of pens, knives, money and other items, but many have
used rubber soles and wedding bands to etch crude remarks or gang signs onto the
walls of the foul-smelling cells. Some simply write their country of origin:
Canada, Somalia, Jordan, Honduras and, of course, Mexico.

Mexicans make up the bulk of deportees from the Minnesota office, partly because
it's fairly quick and easy to get them home, and partly because there are simply
more Mexicans apprehended than any other nationality, Counts said. Last year,
for example, the Minnesota office deported 984 people from 72 countries. About
76 percent -- 755 deportees -- were Mexican nationals, according to INS figures.

It's not improbable for people who are in severe violation of immigration laws
to be picked up on Tuesday and gone on the Wednesday plane rides, although the
INS insists such detainees are still able to contact attorneys. But legal rights
dwindle for people who have been formerly removed and continue slipping into the
country, only to be arrested a third, fourth or fifth time. When caught, Counts
said, these repeat offenders "don't get nothin' but a ride home."

LEGAL CONCERNS

The Wednesday trip to Mexico takes about three hours in a commercial-style plane
staffed by the U.S. Marshals Service. A typical flight includes 25 to 40
detainees from Minnesota, restrained by manacles on their waists, wrists and
ankles. Each person is allowed a single carry-on bag, which is checked for
razors, drugs and other contraband.

"With a plane full of convicted criminals, we're concerned about safety," Counts
said.

For security reasons, the INS won't disclose the flight's exact departure time
or place, but prisoners usually arrive in Texas border towns such as Laredo or
El Paso by midafternoon. Once on the ground, the detainees are freed from their
shackles and nudged across the border.

Immigration attorneys, advocates and former detainees described several cases in
which people were arrested and on the INS flight within a day or two -- without
ever reaching an attorney or relative. Many times, they said, family members
grew sick with worry about missing loved ones until they called from south of
the border.

The Rev. Dennis Dempsey, who leads a weekly Spanish-language Mass in St. Paul,
said the INS has a positive reputation for cooperation on cases.

Still, he said, Mexican worshippers at his church tell him stories about agents
arresting loved ones without giving word to the families, many of whom rely on
the detainee for food and housing.

Dempsey knows one man arrested last fall. Days passed without a phone call to
his wife and children, and the pastor received varying answers about where he
was being held. Then came a Thursday call from Mexico -- the man had ended up on
the Wednesday flight.

"It was suspicious," Dempsey said. "He was just gone. He had been flown down and
crossed the border, and there were no phone calls to his family."

Counts said it's up to detainees to contact relatives. The phones are available,
he said.

Volunteer attorneys -- part of a program organized by nonprofit legal help
groups -- now show up at twice-weekly INS hearings to ensure that every detainee
who stands before a judge has a lawyer. Still, attorneys said, hundreds of other
detainees either don't know their legal options or are pressured by the INS to
succumb to deportation without consulting a lawyer.

"The danger with summarily deporting people is that there are people with
problems in their cases that should be resolved by a judge, and they never are,"
said Jorge Saavedra, chief legal officer of the Centro Legal in St. Paul. "There
are people falling through the cracks here. They never get to go before a judge
and assert their rights, and there's something wrong with that."

But even legal savvy and excellent English skills couldn't buy time for Maria,
the deportee now back in Minnesota. Before her removal, Maria, who has been here
since she was 3, said she worked and enjoyed the benefits of a green card. Now
seven months pregnant and unable to work or drive because the INS confiscated
all her personal identification, Maria spends her days helping her mother cook
and clean or watching telenovelas on a Spanish-language cable channel.

Some days, she said, her lack of tangible identification makes her feel
invisible or nonexistent. But to her, the loss of identity is a small price to
pay to be able to live in the same house as her parents, husband and young son.

"I'd do anything for my family," Maria said. "If it means I have to be here
running, hiding, whatever. My family is worth it."

Hannah Allam can be reached at hallam@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 25, 2002 Tuesday

THE WAR ON TERRORISM: Public Safety will change immigrants' licenses

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 457 words


Public Safety Commissioner Charlie Weaver expects to move ahead quickly with
changes to immigrants' driver's licenses following an administrative law judge's
ruling.

Chief Judge Kenneth Nickolai's ruling Friday appears to give Weaver permission
to note on Minnesota licenses when an immigrant's visa will expire.

Weaver on Monday praised the ruling as a significant step against the threat of
terrorism, and said he intends to implement it in about two weeks.

"From a public safety standpoint, that is most important -- that cops can see
when a visa expired," Weaver said.

Weaver has been seeking tighter requirements for licenses issued to foreigners,
but the Legislature failed to approve the change.

Under current law, driver's licenses are good for four years, even though an
immigrant's visa might expire within days.

Weaver also wanted to deny licenses to foreigners who apply with fewer than 60
days remaining on their visas, disallow use of a driver's license from another
state as proof of identity, and require a photograph on a driver's license by
eliminating the current exception exercised for religious reasons by some
applicants.

When the 2002 Legislature rebuffed his efforts, Weaver, citing a national
security threat, tried to adopt administrative rules that accomplished the same
things.

Administrative Law Judge George Beck ruled against Weaver, stating that there
was no compelling threat of terrorism to justify speeding the rule changes into
effect.

The department appealed Beck's ruling to the chief judge and provided him with
additional information about threats to public safety.

Nickolai said the additional information shows hundreds of applicants for
driver's licenses have visas that are due to expire within days, even though
their driver's licenses are good for as long as four years.

"While the department presented no evidence that any of those applicants are
linked to a 'serious and immediate threat,' it did present facts showing that,
on a nationwide basis, non-U.S. citizens are seeking to obtain forms of
legitimate identification documents as a part of their plan to conduct terrorist
operations within the country," said Nickolai.

Weaver said Nickolai's six-page ruling points out that the public safety
commissioner already has authority to note the visa expiration dates on
licenses.

Weaver said the commissioner also has authority to cancel the driver's licenses
of visas holders, after giving proper notice when the visas expire. He said he
plans to use that authority.

Nickolai's ruling also authorizes the department to require photographs of all
driver's license applicants and lets the department demand additional proof of
identification from applicants.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 27, 2002 Thursday

UW-MADISON: Computerized system to track foreign students

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 198 words


MADISON, Wis. -- University of Wisconsin-Madison officials say they plan to use
a computerized system to track the school's foreign students.

The Student and Exchange Visitor Information System has been in paper form since
1952.

Sheila Spear, director of international student services at UW-Madison, said the
federal government will pay to set up the system but UW employees will have to
track the students.

The new system will be faster, but will require more vigilance, Spear said.

"It's going to mean paying attention to incredibly minuscule details of their
lives or risk losing their status in the United States," Spear said.

Those details include changes in address and academic major, Spear said.

"The sense of immigration surveillance and intrusion is going to be heightened,"
Spear said.

"I'm no big fan of the whole plan since it was conceived 50 years ago, but I
have no problem, basically, with making it work. If we could speed up the
process of information going to and from the INS (U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service), there are many benefits for students."

Students will be able to get their paperwork in order more quickly, she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 6, 2002 Saturday

Some immigrants' status noted on licenses beginning Monday

BYLINE: RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 924 words


The line on a typical day at the driver's license station on University Avenue
in St. Paul is a pretty good reflection of Minnesota's new drivers.

Someone who needs to take the test in Spanish stands near a new immigrant from
Cambodia, an African-born woman wearing traditional garb waits in the crowded
station next to someone who could be a Wisconsinite trading in his Badger state
license.

Starting Monday, people like these -- citizens and immigrants alike -- will have
to jump through at least one more hoop to get their licenses, and some
immigrants will get cards that distinguish them from citizens.

An out-of-state driver's license will no longer be enough for new Minnesotans to
prove their identity. Everyone will have to show another government-issued
document, such as a passport or a birth certificate, and prove that they are
allowed to be in the United States.

"What we need to see is at least two forms of identification," said Brian Lamb,
director of the vehicle services division of the Public Safety Department.
Minnesota drivers renewing their licenses won't be affected.

For temporary immigrants, clerks at driver's license counters will use the
documentation to create special licenses that bear the date by which the
immigrant is supposed to leave the country, and the words "status check" will
appear on the front and back of the license.

People who were born elsewhere but have permanent legal residence in the country
would not have any special designation on their licenses.

Temporary immigrants will still get licenses valid for four years. But about 60
days before their legal stay is up, they will get a letter saying they must talk
to state driver's officials or their license will be canceled once their legal
stay has expired.

People with permission from the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service
to stay longer, or those who have applied for that permission, can have their
licenses extended.

If law enforcement officials see someone with an expired "status check" date,
they could and would call the INS, said Public Safety Commissioner Charlie
Weaver. That will make the state safer, he said.

"What we need to do to fight terrorism is a coordinated system. We all need to
work together," Weaver said.

Minnesota lawmakers considered similar driver's license measures this year and
rejected them. Senate Democrats, who were opposed to specifying immigrant status
on driver's licenses, and House Republicans, who backed the idea, could not
agree. Weaver sought and received an administrative law judge's permission to
change the rules without legislative action.

House members and Weaver said making driver's licenses provisions tougher and
giving police officers the tip that they might be dealing with someone who is in
the country illegally would help keep the country safe.

Senate members and immigrant groups said the driver's license measures would
have little impact on terrorism and would only make immigrants targets of
harassment. Some of the state's biggest employers, including Cargill, the Mayo
Clinic and the University of Minnesota, also objected to the provisions.

A majority of state legislatures that considered creating tougher driver's
license provisions for immigrants rejected the proposals, said Tyler Moran of
the National Immigration Law Center. She said there was a feeling that changing
driver's licenses would offer a false security blanket, and "real security takes
real hard work."

Still, at least seven states have linked the expiration of driver's licenses to
the expiration date of visas in some way, according to Thomas E. Wolfsohn of the
American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators.

Driver and Vehicle Services officials do not have a good idea how many people
will have "status check" on their license once the new policy goes into effect.

The department's best estimate of the number of applicants affected by all the
new rules, including U.S. citizens who have licenses from other states and want
a Minnesota license, range between 40,000 and 80,000 a year.

As of January, 3.58 million people had Minnesota driver's licenses.

Driver's license clerks will not ask for special documentation from people they
suspect to be immigrants. But the documentation that immigrants would have to
present to get a driver's license, such as a non-U.S. passport, would include
the legal dates they are allowed to be in the United States. Clerks would note
that date in a computer database and on the license itself.

"These are the same forms that we have always seen. We have dealt with these
forms for many, many years," said Kris Ulbrich, an assistant regional supervisor
at the North Metro exam station. Ulbrich has worked in the state's vehicle
services department for more than three decades.

The new provisions are not without critics and a possible legal challenge.

"I think they are ridiculous and specifically anti-immigrant without adding
anything to public safety," said Jim Kielkopf, a member of the immigration
committee of Isaiah, a group representing more than 80 congregations in the
metro area and St. Cloud.

Weaver said the "status check" indication on a license is inoffensive and
"Minnesotans will be safer because of it."

TO LEARN MORE

Starting Monday, the Public Safety Department will offer a special phone line --
(651) 297-3378 -- and Web site --www.mndriveinfo.org -- to answer questions
about the new policy.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 7, 2002 Sunday

New rules for driver's licenses will begin

BYLINE: RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 577 words


The line on a typical day at the driver's license station on University Avenue
in St. Paul is a pretty good reflection of Minnesota's new drivers.

Someone who needs to take the test in Spanish stands near a new immigrant from
Cambodia, an African-born woman wearing traditional garb waits in the crowded
station next to someone who could be a Wisconsinite trading in his Badger state
license.

Starting Monday, people like these -- citizens and immigrants alike -- will have
to jump through at least one more hoop to get their licenses, and some
immigrants will get cards that distinguish them from citizens.

An out-of-state driver's license will no longer be enough for new Minnesotans to
prove their identity. Everyone will have to show another government-issued
document, such as a passport or a birth certificate, and prove that they are
allowed to be in the United States.

"What we need to see is at least two forms of identification," said Brian Lamb,
director of the vehicle services division of the Public Safety Department.
Minnesota drivers renewing their licenses won't be affected.

For temporary immigrants, clerks at driver's license counters will use the
documentation to create special licenses that bear the date by which the
immigrant is supposed to leave the country, and the words "status check" will
appear on the front and back of the license.

People who were born elsewhere but have permanent legal residence in the country
would not have any special designation on their licenses.

Temporary immigrants will still get licenses valid for four years. But about 60
days before their legal stay is up, they will get a letter saying they must talk
to state driver's officials or their license will be canceled once their legal
stay has expired.

People with permission from the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service
to stay longer, or those who have applied for that permission, can have their
licenses extended.

If law enforcement officials see someone with an expired "status check" date,
they could and would call the INS, said Public Safety Commissioner Charlie
Weaver. That will make the state safer, he said.

"What we need to do to fight terrorism is a coordinated system. We all need to
work together," Weaver said.

Minnesota lawmakers considered similar driver's license measures this year and
rejected them. Senate Democrats, who were opposed to specifying immigrant status
on driver's licenses, and House Republicans, who backed the idea, could not
agree. Weaver sought and received an administrative law judge's permission to
change the rules without legislative action.

House members and Weaver said making driver's licenses provisions tougher and
giving police officers the tip that they might be dealing with someone who is in
the country illegally would help keep the country safe.

Senate members and immigrant groups said the driver's license measures would
have little impact on terrorism and would only make immigrants targets of
harassment. Some of the state's biggest employers, including Cargill and the
Mayo Clinic, also objected to the provisions.

A majority of state legislatures that considered creating tougher driver's
license provisions for immigrants rejected the proposals, said Tyler Moran of
the National Immigration Law Center. She said there was a feeling that changing
driver's licenses would offer a false security blanket, and "real security takes
real hard work."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 18, 2002 Thursday

Kelly is right about need for office to serve immigrants

BYLINE: DEBORAH LOCKE Editorial Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 758 words


Two of Mayor Randy Kelly's many initiatives this year have met with criticism
and suspicion and interestingly, both are race-related -- the renaming of Cedar
Street after Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the creation of a new office for
immigrant services.

Kelly is correct that St. Paul is still one of a few cities in the country
without a street named for Dr. King. In January, he announced his hopes that
Cedar would be named after the famous civil rights leader. Kelly's proposal
triggered criticism from some African-Americans, who thought he needed to
consult with them more before making his case for a particular street.

Kelly is also correct in asserting that St. Paul needs an office to serve its
growing immigrant population, an idea first recommended by participants at a
"cultural relations summit" in March. The 2000 census reported that the city has
41,138 foreign-born residents, about double the number in 1990. Slightly more
than 40 percent of the immigrants are refugees who fled persecution or
oppression from their home countries.

The funding for such an office could have come from a transfer of two employees
from the city Human Rights Department. That plan was scrapped for now after a
loud outcry from African-Americans who claimed that Kelly was trying to
dismantle the entire human rights program.

That wasn't true then and it isn't true now. But it should be true of a mayor
and city council faced with the serious challenges of next year's budget. The
city Human Rights Department is an overstaffed, duplicative and expensive luxury
that St. Paul can ill afford at this time in budget history. Updated and more
inclusive ways exist to meet today's challenges facing all people of color.

Ask city officials and employees about their challenges: most will answer with
this -- growing needs and limited resources. For months before last fall's
mayoral election, it was clear the next mayor would confront serious financial
challenges. In 2003, the city faces a $16 million budget shortfall.

The city council has been aware of the financial bloodletting that lay ahead.
For example, in October 2001, the council reviewed the city's Human Rights
Department. Council member Pat Harris pointed out that many responsibilities of
the state Human Rights Department overlap with those of the city Human Rights
Department.

He's entirely correct. Most discrimination cases that originate in St. Paul are
filed with the state Department of Human Rights, not with the city agency. In
2001, the state office received 1,363 discrimination complaints. The department
has 57 full-time employees. Of the complaints filed with the state, 153
originated from St. Paul.

That same year, the city Human Services Department received 130 complaints of
discrimination. The city department had a staff of 14 (four were managerial).
Its current budget is $912,000 a year. A human rights deputy director position
has been eliminated and a part-time employee was transferred to the finance
department.

Kelly says there was no question that the city Human Rights Department does a
good job. But he knows something about staffing and budgets for human services.
Kelly, a former state legislator, oversaw the Minnesota Department of Human
Rights budget and has a good handle on case loads and staffing required for an
efficient operation.

He also knows the challenges facing a newcomer from Latin America or Africa or
Asia, where citizens receive no protection from oppressive governments. Many new
citizens well remember life under siege, and struggled mightily to overcome a
fear of government after moving here.

Consequently, an office or agency that acts as a clearinghouse and welcome wagon
is long overdue here. Other cities, like Boston, have had them for a long time,
yet those cities aren't nearly the magnet for certain populations such as the
Hmong or Somalis.

Despite the opposition he has encountered, Kelly is not one to back down -- even
when he is confronted with cries of racism. With characteristic resolve, the
mayor says he is confident the city will eventually name a street after Dr. King
and he still hopes it's Cedar Street. Additionally, he's certain that immigrants
will receive specialized services through their own office.

St. Paul is a city where change doesn't come easily, but Kelly is a man with a
plan and a conviction that the status quo is his worst enemy. On these issues,
he's absolutely right.

Write Locke at dlocke@pioneerpress.com or 345 Cedar St., St. Paul, MN 55101.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 26, 2002 Friday

TWIN CITIES: Report highlights immigrant contributions

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 643 words


Waves of Asian, Latino and African immigrants have brought new languages and
cultures to the Twin Cities, as well as concerns among some Minnesotans about
job competition and the cost of social services.

In a report released today, the Greater Twin Cities United Way attempts to allay
those anxieties by showing contributions that immigrants have made to the local
and national economies. Examples range from immigrants who open businesses and
provide jobs, to others whose investments invigorate blighted areas such as
University Avenue in St. Paul and Lake Street in Minneapolis.

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks heightened the apprehension some feel, officials
of the Greater Twin Cities United Way said, and with the economic downturn
adding to those anxieties, the agency is taking steps to dispel such fears.

Well before Sept. 11, questions about the effects of immigration began emerging
as a theme during meetings with employees of some of the 3,000 companies that
take part in the United Way's annual fund-raising campaign and other groups,
said Terri Barreiro, vice president of community building for the organization,
which serves eight metro counties, including Ramsey, Dakota and Washington.

"Often there would be questions about what effect all the new immigrant
population will have on social service demands or housing problems we're seeing
in the community," Barreiro said. "People are at least curious and in some cases
apprehensive that our embracing immigrants is causing problems for us."

The report, "Immigrants and the Economy," brings together into a single document
research on the effects of immigration on both the job market and on public
services. According to research cited in the report, immigrant labor helps raise
national economic output with little displacement of native-born workers. A
majority of studies reviewed for the report also find little difference between
social service spending for immigrants and natives. The report will help the
United Way and the 225 agencies the agency supports focus their efforts and
answer questions from the public.

Immigrants and racial and ethnic minorities in Minnesota have an estimated $6
billion in buying power, according to research from 2000 cited in the United Way
report. Bruce Corrie, a Concordia University professor who contributed to that
research, said newcomers bring a vitality that boosts the economy for all.

"The fear is centered on the concept of a zero-sum game -- immigrants take jobs
or resources from other people, immigrants benefits at the expense of other poor
people," Corrie said. "To look at the bigger picture, with all this activity
that happens with immigrants contributing to the economy, I maintain that new
wealth is created."

The United Way report comes as the job market has gotten more difficult for some
immigrants and racial and ethnic minorities, said Claudia Fuentes, executive
director of Hispanic Advocacy and Community Empowerment through Research, or
HACER.

"After Sept. 11, there is a tangible difference in terms of how Latinos are
treated," Fuentes said. "There is less confidence in what has been a reliable
work force. This has had a lot of impact on people who are supporting their
families."

UNITED WAY

FINDINGS

In a report released today, the Greater Twin Cities United Way reached the
following conclusions:

*Immigrants boost economic output.

*They create more jobs than they fill.

*They invigorate blighted areas, such as University Avenue in St. Paul.

*They open businesses at a rapid rate.

*They expand their community's economic base.

*They provide role models.

The report, "Immigrants and the Economy," is available on the Web at
www.unitedwaytwincities.org. Or call (612) 340-7400 to request a copy.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 28, 2002 Sunday

MINNEAPOLIS: License policies discussed at forum

BYLINE: ANGELA MACIAS Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 236 words


Members of the Latino community expressed frustration to local elected officials
about the new driver's license requirements for immigrants, among other issues
at a Saturday forum.

About 30 people at Minneapolis' St. Stephen's Church also heard legislative
updates from Rep. Karen Clark, Rep. Jim Davine and Sen. Linda Berglin, all
Democratic-Farmer-Labor legislators representing Minneapolis.

Minneapolis School Board candidate Joe Erickson and a representative from U.S.
Senator Paul Wellstone's campaign were also at the event sponsored by
Progressive Minnesota and Service Employees International Union.

Audience members particularly questioned the state's ability to single out
immigrants with new driver's licenses.

An administrative law judge granted Public Safety Commissioner Charlie Weaver
permission to make changes in the driver's license policies, requiring two forms
of identification to get a license and also requiring that the date immigrants
should leave the country be printed on the license.

Though temporary immigrants still get a license valid for four years, they must
see a state driver's license official before their stay is up to keep the
license current.

Many in the audience seemed frustrated by the injustices and questioned how they
could influence changes without being able to vote.

Angela Macias can be reached at amacias@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2083.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 13, 2002 Tuesday

INS stops child-smuggling ring

BYLINE: JONATHAN D. SALANT Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 494 words


WASHINGTON -- A discovery of four lonely children in a Latin American country
helped Immigration and Naturalization Service agents uncover the largest
international child smuggling ring they have ever found, officials said Monday.

After interviewing the children, following other leads and sharing that
information with other governments, Guatemalan authorities stopped seven buses
in that country in April, finding 53 children between the ages of 2 and 17.

That ended a ring that had smuggled hundreds of children into the United States
from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras since 1994, agency officials said. The
ring primarily brought children to the United States whose parents were already
here, many of them illegally, officials said.

The investigation began when agents found the four children late last fall. INS
officials declined to give more information, citing an ongoing investigation.
"It's very uncommon to find small children unaccompanied, with no ties, not
knowing where they were going," said Johnny Williams, head of field operations
for the INS.

INS officials said the ring would take children from their native countries,
bring them to Mexico and then smuggle them into the United States. All the
children passed through Los Angeles before going to different parts of the
country, Williams said.

"There's nothing more vulnerable than a 5-year-old child who has no idea of
where he's going, who is being taken care of -- or not -- by strangers," said
Hipolito Acosta, who directed INS' Mexico City office during the investigation
and now heads the agency's Houston office.

Parents paid smugglers $5,000 per child, from infants to teenagers. They crowded
into hotel lobbies to sleep and the youngest were known to cry all night because
they weren't fed enough, officials said.

"It was a mean-spirited criminal enterprise, driven by greed and criminal
profit," Williams said. "When I hear about children crying throughout the night,
I know it wasn't a pleasurable trip."

INS special agents from Los Angeles and Washington arrested three alleged ring
members -- Ana Karina Cruz Rivas, Juan Orlando Servellon DeLeon and Andrea Giron
-- in Houston on Friday. INS agents arrested alleged ring leader Berta Campos in
Los Angeles last month and Guillermo Antonio Paniagua in Houston in June.

All are charged with conspiracy to commit alien smuggling, the INS said. The
charges carry a penalty of 10 years in prison and/or a $250,000 fine, officials
said.

Campos and Paniagua have been sent to Washington to face charges. The three
people arrested last week in Houston will have preliminary hearings in Houston
and be tried in Washington.

As for the children, the INS will review each case to see which ones will be
allowed to stay in the United States, Williams said. If their parents are
undocumented aliens, they could face deportation, but those cases as well will
be reviewed individually, Williams said.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 15, 2002 Thursday

Heavier immigration to U.S. expected to continue for Mideast Muslims

BYLINE: ELIZABETH SHOGREN Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 521 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigration to the United States from the Middle East has been so
heavy in recent years -- and is expected to continue at such high levels -- that
it is likely to have significant political and social implications here, some
demographers and other experts say.

The number of Middle Eastern immigrants in the United States has grown from
fewer than 200,000 in 1970 to almost 1.5 million in 2000. The portion who are
Muslims has jumped from 15 percent in 1970 to 73 percent in 2000, according to
an analysis of census data released Wednesday by the Center for Immigration
Studies, a Washington-based group that supports limits on immigration.

"Their successful integration is more important than people had realized in the
past," said Steven Camarota, who wrote the report for the group.

However, some groups of Middle Eastern Americans and experts on immigration
criticized the report's authors for using the data to try to further their aim
of reducing immigration.

"The anti-immigrant groups have risen up and discovered they can use the Muslim
boogeyman to try to achieve their objective," said James Zogby, president of the
Arab American Institute.

"It begins with the assumption that Muslims are scary, they are a danger to
America. And then it seeks to put together faulty data with bad analysis to
prove the point," said Zogby, whose group works for civic and political
influence for Americans of Arab descent.

However, Zogby did agree with the basic findings of the report: that Middle
Eastern immigrants are on the rise and that more of them are Muslims.

Zogby and Camarota also agreed that one of the likely effects of having more
Muslim immigrants voting in U.S. elections is that U.S. foreign policy toward
the Middle East will probably become less tilted toward Israel.

"This is an emerging counterweight to the people who feel very strongly about
the Arab-Israeli conflict on the other side," Camarota said.

The increase in Muslim immigrants was noticeable this year when three Democratic
House members from Michigan, where concentrations of Muslim immigrants are high,
were among the 21 voting against a resolution expressing solidarity with Israel
in its fight against Palestinian militants.

Scholars who spoke Wednesday at a news conference announcing the report stressed
the possible negative impacts from the increase of Muslim immigrants from the
Middle East.

Daniel Pipes, director of the Middle East Forum, a Washington-based think tank
that seeks to promote U.S. interests in the Middle East, said U.S. authorities
have to do more to prevent even a small number of militant Islamic activists
from slipping into the country as immigrants, visitors or students.

"This is our enemy; we must not let it into our house," he said.

He asserted that most of the institutions created by Muslim immigrants are
Islamist and are working against mainstream American principles.

However, Zogby accused Pipes of misrepresenting Muslim immigrants. "They didn't
come here to Islamize America," Zogby said. "They came here for economic
opportunity and political freedom."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 18, 2002 Sunday

World's FAIR;
The face of the Minnesota State Fair is ever-changing amid the ebb and flow of
immigrants.

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 188 words


There was a time when lefse might have counted as ethnic food at the Minnesota
State Fair.

Today, a fifth-generation German dairy farmer can stop for Vietnamese egg rolls.
A Hmong woman whose story cloth is on display can check out the handiwork of a
Scandinavian folk artist.

And anyone within earshot of Richard "Mr. Yummy" Olawole can buy a plate of
Nigerian-style veggie rice.

While lefse, a Norwegian treat, is still a mainstay, the contemporary Fair
lineup has an even broader international reach.

Just as European immigrants began reshaping Minnesota and the Fair a century
ago, an influx of Asian, Latino and African immigrants is bringing new tastes,
crafts and activities to the Great Minnesota Get-Together.

This year, the Fair will highlight the cultures of immigrants past and present
with its first-ever Global Village Day. Also for the first time, the Fair is
advertising in a number of languages, including Hmong, Spanish and Somali.

The message, Fair diversity consultant Sam Verdeja said, is "to say to the
existing communities as well as to the emerging communities that this is your
Fair."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 25, 2002 Sunday

Issues revisited at Sacco-Vanzetti anniversary

BYLINE: BIPASHA RAY Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 644 words


BOSTON -- Vito Bruno remembers his father and thousands of others marching
through Boston's North End 75 years ago to protest the executions of Nicola
Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti.

The Italian immigrants were put to death in 1927 after they were convicted of
killing two people during a robbery. Some observers -- then and now -- say the
trial focused unfairly on their anarchist political beliefs and status as
immigrants

"They were being targeted because they were Italian," said Bruno, 85, who lived
just a few blocks from the funeral parlor where the bodies of Sacco and Vanzetti
were kept. "I was too young to realize then. But now I understand what a wrong
thing that was."

With Friday's anniversary of the executions, the case raises questions about
capital punishment, ethnic profiling and the treatment of immigrants that are
relevant today.

"America was going through a very similar period then in the early '20s as it is
now -- unrest, fear, sense of insecurity, fear of foreigners," said Robert
D'Attilio, the Web site director for the Sacco-Vanzetti Project, which makes
artifacts of the case available to the public.

The case stems from the April 1920 slayings of a paymaster and guard who were
gunned down during a $16,000 heist in suburban Braintree. Sacco, a shoemaker,
and Vanzetti, a fish peddler, were arrested shortly afterward as they went to
pick up a car authorities linked to the crime.

Vanzetti had a prior conviction for attempted robbery, but some believe the two
were as good as dead before the trial began.

The crime came at the height of Italian immigration and against a backdrop of
other atrocities committed by anarchists, including a 1920 New York bombing that
killed 40 people near Wall Street.

Sacco and Vanzetti were held until September before being charged with the
killings.

According to some accounts, eyewitnesses were brought to jail, where Sacco and
Vanzetti were made to assume poses aping the movements the killers were seen to
make. After the verdict, Judge Webster Thayer was quoted as saying, "Did you see
what I did with those anarchist bastards the other day?"

Sacco and Vanzetti spent seven years on death row as supporters made their case
an international cause celebre. Despite evidence of perjury by prosecution
witnesses and murder confessions from other men after the trial, they were
electrocuted on Aug. 23, 1927.

Half a century later, former Gov. Michael Dukakis took the unprecedented step of
proclaiming that the men did not receive a fair trial.

Mary Anne Trasciatti, a rhetoric professor at New York's Hofstra University and
a Sacco and Vanzetti scholar, said there are many modern parallels to the case.

"The idea that the death penalty is used against minorities, against people of
color, still exists -- an enduring form of racism and xenophobia," she said.
"The minorities here are no longer Italians, but now Arab Americans, African
Americans, Hispanics -- whoever happens to be perceived as the 'other.' "

To commemorate the anniversary, the Boston Public Library will host an exhibit
beginning Sept. 30 of crime scene photographs, newly edited footage of the
funeral and handwritten letters from the two men.

"The impetus behind this is not strictly historical, but to present the
materials from the case and from the lives of Sacco and Vanzetti, so people can
make up their own minds," said D'Attilio, who is coordinating the exhibit. "We
want to present the facts associated with this case."

Filmmaker David Rothauser, who is producing a feature based on Vanzetti's diary,
said the story holds significance today.

"They were discriminated against because they were immigrants, they were
radicals, people perceived them to be terrorists," he said. "All these things
are what people are facing today."

Online: http://www.saccovanzettiproject.org

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 26, 2002 Monday

Argentine visa requests spike

BYLINE: JOAN QUIGLEY Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: TECH; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 271 words


MIAMI -- Non-immigrant visa applications from Argentina expanded dramatically
between March 2001 and June 2002, reflecting tougher U.S. immigration standards
as the South American country's economic crisis worsened.

During the six-month period ending March 31, 2001, 9,948 visas were issued in
Buenos Aires, according to records from the U.S. State Department. During the
three months ending June 30, this year, 35,439 visas were issued there.

If the current trend holds through September, visa applications from Argentina
will have grown sevenfold in the past two years.

The upward trend in Argentine visa requests stems in part from the end of the
visa-waiver program in late February 2002, said State Department spokeswoman
Kelly Shannon. Under that program, which applies to residents of 28 countries,
Argentines could travel to the United States without a visa and stay for up to
90 days.

The Justice Department terminated Argentina's participation in the program
effective Feb. 21, 2002, citing the country's economic collapse and 20 percent
unemployment.

"The people who are applying are the professional middle class who didn't have a
reason to leave Argentina," said Antonia Canero, a Miami immigration lawyer. "If
you wake up one day and you can't get your money out of your bank for three
months, that's scary."

Now, Argentines who wish to emigrate to the United States must obtain one of
several non-immigrant visas, such as a B1, for short-term business; a B2, for
short-term pleasure trips; an H1B, for professionals; or an E visa, for
investments, said Miami immigration lawyer Sandra Murado.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 30, 2002 Friday

Rwandan faces U.S. charge of genocide

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 706 words


A Rwandan man arrested at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport last year
has been accused of committing genocide in his native country and now faces
deportation in what the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service says is the
first time it has brought such an allegation.

Enos Iragaba Kagaba denied the genocide charge in an appearance Thursday in
Immigration Court in Bloomington. The charge apparently stems from the civil war
and acts of genocide in Rwanda in the mid-1990s that left more than 800,000
dead.

The decision was hailed by Greg Stanton, president of Genocide Watch of
Washington, D.C., a coalition of 20 human rights groups coordinating an
international campaign to stop genocide.

"This is a very significant step forward because it means the INS is
investigating the grounds for denial of admission to the United States, and
those really do include genocide," Stanton said. "It's a very hopeful sign."

INS inspectors stopped Kagaba on Dec. 14, 2001, for attempting to enter the
country without a valid document, said Tim Counts, a spokesman for the INS
district that covers Minnesota and the Dakotas.

Soon after his arrest, investigators from the local INS office began looking
into whether Kagaba had engaged in acts of genocide in Rwanda. The investigation
unfolded in this country and overseas.

From April to July of 1994, after four years of civil war between Rwanda's Hutu
majority and Tutsi minority, hard-line Hutu militias slaughtered over 800,000
ethnic Tutsis, and any Hutus who opposed them, in a genocide allegedly planned
by military officials of the central African country.

It was unclear Thursday which ethnic group Kagaba was affiliated with.

On Aug. 15, the INS brought the genocide charge against Kagaba, who has been in
INS custody since his arrest. The INS would not say where he is being detained
or elaborate on the charges against Kagaba. Genocide has been grounds for
denying admission to the United States since 1990, Counts said, but this marks
the first time the service has cited it in seeking to bar someone's entry.

In earlier court appearances, Kagaba has admitted entering the country without
valid paperwork and denied a fraud charge, Counts said.

Kagaba's attorney, Albert Usumanu, said that his client told inspectors when he
arrived at the airport that he wanted to apply for asylum.

"We didn't expect the charge," Usumanu said. "All we can say is that my client
is innocent of the charge."

Kagaba, who has relatives who live in the Twin Cities, was a teacher in Rwanda
when he fled the country and ended up in Zambia, which granted him refugee
status, Usumanu said. He ran into problems there, Kagaba's lawyer said, after he
testified at the United Nations' International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda,
where more than 60 people have faced trial on charges related to the genocide in
Rwanda.

Usumanu confirmed a May 2000 news report in The Post of Zambia stating that
Kagaba had been arrested in Zambia for allegedly taking part in acts of genocide
in Rwanda in 1996. In the article, Kagaba denied involvement, saying he was
headmaster of a school in Zambia at the time of the incidents in Rwanda.

Kagaba's lawyer said the arrest and genocide allegation in Zambia stemmed from a
disagreement between Kagaba and his boss at the school.

"Those who commit acts of genocide have no place in the United States," said
James W. Ziglar, INS commissioner. "The INS will continue to ensure that the
U.S. does not become a safe haven for human rights abusers and persecutors."

The law denying admission to an alien who has taken part in genocide cites the
International Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide.

The convention defines genocide as the following acts committed with the intent
to destroy a national, ethnic, racial or religious group: killing or causing
seriously bodily or mental harm to members of the group; deliberately inflicting
on the group "conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical
destruction"; imposing measures to prevent births within the group; and forcibly
transferring children of the group to another group.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 10, 2002 Tuesday

Would-be U.S. immigrants still waiting on native shores

BYLINE: TODD NELSON Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1167 words


A year ago, Amara Kamara was looking forward to welcoming his nine brothers and
sisters to the United States.

He had dreamed of reuniting his family, bringing them to safety after years as
refugees in Africa. Watching them thrive at work and school. Introducing them to
his newborn daughter.

Then, less than a week before they were to arrive, he knew the reunion was off
as soon as he saw the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks unfold on TV. As the
anniversary approaches, the St. Paul man still has no idea when or whether his
siblings will join him here. They are still in limbo, along with tens of
thousands of refugees around the world who were approved to travel to the United
States before Sept. 11.

"They were supposed to come Sept. 17," said the 33-year-old Kamara, the head of
his family with his father missing from the war in their native Liberia. "Now
it's being delayed and delayed. The happiest thing that would happen is for them
to come over here."

Kamara's plight is but one example of how tighter enforcement and greater
scrutiny resulting from the attacks has made the often-uncertain lives of
newcomers to this country even more unpredictable. Anxiety has spread beyond the
Muslim, Arab and African refugees and immigrants who were the immediate targets
of many post-Sept. 11 measures to other immigrants from Southeast Asia and Latin
America who also face more aggressive enforcement.

Naturalization applications, which the district office of the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Bloomington said had been taking six months to
process, now require 10 to 11 months to complete, in part because of the
additional checks.

Other changes include:

New Minnesota driver's licenses that show when a temporary immigrant's legal
stay in the United States ends. The new licenses prompted a lawsuit by the
American Civil Liberties Union in Minnesota and several advocacy groups.

Mistaken interpretation of the new license rules has led some officials to
incorrectly force Muslim women to remove their head covering, or hijab, before
having their photos taken.

New security procedures that officials at the University of Minnesota-Twin
Cities campuses say have resulted in visa delays that have reduced the number of
international students arriving from certain countries. To avoid possible
problems re-entering the country, some students have put off traveling home for
holidays or summer break. As they begin this semester, foreign students will
have their personal information entered into an electronic tracking database
that replaces a paper system.

Security checks for everyone submitting any application to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Now, even people applying for naturalization will have
their names run through the Interagency Border Inspection System, which,
according to the Treasury Department, tracks suspicious individuals and can
access records on wanted people and criminal histories.

Officials of the local INS district, which covers Minnesota, North Dakota and
South Dakota, said their priority since Sept. 11 has been counterterrorism, with
a greater focus on critical industries and places such as the Minneapolis-St.
Paul International Airport and utility plants. Previously, the district had
placed greater stress on undocumented immigrants who had committed criminal
offenses and employers who hired undocumented workers.

"The changes that have happened are kind of practice and policy for the most
part," said INS district spokesman Tim Counts, who said that the number of
arrests this year likely will be only slightly higher than last year, in part
because of Sept. 11. "Despite the widespread perception, the vast majority of
the work we do is the same as a year ago."

One place where the INS will see an increase is in the 128 new inspectors the
agency will add at 28 ports of entry in Minnesota and North Dakota along the
border with Canada, Counts said. They will help carry out more intensive
inspections of people and vehicles entering the country and will help keep all
ports of entry staffed round-the-clock.

The slowdown in refugee admissions has hit Kamara and other Minnesotans awaiting
relatives particularly hard, because refugees account for a large share of
immigrants who enter the state.

After the attacks, the government froze refugee arrivals until November,
resuming with increased security checks, focusing on men from Muslim countries,
and at a much slower pace. President Bush had authorized 70,000 refugee
admissions through the year that ends Sept. 30; advocates estimate only up to
25,000 will arrive. Advocates questioned the focus on refugees because none has
been linked to terrorism, and even before Sept. 11 each had to pass medical and
security screenings.

In Minnesota, 577 refugees arrived from January through Aug. 27, a decrease of
74 percent from the same period a year ago, according to the Minnesota
Department of Health.

"It's devastating on both ends, for the people who are here and the people who
are waiting," said Ann O'Fallon, the state's refugee health coordinator.
"There's lots of distress here wondering when or if those people will ever come
over here and lots of distress on many fronts knowing the conditions people are
living in overseas."

Having survived such conditions himself, Kamara, a personal trainer, worries
about how his siblings, ages 12 to 36, are faring in Guinea, the West African
country where they fled after war broke out in neighboring Liberia in 1989. He
has not seen them since 1996, when he and his then fiancee left for the United
States, and has had limited phone and e-mail contact with them lately. But he
sees them doing well if they ever get here.

"I want them to be somewhere where I can look after them and they can be able to
do something for themselves," Kamara said. "I just want a better life for each
of them."

IMMIGRATION

SYSTEM CHANGES

Policies and changes stemming from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks that affect
refugees and immigrants include:

A new entry-exit registration program, starting Wednesday, will require citizens
of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, Syria and other countries deemed to pose a national
security risk to be fingerprinted and photographed. The system eventually will
allow tracking of the 35 million foreign visitors who enter the United States
annually.

New requirements have complicated the process of getting Social Security
numbers, in some cases causing delays for immigrants and international students
trying to get services including bank accounts and utility services.

Renewed enforcement of a rule requiring noncitizens to report address changes
within 10 days of the move or risk penalties up to deportation.

Tighter restrictions on information about where detained immigrants are being
held, which advocates say makes them harder for lawyers and family members to
locate and assist.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 22, 2002 Sunday

German candidates bash immigrants, U.S. policy

BYLINE: TOM HUNDLEY and NORA FITZGERALD Chicago Tribune

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1118 words


BERLIN --Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder holds the slenderest of leads over
challenger Edmund Stoiber as Germans go to the polls today.

The election campaign, which featured a startling level of anti-American
rhetoric, was one of the most fiercely contested in German history. In many
ways, it revealed more about Germany than about either candidate.

Germany remains allergic to military involvements and mistrustful of foreigners.
In the contentious lead-up to Sunday's vote, Schroeder and Stoiber did their
best to boil it down to a choice between the electorate's worst fears.

After trailing in the polls and almost being written off by the experts,
Schroeder surged into the lead last week after he vowed that Germany would not
join the U.S. in any military action against Iraq.

Seeing his advantage evaporate, Stoiber, the candidate of the center-right
Christian Democrats, launched a ferocious attack on Germany's immigrants and
their alleged links to terrorism.

After spending the summer trying to project a moderate image and a warm
personality, Stoiber told a raucous working-class crowd last week that 30,000
known Muslim extremists were living in Germany.

"Among these 30,000 so-called Islamists, there are 4,000 who are ready for
violence. The police know that; 4,000 are known by name as being disposed to
violence. I say to you, these 4,000 -- I will expel them from the country," he
told the cheering crowd.

Gunther Beckstein, the Christian Democrats' spokesman on immigration matters,
said a new law that opens the door for a small increase in immigration was a
formula for disaster.

"I am convinced that the goal is to make Germany a modern, multicultural country
of immigrants," he said. "That is exactly what we don't want."

Playing the immigration card produced the desired result. Stoiber quickly made
up some lost ground in the polls, with at least one poll showing him back in the
lead.

A spokesman for Schroeder called the tactic "despicable" and accused Stoiber of
stooping to "beer hall politics" that evoked Germany's Nazi past.

But Schroeder's campaign was shaken when his justice minister on Thursday
reportedly drew a comparison between President Bush's Iraq policy and Adolf
Hitler.

"Bush wants to divert attention from domestic difficulties," Herta
Daeubler-Gmelinwas quoted as saying. "That is a popular method. Hitler did it."

She denied making the remark, but Schroeder wrote a letter to Bush apologizing.

"Let me assure you that there is no place at my Cabinet table for anyone who
makes a connection between the American president and such a criminal,"
Schroeder wrote.

Germany has been one of Washington's most dependable allies, but Schroeder
declared that he "will not click his heels" and say yes to whatever Bush
decides.

Schroeder pledged that he would not support the U.S. in a war against Iraq even
if the Bush administration won the approval of the U.N. Security Council.

Schroeder defended his opposition as he closed his election campaign Saturday.

"We say openly: The Middle East, Iraq included, needs a lot of peace but not a
new war," Schroeder said at his final campaign rally in the eastern city of
Rostock.

Friendship with the U.S. is a valued asset in Germany, and not one that a
serious politician would lightly place in jeopardy. But Schroeder took that risk
when nothing else seemed to work for him.

If he wins the election, Schroeder may have to find a way to salvage his
relationship with Washington while not appearing to renege on his campaign
promise.

British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has tried to position himself as the
bridge between America and Europe, offered a fig leaf this week, saying in an
interview, "Germany is throwing up questions that it is very sensible to be
asking.

"There may well be differences of opinion, but I have no doubt about the fact
that at the end of the day everyone will work very closely together," Blair
said. "We should not exaggerate the differences."

One suggestion has been that Germany could take a larger share of the
peacekeeping chores in Afghanistan.

When election season began several months ago, most analysts assumed it would
hinge on economic issues. Germany's sluggish growth rate, high unemployment, and
debt-ridden health, pension and social service sectors spelled trouble for the
incumbent.

As state premier in Bavaria, Stoiber presides over a bustling regional economy.

The conservative Christian Democrats hoped to contrast their candidate's success
with the nation's shortcomings, but as the campaign unfolded, the risk-averse
Stoiber offered little to differentiate himself from the government's cautious
approach to fixing the economy.

Because the German economy is the largest and most important in Europe, this
election is being anxiously watched by the rest of the European Union. What has
become apparent to many is that Germany remains resistant to change, and the
problems facing its economy will not be fixed by Sunday's poll no matter who
wins.

Whoever wins today will almost certainly have to rule from within a coalition.
Schroeder's Social Democrats are already allied with the Greens, and Stoiber's
Christian Democrats would most likely ally with the pro-business Free Democrats.

Polls indicate that the Greens could improve on their showing of 6.7 percent
four years ago, while the Free Democrats appear to be in some distress, grubbing
for votes in the political muck of anti-Semitism.

Juergen Moellemann, the Free Democrats' deputy chief, created a stir last spring
when he attributed a rise in German anti-Semitism to the acerbic personality of
Michel Friedman, a leading spokesman for Germany's Jewish community and a
familiar face on the talk-show circuit.

In a new leaflet from Moellemann, Friedman is pictured alongside Israeli Prime
Minister Ariel Sharon.

The latter is accused of "warmongering, taking tanks into refugee camps and
disregarding the decision of the U.N. Security Council."

All parties were quick to condemn this as blatant pandering to the extreme
right.

One key feature of German electoral politics that appears to be receding is the
tension between the country's prosperous western half and the formerly communist
east.

Since reunification a decade ago, a solid bloc of eastern Germans has voted for
the former communists, now known as Party of Democratic Socialism. This time,
polls indicate the party could fall short of the 5 percent needed to enter
parliament.

"If the communists lose, it may say something about the evolving unity of the
country," said Alexander Klaus, a historian at Berlin's Free University.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday

Officials fault pre-9;
11 intelligence lapses

BYLINE: Washington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 459 words


WASHINGTON -- Federal immigration and aviation officials testified Tuesday that
they might have been able to find two of the Sept. 11 hijackers before the
attacks on New York and Washington if they had been given more information about
a CIA alert in late August 2001.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service did not use its master database to
aggressively search for hijackers Nawaf Alhazmi and Khalid Almihdhar in the
three weeks before the attacks because it was not told the case was urgent,
Joseph Greene, the agency's assistant commissioner for investigations, told the
House and Senate Intelligence committees. Both terrorism suspects were already
in the United States.

Similarly, aviation officials complained that they received no notice that
intelligence agencies were searching for the pair, because such information was
not routinely given to the Federal Aviation Agency at the time.

"Had we had information that those two individuals presented a threat to
aviation or posed a great danger, we would have put them on the list and they
should have been picked up in the reservation process," said Claudio Manno, a
Transportation Security Administration intelligence official.

Both men bought tickets in their own names for the American Airlines flight that
slammed into the Pentagon.

The new information, some of which was immediately disputed by intelligence
officials, was the latest in a series of sharp critiques to emerge from three
weeks of committee hearings on intelligence community failures before the terror
attacks. Unlike previous disclosures, the lapses revealed Tuesday were
attributed more to weaknesses in the way government agencies communicated with
each other before Sept. 11, rather than the mishandling of information.

U.S. intelligence officials disputed the INS account, arguing that a Central
Intelligence Report that accompanied the Aug. 23 notice was marked "immediate"
and noted, "We recommend that these two individuals be watchlisted immediately
to be denied entry into the United States."

Also Tuesday, an unrelated audit by the Justice Department's inspector general
found that more than a year after the attacks, the FBI has failed to compile a
comprehensive written assessment of the terrorist threat to the United States.

Inspector General Glenn Fine's investigators found that the FBI never followed
through on a promise to Congress in March 2000 to create a comprehensive written
assessment of terrorist risks.

At the time of the attacks, the FBI had prepared a draft assessment, but it
merely outlined terrorist groups and their sponsors, including little detailed
information that would be useful in guarding against an assault inside the
United States, the auditors found.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 8, 2002 Tuesday

Ashcroft praises terror defense

BYLINE: LISA DONOVAN Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 475 words


America's top prosecutor told the world's police brass Monday that local law
enforcement is "the hands and feet of justice" in the war on terrorism.

"Of course you are the first line of defense," Attorney General John Ashcroft
told those attending the International Association of Chiefs of Police
conference in Minneapolis.

In a 25-minute speech, Ashcroft received two standing ovations -- one as he took
the podium and again when he left the auditorium of the Minneapolis Convention
Center.

In between, he talked about local, state and federal cooperation that has
resulted in terrorism-related arrests from Portland, Ore., to Buffalo, N.Y.

Ashcroft highlighted the "National Security Entry-Exit Program" -- a
registration-at-the border program for people from certain countries. Visitors
from countries identified by the United States as supporting terrorism are
fingerprinted and photographed, and that information goes into a computer.
Meanwhile, a check for visa or criminal problems is done via a national
database. If the background check is clear, visitors are free to do their
business for 30 days, but by the end of that 30 days they must report to a U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service office.

During a congressional hearing last month, one INS official described the
entry-exit program as a way to make sure visitors don't abuse the terms of their
non-immigrant status or, for instance, the educational system, to aid in some
kind of terrorist plot.

Ashcroft said the program highlights not only information-sharing but also the
need for agencies to work together to arrest people who violate the terms of
their visas.

The policy went into effect Oct. 1 at roughly 300 ports of entry into the United
States, according to published reports.

"It is our responsibility -- all of our responsibility -- to combat terrorism,"
Ashcroft said, later adding: "It is what the American people deserve."

One local civil libertarian said he didn't know what to make of the program.

"It's not an automatic thing that people just get to walk into this country,"
said Chuck Samuelson, executive director of the Minnesota Civil Liberties Union.
But he said there are many questions about the program, including how it's
applied.

Later in the morning, St. Paul Police Chief William Finney, who missed the
speech, said the spirit of cooperation has never been more important considering
what we learned after Sept. 11: that terrorists live and work among us.

"I think there is a false sense of security, that nothing's going to happen.
We've seen it, we know that terrorists are making their home in the heartland
and therefore they are a direct threat here."

FBI Director Robert Mueller is scheduled to address the police convention today.

Lisa Donovan can be reached at ldonovan@pioneerpress.com 651-228-5591.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 15, 2002 Tuesday

Up to 11 bodies found in train car

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 129 words


DENISON, Iowa -- Up to 11 badly decomposed bodies, possibly belonging to
immigrants who were being smuggled into the country, were found in a Union
Pacific rail car parked at a grain elevator outside of town, authorities said
Monday.

All the victims boarded the train in Mexico, but their nationality was
unconfirmed, said Jerry Heinauer, district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for Nebraska and Iowa.

Heinauer said he was told by the Mexican consul that the car left Matamoros,
Mexico, in June. It was parked in Oklahoma before heading to Denison.

Jose Luis Cuevas, Mexican consul for the Dakotas, Iowa and Nebraska, said
railroad officials had given him the impression that the bodies had been in the
railroad car at least four months.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 16, 2002 Wednesday

Rail car deaths were slow, painful

BYLINE: MIKE WILSON Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 443 words


DES MOINES, Iowa -- Eleven suspected illegal immigrants whose badly decomposed
bodies were found in a locked railroad car probably died slowly and painfully
from severe overheating or asphyxiation, authorities said Tuesday.

The victims apparently boarded the grain hopper in Mexico four months ago and
may have been smuggled into the country, said Jerry Heinauer, district director
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service for Nebraska and Iowa.

Their nationalities were unknown and authorities said they did not know if the
victims were men, women or children.

The car had been latched from the outside and there was no evidence of food or
water inside, Sheriff Tom Hogan said. He said it was difficult to count the
huddled bodies; authorities said there were as many as 11.

Authorities removed the bodies Tuesday, one day after they were discovered near
Denison, 60 miles northeast of Omaha, Neb.

The rail car was sealed and moved to Des Moines for examination by
investigators.

The medical examiner will try to determine causes of death, and authorities will
then begin trying to identify the remains.

Corinne Stern, the chief medical examiner in El Paso County, Texas, said the
victims may have become delirious and suffered hallucinations, severe cramping,
headaches and vomiting before succumbing to the heat or a lack of oxygen.

"They were probably subjected to temperatures equivalent to those inside a
locked car during the heat of summer," said Stern, who is not involved in the
investigation.

Heinauer said authorities did not yet know if the victims were being smuggled,
but he said the case fits the pattern of some smuggling operations.

He said he was told by Mexican officials that the rail car left Matamoros,
Mexico, in June. It had been parked long-term in Oklahoma since then, before
being brought to Denison.

Julio Salinas, a supervisory agent with the U.S. Border Patrol at McAllen,
Texas, said it is not unusual for immigrants to cross the border in rail cars.
He said trains are often checked by Border Patrol and customs agents as they
pass through cities.

"Most recently, a couple of months ago, we found 26 that had been inside a
hopper car a couple of hours and some of them were dehydrated," Salinas said.
"There were no fatalities. We do come across situations like that."

He said immigrants take life-threatening risks when they climb into a grain car
on a smuggler's promise of freedom.

"There are some boxcars or grain hoppers that can only be opened from the
outside," Salinas said. "Once they shut the door they leave their life in the
hands of a smuggler."

Online: www.ins.usdoj.gov

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 20, 2002 Sunday

In their own words;
Jeanette Stohlmann encourages new immigrants to capture memories of their old
lives as they begin building new ones.

BYLINE: MARY BETH POTTRATZ Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 822 words


Jeanette Stohlmann knows what it's like to be plunged suddenly into another
culture, hearing English in a strange accent, surrounded by unfamiliar clothing,
signs and customs. She taught third grade for a year in Adelaide, Australia.

"I learned what it's like to be a minority," she said, recalling the English
dialect. "I wanted so badly to learn the language, fit in, be treated like
everyone else."

Stohlmann, a teacher at St. Paul's Battle Creek Middle School, drew from that
experience as she built a novel way to teach her own recently immigrated
students, who come from 15 countries and speak limited English. She has them
draw maps of their country of origin, interview their parents about family
history, paint homeland pictures, and document songs, poems and histories, often
in their native language.

As the children paint native scenes, describe tropical climates, or print the
words of a favorite song, they learn the corresponding words in English, listen
to western music and assimilate American customs. Within several weeks, each
student has completed a 16-page booklet expressing his or her heritage, work
that bridges a gap between cultures.

"I feel better about myself now," said a 12-year-old boy whose parents are from
Mexico. His grades have gone from C's to A's and B's, and of Stohlmann, he said:
"She's learning about us while we learn about America -- she's like the teacher
who loves teaching!"

A 13-year-old girl from El Salvador whose family has been here just over a year
remembers having one month's notice to come to the U.S. She lost touch with many
of her friends who have also emigrated.

"Friends are most important in school," she said. "When you talk English with
your friends, you understand it more and learn it more." She also really enjoyed
writing about her ancestors and working on heritage projects.

And Faisal Hussein, 13, said his favorite thing to do after school was playing
with friends and doing homework from his English language learner class. He
enjoyed discussing his Somali culture in English with his teacher, and learning
English words for plants and animals from the picture books and projects in the
classroom.

Camels grazing a dry Somalian pasture, the tan adobe walls of a Mexican home and
palm trees on a foggy day in Cambodia decorate some of the 30 wooden "bricks"
that students completed recently. The bricks will be stacked together into a
"heritage wall" in their classroom, topped with an American flag.

"I just want them to appreciate and never forget where they came from,"
Stohlmann said. "As time goes by, maybe those stories will be lost. They are so
novel and interesting; it is a uniqueness that they need to preserve about
themselves. I want them to be proud of their ancestry."

For some students, emigrating wasn't a pleasant experience, and many had family
members who were killed. "Some came from war-torn countries, but still recall
the wonderful heritage of their distant land," she said, "and that's precious to
them."

"All these memories are things that as adults can shield them from the storms of
life," said Stohlmann, who admits wanting to recall her own childhood. "It is
like a reservoir of days upon days of love and kindness and sweetness," she
said.

During her 15 years as an educator, Stohlmann took time off to raise her five
children in the 1980s, and returned to teaching as her children entered school.
She has also authored two books, "Micah Makes Six" and "Make my Life an
Alleluia!"

Most recently, Stohlmann's article, "A Fabric of Our Lives," was published in an
anthology titled "Honoring Our Ancestors." She describes the excitement
generated in her earlier ELL classes as students made their own versions of the
traditional Hmong embroidered story cloth, the "paj ntaub," while tightening
family bonds and learning about their family's history.

A seamstress and poet herself, Stohlmann created the wall hangings that decorate
her classroom and penned a poem about one. The 4-foot-tall banner depicts two
dark-haired girls, barefoot in short-sleeve dresses, reaching to pick oranges.

It shares its title, "Playing in the Sun," with her poem:

But you heard a voice that said, "Come."

"Come to America for freedom and opportunity."

And you came.

And you were my window on the world!

And I was blessed because of you.

And my classroom became "E Pluribus Unum."

Out of many one.

Mary Beth Pottratz can be reached at mpottratz@pioneerpress.com.

JEANETTE STOHLMANN

School: Battle Creek Middle School

City: St. Paul

Accomplishments: Teaching children from different countries and cultures. She
recently published an article in an anthology called "Honoring Our Ancestors,"
where she describes the excitement of her students as they made their own
versions of the traditional Hmong embroidered story cloth.

I did not see you standing there Half a world away ... Playing in the sun.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday

GOVERNOR'S RACE: Pawlenty ad fuels fears, rivals say

BYLINE: PATRICK SWEENEY Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 687 words


Gubernatorial candidates Roger Moe and Tim Penny angrily attacked Republican Tim
Pawlenty on Wednesday for a television ad that warns of terrorists in Minnesota
and promises to print visa expiration dates on driver's licenses issued to
"foreigners."

In response, Pawlenty campaign manager Chris Georgacas defended the ad and said
putting the visa data on licenses "isthe kind of thing that most Minne-sotans
would find eminently reasonable."

With less than two weeks to go before the Nov. 5 election, the 30-second
commercial provoked the most visceral personal attacks of the year by major
candidates for governor.

Moe, the Democratic-Farmer-Labor candidate, accused Pawlenty of using the
tragedy of last year's Sept. 11 attacks for political gain. Penny, the
Independence Party candidate, said the ad paints all visitors to this country,
including legal immigrants, as potential terrorists.

On one level, the back-to-back Capitol news conferences held by Penny and Moe
represented a common campaign strategy: respond to paid advertising with the
free publicity available through news conferences.

On another level, Penny and Moe seemed sincere in their criticism of Pawlenty's
ad as an insult to tens of thousands of recent immigrants to Minnesota.

The irony Wednesday was that the policy Pawlenty endorsed -- printing visa
expiration dates on driver's licenses issued to temporary visitors to this
country -- already is in effect.

Legislators debated the matter this spring but could not agree on a bill
authorizing temporary, color-coded licenses for nonresident visitors. Later,
Public Safety Commissioner Charlie Weaver enacted the expiration-date policy
administratively.

Weaver said the Bush administration supports the move, and a number of other
states are doing it. He said his goal was toencourage local police to -apprehend
people overstaying their visas and turn them over to federal immigration
authorities.

"You could use Sept. 11 as an example," Weaver said. "We know that three at
least, and perhaps five, of the terrorists were in this country on expired
visas. And we know that two of them, including Mohamed Atta, the ringleader,
were pulled over by state troopers."

The Minnesota Civil Liberties Union is challenging Weaver's order in court.

On Monday, Pawlenty said that if he were elected governor, he would push for
legislation to make Weaver's rule permanent. On Tuesday, television stations
across the state began broadcasting the ad.

It begins with a narrator stating that accused al-Qaida operative Zacarias
Moussaoui learned to fly a plane in Minnesota. Then, while the video displays a
map of Minnesota, the narrator intones: "Terrorists are here."

Finally, Pawlenty appears and says, "When foreigners apply for a driver's
license, we're going to print their visa expiration number right on it. So at
any traffic stop our police will know if they are breaking immigration laws. Tim
Penny and Roger Moe are opposed to this. Law enforcement is on my side."

State Rep. Rich Stanek, R-Maple Grove, the sponsor of the bill that proposed the
color-coded licenses, defended Weaver's order as a valid effort to combat
terrorism.

"Polling across the state has shown this to be a 70 to 80 percent winner with
the people," said Stanek, a Pawlenty supporter. "Pawlenty's campaign has done
polling on this, too. That's why they made it an issue."

Moe said he was infuriated by the commercial's reference to "foreigners" and its
appeal to Minnesotans' fears of terrorism. "The issue is using the Sept. 11
terrorism as a campaign tool," he said. "I think that is beyond the ethical
boundaries."

Asked if he considered the ad racist, Moe responded: "I believe this is Tim
Pawlenty's Willie Horton ad -- yes, I do." He was referring to a notorious
political ad that George Bush, the elder, used in 1988 to accuse rival Michael
Dukakis of being soft on crime.

Pawlenty did not respond to requests for comment Wednesday. Georgacas, his
campaign manager, called Moe's comments "despicable."

Patrick Sweeney can be contacted at psweeney@pioneer press.com or (651)
228-5253.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 20, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

CYCLES OF LIFE RULE COUNTIES' GROWTH OR DECLINE
SCOTT COUNTY LEADS IN THE NUMBER OF BIRTHS

BYLINE: Bob Shaw, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 601 words


If Minnesota were a hospital, the metro area counties -- including Scott, Dakota
and Washington -- would be its maternity ward.

Clearwater County would be the morgue.

And the core counties of Hennepin and Ramsey would be the front door.

That's because suburban and metro counties have the highest birth rates from
July 2001 to July 2002, and Clearwater County had the highest mortality rate,
according to U.S. Census figures released last week. The largest number of
foreign immigrants, by far, moved to the two core counties.

The report, which said that counties that are home to third-ring suburbs were
some of the fastest-growing in the country, analyzed reasons for that growth --
births, deaths and immigration, both foreign and domestic.

Michael Munson, planning analyst for the Metropolitan Council, said the ways
that cities grow can signal services needed in the future. A high birth rate
means more schools will be needed, and a large number of international
immigrants can mean a growing need for social services.

If a city is built up, with no vacant land available, it can lose population
when children leave home -- which can result in huge percentage drops in
population through no fault of the city.

"Richfield lost a quarter of its population in a decade that way," Munson said.

The census report showed that every city grew, or shrank, in different ways.

In Scott County, it isn't just the soil that is fertile. There were 16 babies
born per 1,000 -- four times the birth rate in last-place Big Stone County.
Scott County's rate was comparable to other metro counties: Dakota, Wright,
Hennepin and Ramsey, 14; Sherburne, Washington and Anoka, 13.

Hennepin and Ramsey counties, the area's two largest counties, welcomed more
than 23,000 babies into the world in one year.

If you are looking for a place to die, try Clearwater County. The death rate of
16 per 1,000 people is four times that of Scott County, which had the lowest
death rate. The rates in metro counties were: Dakota and Wright, 4; Anoka and
Washington, 5; Isanti and Sherburne, 6; Hennepin, 7; Ramsey, 8.

Munson said high death rates reflect high numbers of elderly people, but
eventually, younger people move in as houses are vacated. "Eventually those
parents will go -- they die, move to Florida or a rest home. Then housing turns
over," Munson said.

But demographers like to look at the "natural increase" -- births minus deaths.
That increase per capita puts Scott County at the top, at 12 per 1,000; followed
by Dakota and Wright, 9; Anoka, 8; Washington, Hennepin and Sherburne, 7; and
Ramsey, 6.

Births are one way to grow; attracting people is another.

Scott County had far more U.S. citizens moving in per capita than any other
county in the state -- about 51 people per 1,000 already there. Sherburne,
Wright and Isanti counties were next highest, all over 34. Most other metro
counties were far below that -- Washington, 6; Anoka, 5; and Dakota, 2.

Hennepin and Ramsey counties had 16 people moving out per 1,000. But they were
stars in attracting foreign immigrants. For every 1,000 people living there
already, they attracted 7 and 6 immigrants, respectively.

Several suburban counties attracted surprisingly high numbers of international
immigrants -- Dakota, 3; Anoka and Scott, 2; and Washington, 1 per 1,000.

That may not sound like much, but consider that 20 rural Minnesota counties
attracted fewer than 10 foreign immigrants and one -- Red Lake County -- didn't
attract a single one.

Bob Shaw can be reached at bshaw@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5433.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MINNESOTA CENSUS

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 22, 2003 Tuesday CITY EDITION

TEMPORARY IMMIGRANTS' DRIVER'S LICENSES
PUBLIC SAFETY REVIVES LICENSE ISSUE
OPPONENTS SAY RULES AN 'END RUN' AROUND LAW

BYLINE: RACHEL E. STASSEN-BERGER, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 571 words


If the Minnesota Legislature doesn't do it, the Department of Public Safety
will.

The department announced Monday it is pursuing permanent rules requiring
temporary immigrants' driver's licenses to be marked with their visa expiration
dates and the words "status check." The rules would allow the department to
cancel visitors' licenses after their visas expire.

Backers call the measures reasonable and sorely needed. Opponents say they may
make immigrants targets and say the rule-making process is an "end run" around
lawmakers.

Sound familiar?

It should. Those rules were already put in place last summer through an
emergency process after lawmakers failed to pass a similar proposal. That
process was challenged in court. Last month, the Minnesota Court of Appeals
struck down parts of the rules, and the state has appealed that decision.

Already about 6,000 people in Minnesota are carrying licenses with the "status
check" designation on them.

Legislation mimicking those rules is in debate again this session. Republican
Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a former House member, said he wanted the rules in law so
that future administrations could not easily rescind them.

The Republican-controlled House backed Pawlenty up on that idea and made the
driver's license issue the first bill introduced. The House overwhelmingly
passed it in January.

The Democrat-controlled Senate -- like last year -- has been far less friendly
to the idea. The measure failed to pass a Senate panel and procedural moves to
bring it up on the Senate floor have failed on party-line votes.

Backers of the bill and the rules say they just want to promulgate regulations
that make sense, make Minnesota's driver's licenses stronger and protect the
state.

"We think it is a very reasonable approach," said Public Safety Commissioner
Rich Stanek.

Democrats -- particularly those representing urban areas -- have said the rules
are unreasonable and would only serve to target immigrants. They have proposed
an alternative: precluding the department from putting special markings on
temporary visitors' licenses but adopting the other proposed measures to tighten
up security on driver's licenses.

"We would prefer the Legislature took action, but absent the Legislature taking
action ... the department could always try the rule-making process," said
Stanek.

That doesn't sit well with some senators.

"It's an end run of the legislative process," said Sen. Dean Johnson,
DFL-Willmar. Yes, he said, the department has every right to try the rule-making
process. But, he added, it would have been more appropriate for the department
to wait until the Legislature completes the session.

Backers of the proposed measures say the Legislature could still override the
rule-making process by passing new laws to deal with the status of temporary
immigrants' driver's licenses.

The first public hearing on the proposed permanent rules isn't until after the
session is supposed to conclude. The constitutional deadline for the legislative
session is May 19. The first hearing on the rules before an administrative law
judge is set for May 22.

After that hearing, it would take about five months to complete the process.

Online: To view the proposed rules and see why department officials believe they
are needed, go to www.dps.state.mn.us/dvs.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 7, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

SARS DEATH RATE MAY WORSEN
EARLY NUMBERS WERE UNDERESTIMATED

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 461 words


Severe acute respiratory syndrome may eventually kill nearly one in five victims
in Hong Kong, suggesting that the new lung infection could be far deadlier than
had been thought, researchers reported Tuesday.

SARS appears to be especially lethal to people ages 60 and older, who could have
only about a 50-50 chance of surviving, researchers found in the first attempt
to calculate trends in the epidemic using hard data and sophisticated
statistical tools.

In Washington, senior administration officials said that as part of the
government's efforts to prevent an epidemic of SARS in the United States, the
Bush administration has authorized immigration and customs agents at the
nation's international airports to use force to detain arriving passengers who
appear to be suffering from symptoms of the deadly disease.

The Homeland Security Department, which is responsible for immigration and
customs inspections at airports and other border crossings, has provided masks
and gloves to thousands of its airport inspectors over the past month as part of
the agency's preparations for trying to stem transmission of the disease.

At special training sessions, officials said, the inspectors have been told that
their screening duties now go far beyond passports and baggage and that they
need to give extra attention to the health of passengers arriving on 51 daily
flights from Asian cities where the outbreak has been most severe, including
Beijing, Hong Kong and Singapore.

Tuesday's higher death-rate projections are based in part on the fact that
people apparently can linger in the hospital far longer before succumbing than
had been thought, which led earlier calculations to underestimate the true
mortality rate, the researchers said.

Previous calculations also appear to have underestimated how long people can
carry the virus before developing symptoms, according to the research.

"This is the most rigorous statistical analysis based on the largest sample that
we've had to date," said Christl Donnelly, a professor of epidemiology at
Imperial College in London who helped conduct the research.

The death rate from SARS has been intensely debated. The World Health
Organization initially estimated that the disease killed less than 4 percent of
those stricken.

The WHO raised that estimate in recent weeks to between 6 percent and 10 percent
as the number of deaths mounted.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates a death rate of
6.6 percent.

The mortality rate will be a key factor in determining the eventual toll from
SARS, the first new disease to emerge in decades that can be spread directly
from one person to another.

The Washington Post and the New York Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 10, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

DEPORTATION CUTS SCHOOL DAYS SHORT
HIGH-SCHOOL SENIOR STILL MIGHT EARN DIPLOMA

BYLINE: JOHN WELBESPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 519 words


As Tchisou Tho prepares for final exams at St. Paul's Como Park High School and
tries to enjoy the excitement of his senior year's final days, his thoughts are
elsewhere.

Next week, his family expects to be deported, the culmination of a long, illegal
stay in the United States.

"We've been going to court for years but I didn't think we were going to be
deported just yet," Tchisou, 18, said Friday during the lunch hour at Como Park.

His parents fled war-torn Laos in the mid-1970s and went to France, where
Tchisou and four of his seven siblings were born. When he was 5, the family came
to the United States on visitors' visas to be with a sick relative. Now, after
almost 13 years of living in the country illegally, the family is out of
options. Ten Tho family members are preparing for deportation next week.

"The family has continually not abided by the orders of the (immigration)
judge," said Tim Counts, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement office in Bloomington.

Until sometime last year, the parents' case was being considered separately from
the children's, Counts said. At one point, Tchisou's parents, Ndoua and Marie,
were asked to leave the country voluntarily before Dec. 15, 2002. An extension
that included the children ran out March 26. They were recently ordered to show
up at immigration offices on or before Wednesday. Como Park's graduation takes
place June 4.

In preparing for deportation, possibly to France, the Tho family has sold their
home on St. Paul's East Side, Tchisou said. Some relatives here will hold onto
their possessions until they can be forwarded.

Tchisou said he has been accepted to the University of Minnesota next year. He
has little idea what he'll do to pursue his education.

He hasn't worked in the United States because he didn't have the needed legal
documents, he said, but hopes to find work in France as an interpreter.

However, he knows he'll have to learn French to complement his fluency in
English and Hmong.

His parents both held jobs in the Twin Cities but quit recently to prepare for
next week, he said. "They're relying a lot on me because I'm the oldest son. I
think I'll be all right if I go because I'm a fast learner."

He's more worried about his parents. "My dad fulfilled his dream here. He bought
a house, got cars, got a job. I don't know if he can do that in France."

At the same time, he's angry with his parents over the family's current
situation. "Sometimes I think if we had stayed over there (in France) and never
come it would be better," he said.

Sharon Eichten, Como Park's principal, has asked Tchisou's teachers to let him
take his final exams early next week so that he can earn needed credits and
still get a diploma after he's deported.

His friends at Como Park -- many of whom just found out about his dilemma in
recent weeks -- are doing what they can.

"They don't want me to go," Tchisou said. "They're trying to spend a lot of time
with me."

John Welbes covers the St. Paul school district. He can be reached at
jwelbes@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2175.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     May 20, 2003 Tuesday MINNESOTA EDITION

RULES TIGHTENED FOR VISITORS WITH VISAS
U.S. WILL SET UP TERRORIST-LIST TRACKING SYSTEM

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOAAssociated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 407 words


WASHINGTON -- Foreign visitors arriving with visas at U.S. airports or seaports
next year will have their travel documents scanned, their fingerprints and
photos taken and their identification checked against terrorist watch lists.

Such a tracking system could have stopped two of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers,
Homeland Security Department undersecretary Asa Hutchinson said Monday as he
gave details of the department's new U.S. Visitor and Immigration Status
Indication Technology, or U.S. VISIT.

The system, which goes into effect Jan. 1, will check the comings and goings of
foreign travelers who arrive in this country carrying visas. Travelers with
visas made up about 60 percent, or 23 million, of foreign visitors to the United
States last year.

Hutchinson said such a system could have caught hijackers Mohammed Atta, who had
overstayed his visa on a previous occasion, and Hani Hanjour, when he failed to
show up at school as required by his student visa.

"Border security can no longer be just a coastline, or a line on the ground
between two nations. It's also a line of information in a computer, telling us
who is in this country, for how long and for what reason," Hutchinson said.

Congress has provided about $380 million for the new system, which will replace
a paper-based system that been highly criticized since Sept. 11, 2001.

Under the U.S. VISIT system, a visa carrier will be required to provide
immigrant and citizenship status, nationality, country of residence and an
address where the visitor will be staying in the United States.

"In 99.9 percent of the cases, the visitor will simply be wished a good day or
sent on their way," Hutchinson said in a speech at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a think tank. "But with that small percentage of hits,
our country will be made much safer and our immigration system will be given a
foundation of integrity that has been lacking for too long."

When the visitor leaves, Hutchinson said, the system will verify the traveler's
departure and identification.

All the hijackers traveled to the United States on visas; two were in the
country illegally at the time of the attacks.

Americans and travelers not required to have visas to enter the United States
will not be subject to the U.S. VISIT system.

The system will later be enhanced, possibly to include iris scans or facial
recognition technology, Hutchinson said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        JUNE 1, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION FORMS ONLINE

SECTION: LOCAL; HAPPENINGS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 126 words


Immigrants can now submit two key applications by filing them electronically,
via any computer that has Internet access.

The e-filing service enables online applicants to avoid having to arrive early
and wait in line for hours at the Bloomington office of the U.S. Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

For now, the applications available to file electronically are Form I-90, to
renew or replace a "green card," and Form 765, to get work authorization.

Those who use the new service will have to schedule an appointment to meet
immigration officials to submit a photo, signature and fingerprint,
electronically. Filing instructions and information for e-filing will be posted
at the immigration bureau Web site at www.bcis.gov.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       JUNE 3, 2003 Tuesday CITY EDITION

POST-9;
11 DETENTIONS CALLED 'UNDULY HARSH'
REPORT SAYS FOREIGNERS ENDURED BRUTALITY AND DELAYS

BYLINE: SHANNON McCAFFREY, Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 727 words


WASHINGTON -- Foreigners rounded up in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks spent months in jail without knowing why, encountered
obstacles in meeting with their lawyers and were abused physically and verbally,
according to a report Monday by the Justice Department's Inspector General.

The report criticized the FBI for making few attempts to weed out immigrants who
were guilty simply of overstaying their visas from those with terrorist ties. Of
the 762 detainees, only alleged Sept. 11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui is
facing a terrorism charge, and he was taken into custody before the attacks.

Some detainees were locked in their cells for 23 hours a day and put in
handcuffs and leg irons each time they were moved. For months, their cells were
lit for 24 hours a day. Guards taunted some, warning them that they would "die
here." They were given only one call a week to a lawyer.

Inspector General Glenn Fine called the conditions "unduly harsh."

Justice Department officials defended the detentions Monday, saying the measures
were necessary.

"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the
American public from further terrorist attacks," said spokeswoman Barbara
Comstock.

Comstock said several federal courts have ruled that the detentions are fully
within the law.

Federal agents investigating the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon who stumbled upon illegal immigrants took them into custody for
violating immigration laws, a civil crime. The government has refused to release
their names, prompting several lawsuits.

Human rights groups, which have been sharply critical of the detentions, hailed
the report Monday, saying it shed light on conditions the government has sought
to keep secret.

The 198-page report focused on detainees in the federal Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn and the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, N.J. -- facilities
that housed the majority of the Sept. 11 detainees. Inmates at both had
complained of mistreatment.

Fine said the Justice Department faced enormous challenges in responding to the
deadly terrorist attacks but said his investigation found "significant problems
in the way the detainees were handled."

Some detainees were in jail for more than a month before they were told what
they had been charged with, the report found. Immigration authorities typically
try to provide such notice within 72 hours.

Bureau of Prison officials imposed a communications blackout on the prisoners in
the weeks immediately following the attacks. But even when it was lifted,
communication was difficult.

Family members and lawyers who sought to find a detainee at the Metropolitan
Detention Center in Brooklyn were often told -- erroneously -- that the person
they were seeking was not housed there.

Even those detainees willing to be deported had to wait for weeks and sometimes
months. It initially was thought that FBI background checks would take just
days. Instead they took an average of 80 days. The report blamed the FBI not
providing adequate staff.

A senior federal law enforcement official, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said the FBI was intent on making sure no one was released who later turned out
to be dangerous.

"These aren't one-hour crime TV shows. These are serious investigations," the
official said.

The official described some of the detainees. One was a roommate of one of the
hijackers; another admitted training in a terrorist camp in Afghanistan; another
traveled to New York days before Sept. 11 with a pilot's license and a fourth
worked in a store where 25 photographs of the World Trade Center turned up.

In Brooklyn, where 84 detainees were kept, evidence indicated a "pattern of
verbal and physical abuse" of the detainees, particularly right after the
attacks.

Inmates reported being slammed against the wall by guards, an allegation
corroborated by one guard interviewed by investigators.

No criminal charges have been filed against guards, but one case was dropped
after a guard resigned.

Of those detained, 505 have been deported. Others are awaiting deportation or
have been charged with non-terrorism crimes, according to the Justice
Department.

Pakistanis made up 33 percent of those detained, the largest percentage.
Egyptians were second at 14 percent.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Moussaoui request for access endorsed: A federal judge found that
testimony from a captured al-Qaida member could undermine the government's
prosecution of Zacarias Moussaoui, above, court documents say. Story, Page 6A

GRAPHIC: Photo

Zacarias Moussaoui

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 5, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

POST 9;
11 ROUND UPS
ABUSES OF IMMIGRANTS SHOW RISKS TO FREEDOMS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 377 words


The report of the U.S. Justice Department's inspector general about gross abuses
of immigrants rounded up after Sept. 11 tells tales at once shocking and
familiar. Racism, xenophobia and disregard for the rule of law recur as ugly
motifs on the story clothe of the American experience. The internal
investigation concluded that authorities trampled on the civil rights of hundred
of immigrants hauled into custody in the New York area, denying them access to
legal counsel and holding many of them for months without charges. For the
Justice Department to dismiss the conclusions, as it did through its key
spokesman, is an affront to all Americans.

The inspector general's investigation also revealed that in some cases, 9/11
detainees were shackled and held in cells that were lighted 24 hours a day. Of
all these people taken in by the terrorism dragnets studied by the inspector
general, only one -- Zacarias Moussaoui -- has been charged with a crime. And he
was in custody before the attacks.

The report on these outrages does a service with its candor. It should give
every American pause about what happens when we surrender our most important
defenses of freedom to fear and prejudice. This has happened before and could
happen again -- ask a Japanese-American who was interred during World War II or
someone caught in the McCarthy witch hunts or whose elders were deported after
the Palmer Raids.

These offenses keep happening because good people stay silent and let the brown
boot tactics loose in our land. Any resident of the United States who read this
report of the 9/11 detainees and the official reaction of the Justice Department
to it should feel a chill running up the backbone. Department spokeswoman
Barbara Comstock called the report "fully consistent with what courts have ruled
over and over -- that our actions are fully within the law and necessary to
protect the American people. We make no apologies for finding every legal way
possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks."

This denial mentality foreshadows recurrence of such ugly motifs in the American
tale. Next time, it could be you caught in a frenzied reaction that assumes you
are guilty but refuses to let you prove your innocence.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 12, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION ISSUE IS THERE FOR THE TAKING, AS LIEBERMAN SEES

BYLINE: RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR.Syndicated Columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 800 words


You snooze, you lose. If you don't close the deal, you open a window for the
competition. It's true in business, and in the world of international diplomacy.

Exhibit A: The Bush administration's bungled dealings with Mexico over
immigration. It has failed so dramatically in not achieving an immigration
agreement with our southern neighbor that it created an opening for any
Democratic presidential candidate smart enough to take advantage.

That could be Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecticut. Now that the administration
seems to have lost interest in crafting an accord that pairs Mexican workers
with U.S. employers, or even in returning to the negotiation table, Lieberman
sees an opportunity to score political points at the president's expense.

Not that Mexican President Vicente Fox hasn't deserved a cold shoulder from the
administration. Fox was wrong not to immediately come to the aid of the United
States after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Mexico could have offered
to increase its oil shipments to the United States or, as Britain and other
countries did, send troops to Afghanistan. Later, Fox compounded the error by
coming out against the U.S.-led war against Iraq. And then recently he told the
Washington Post that the United States and Mexico have "co-responsibilities" for
the illegal immigration problem.

Fox forgets one thing: This "problem" would hardly exist were it not for
Mexico's failure to provide economic opportunity for its people, instead of
simply treating the United States like one gigantic Western Union office.

Still, where the administration went wrong was in allowing its disappointment
with Fox to undermine its own policy objectives with regard to immigration. It
let anger, pride and hurt feelings get in the way of its own pre-Sept. 11 pledge
to deliver a meaningful immigration agreement with a country on which millions
of U.S. employers are now hopelessly dependent for cheap and readily available
labor. The country needs leadership on this issue, and if Bush doesn't provide
it, someone else will.

Such as a certain Connecticut Democrat. On a conference call last week with
members of the Hispanic media, Lieberman charged that Bush had dropped the ball
on getting an immigration accord. He said, if elected president, he would invite
Fox to the White House and restart the negotiations. He also said he supported a
guest-worker program and "earned amnesty" for some unspecified number of illegal
immigrants already in the United States.

Then Lieberman played his ace, implying that forsaking a deal would threaten
homeland security. After all, he said, how much sense does it make to have
millions of people wandering throughout the United States with no documents and
no way of tracking them?

This is not an original argument. Mexican Interior Minister Santiago Creel said
the same thing a few weeks ago in San Diego. Still, it is striking that the line
has now been taken up by a top-tier Democratic presidential candidate. For that,
Lieberman deserves credit.

Of course, Al Gore's 2000 running mate is after more than that. In a manner of
speaking, Lieberman wants to have Fox's endorsement, which he hopes to churn
into Hispanic votes next year.

Not so fast. The assumption that one could lead to the other ignores some
important facts. First, not all U.S. Hispanics are of Mexican descent. A little
over half are, but Fox's blessing won't matter much to the Puerto Rican medical
student in Massachusetts, the Cuban-American teacher in Florida or the
Salvadoran restaurateur in Maryland.

Next, even within the subset of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans, such an
endorsement would carry the most weight with Mexican immigrants, who, if they
aren't citizens, can't vote anyway. Lastly, while many Mexican-Americans may
re-spect Fox for restoring genuine democracy to the land of their forebears by
ousting a political party that ruled Mexico for 71 years, that fact alone may
not influence what they do in the voting booth.

And yet, focusing on Fox and Mexico and immigration reform could still pay
political dividends for Lieberman. Mexican-Americans may look favorably upon a
candidate who goes to the trouble to include such things in his agenda for the
nation. That's how it is with Bush and Spanish. It doesn't matter how well he
speaks it. What many Mexican-Americans seem to appreciate is that he makes the
effort.

For whatever reason, Bush stopped making the effort to get an immigration deal
with Mexico. As a former Texas governor, this was his issue lock, stock and
barrel. Now he risks the humiliation of losing it to a Connecticut Yankee.

Navarrette (e-mail: rnavarette @dallasnews.com) is an editorial columnist for
the Dallas Morning News. Distributed by the Washington Post Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 13, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

STEPPING OFF THE CORPORATE LADDER
"I WANTED TO TRY WORKING AT THE GROUND LEVEL OF A COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION, TO
WORK CLOSER WITH THE SOMALI AND OTHER IMMIGRANT COMMUNITIES."

BYLINE: SHERYL JEAN, Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 839 words


Hussein Samatar came to the United States as a Somali refugee nine years ago
with no money and a limited grasp of English.

He overcame obstacles that face many new immigrants to buy a house, earn an MBA
and enter the world of finance. He took a job at Wells Fargo & Co. and began
climbing the corporate ladder as a star of the bank's efforts to generate
business in the area's growing minority communities.

Then, earlier this year, Samatar got down off that ladder to take a job at a
nonprofit.

Now, he's a senior lender and special projects manager at Neighborhood
Development center, a nonprofit group in St. Paul that helps urban immigrants
and low-income residents start businesses.

"I wanted to try working at the ground level of a community organization, to
work closer with the Somali and other immigrant communities," Samatar said. "I
really feel at home. I'm where I belong."

Competition is intense among banks and other lenders to reach immigrants -- such
as Hmong, Latinos and Somalis -- in the Twin Cities. These large, burgeoning
communities are demanding traditional and alternative financial services at a
time when banks face difficulties in growing other parts of their business.

And competition for employees who can reach those communities also has been
keen. When Samatar first talked with NDC, president Mike Temali told him he was
crazy.

"I didn't take him seriously," Temali said. "I couldn't believe he would take
that step. We said, 'You have a family and two kids. What are you, nuts?' "

Although Samatar said his salary is comparable to what he received at Wells
Fargo, he lost some attractive benefits and those potential opportunities to
rise in a national company. Wells Fargo declined to comment, citing a policy of
not commenting about former employees.

Samatar, who keeps a Wells Fargo paper clip dispenser in his office, thinks he
can "make a difference" in his new job.

"I hope people say 20 years from now that Somalis had a contribution to our
society," he said.

As a small-business lender, Samatar managed $4 million in loans and $15 million
in deposits at a Wells Fargo bank branch on West Lake Street in Minneapolis.
Immigrants accounted for about 10 percent of his customers. In comparison, NDC
has provided roughly $3.3 million in financing to 171 businesses, mostly
minority-owned businesses, since it began in 1993.

"I'm not interested in the dollar signs, whether it's a $500,000 loan or a $1
million," Samatar said. "It's the story behind the business that interests me."

Banks and other lenders aggressively seek minority employees to connect with
immigrants, many of whom aren't familiar with the U.S. financial process.

Last fall, NDC also hired Fu Hang, a Hmong commercial lender at U.S. Bank.

"These are two guys who are highly skilled, upwardly mobile bank lenders and
extremely connected to the community," Temali said about Hang and Samatar.

"We've definitely found that you have to have a commitment in hiring minority
employees," said Steve Erdall, chief executive of Western Bank, which has
offices in Hmong neighborhoods in St. Paul and has nine Hmong employees. "We
realize to serve our customers better we have to have a number of employees who
are Hmong and who understand their language and customs."

When Samatar, 35, emigrated to the United States, via Kenya, he landed in New
York. In 1995, he moved to Minneaplis to be near family. He's run full speed
ever since.

Armed with an economics degree from Somali National University, his first job
was a temporary worker for an equipment financing unit of Wells Fargo. He landed
a full-time job there, took night classes at the University of St. Thomas to
earn his MBA and entered a bank-training program in 2000. He speaks three
languages and is learning a fourth: Spanish.

Last year, Samatar became a U.S. citizen and voted for the first time.

Samatar believes his experiences help him relate to other immigrants, no matter
where they are from.

He wants to translate his skills into economic development. Earlier this month,
Samatar started the African Development Center, a new resource and training
center for Somalis and others who want to form a business in Minneapolis'
Cedar-Riverside neighborhood.

He regularly visits customers in the Cedar-Riverside area, where he first lived
in 1995. When he walks into a neighborhood restaurant, everyone knows him and
wants to shake his hand.

Somalis may know him from Somali Voices, a weekly public affairs radio show on
KFAI that he started in 1998 and co-hosts.

Samatar gave Aden Aden, one of the owners of the year-old Riverside Restaurant
on Minneapolis' West Bank, business advice and connected him with the landlord
of his building.

"He is someone who can see underneath, see behind and figure out how to solve
the problems of a person," Aden said. "He's connecting the system with the
people."

Sheryl Jean covers financial services and can be reached at
sjean@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5576.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS

Hussein Samatar, right, seated at the Casablanca Restaurant, is a Somali banker
who recently left a position at Wells Fargo to join Neighborhood Development
Center, a nonprofit group in St. Paul that helps urban immigrants and low-income
residents start businesses.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 28, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFING

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 991 words


CAR MURDERER GETS 50 YEARS

FORT WORTH, Texas -- A jury sentenced Chante Mallard to 50 years in prison
Friday for leaving an accident victim to die a slow death while lodged in the
broken windshield of her car. Mallard, 27, could have received anywhere from
five years probation to life in prison for murdering Gregory Biggs. It took the
jury less than an hour Thursday to convict Mallard, who after a night of
drinking and using drugs struck Biggs, 37, with her car about 3 a.m. on Oct. 26,
2001. She drove home with the man crumpled in the windshield and left him in her
garage to die.

Netherlands initiates deportation centers

AMSTERDAM, Netherlands -- The Netherlands on Friday opened the first of two
"deportation centers," where hundreds of illegal immigrants and rejected asylum
seekers -- including women and children -- will be detained pending expulsion.
The deportation centers are fiercely contested by human rights groups and
refugee organizations who say they will be little different from prisons. A
first site for nearly 200 internees was opened at Rotterdam Airport and a
second, with a capacity of 100, will be opened at Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport
later this year, according to a statement from the Immigration Service. The two
facilities are part of a plan called "The Way to a Safer Society," created under
Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende.

Al-Qaida surrender may lead to others

JIDDAH, Saudi Arabia -- Saudi authorities expressed confidence Friday that they
would capture more key suspects after the surrender of the alleged mastermind of
last month's deadly al-Qaida suicide attacks in Riyadh. Ali Abd al-Rahman
al-Faqasi al-Ghamdi turned himself in Thursday at the home of deputy interior
minister Prince Mohammed bin Nayaf. "This is a key figure. He's a member of the
leadership. This will hopefully lead to the arrest of other members and to
important information, such as who is financing them," an Interior Ministry
official said of al-Ghamdi's surrender. He said al-Ghamdi was being interrogated
about the "whereabouts of other terror cell suspects, who are financing these
people, and what plots they had planned."

Online petitioners ask bishop to resign

DALLAS -- The bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Dallas, under fire for his
handling of the sexual abuse crisis in the church, has become the target of an
online petition urging him to resign. Prominent local laypeople unveiled a Web
site Thursday inviting priests, nuns and other Catholics to add their name to a
petition asking Bishop Charles Grahmann to step down. "We are soliciting the
support of many Catholics who feel that they don't have a voice on this issue,"
Bill McCormack, one of more than three dozen lay people organized under the name
Concerned Catholics, said in the Dallas Morning News.

O'Hare runway safety questioned

CHICAGO -- Air traffic controllers at O'Hare International Airport raised safety
concerns following five runway mishaps, including one in which a jumbo jet going
100 mph burned out its brakes trying to avoid a small plane. The controllers
attribute the problems, which all occurred since April 1, to the relocation of a
small-plane service center and the closure of an airport catering to small
planes. Small planes now must cross two runways to get to their take-off
destination from the service center. Signature Flight Support moved in March to
make room for a gate expansion, which has since been delayed.

Affirmative action restored in Texas

DALLAS -- Six years after dropping affirmative action in favor of a 10 percent
solution, Texas' public university system will work to restore race as a factor
in admissions, with the blessing of the U.S. Supreme Court. Larry Faulkner,
president of the University of Texas' 50,000-student flagship campus at Austin,
said the changes could be in place there this fall for applicants for the 2004-5
school year. The other schools in the 170,000-student UT system would probably
follow Austin's lead. Affirmative action "gets to the heart of what we try to
accomplish as an institution," Faulkner said. "It's important for us to have
strong representation here of students from all sectors of society."

Cuba intervenes in custody battle

HAVANA -- An American woman left Cuba with her son and daughter Friday after
Fidel Castro's government intervened in an international custody battle and
arrested the children's father. A government statement said the family was
allowed to depart after officials determined that Cornelia Streeter had legal
custody of the U.S.-born children. "This morning, Ms. Streeter left with her two
children by airplane, bound for Boston," the statement said. Streeter, of
Topsfield, Mass., was reunited with her children Wednesday night. Cuban
authorities earlier arrested her ex-husband, Anwar Wissa, and placed the former
couple's children, Henry, 9, and Victoria, 7, in protective custody.

Abuse victim better after nearly drowning

BOSTON -- An alleged sex abuse victim whose lawsuit fueled the current crisis in
the Roman Catholic Church has been released from a hospital after nearly
drowning in a river, his attorney said. Patrick McSorley, 28, was found
face-down in the Neponset River on June 18 after he became separated from a
friend. He was initially in critical condition and on life support, but his
condition improved during the week.

Failed TV signal thief to pay $180 million

TAMPA, Fla. -- A man who admitted scheming to steal satellite television signals
has been ordered to pay $180 million in restitution in $500-a-month installments
-- a payment plan that would take 30,000 years to fulfill. Steven Frazier, 28,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy in a scheme to manufacture and sell devices to
decode satellite TV signals and allow people to get premium service for free. He
also received a five-year prison sentence. The scheme was thwarted when federal
agents arrested Frazier last fall.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Bishop Grahmann

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 20, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ARE FINDING JOBS IN A WOBBLY ECONOMY
WORKERS FROM MEXICO TAKE LOW-PAYING JOBS AND HELP SERVE GROWING HISPANIC
POPULATION

BYLINE: DIANNE SOLIS, Dallas Morning News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 869 words


Meet Jose Carrillo.

The 29-year-old laborer, newly arrived from Mexico, is part of a surprising
statistic: A wave of foreign-born workers have found work in the United States
even as the nation's economy struggles through a jobless recovery.

Labor researchers say the number of employed foreign-born workers rose by
600,000 in the two years ended last December. For immigrants, particularly the
steady supply of Mexicans, there seem to be jobs.

"The more the economy declines, the more work for the undocumented," said Joel
Magallan, a Jesuit brother who runs a social service agency in Manhattan for
immigrants.

That's because they work for such low wages, and, thus, can help keep a business
afloat, he said. And the growing Hispanic population creates a need for
Spanish-speaking employees to serve them, creating even more business energy.

As for Carrillo, the new job with a Brooklyn landscaping firm is a little
pesado, a little rough. But he's paid in cash and gets seven times more than he
did back home picking onions. Ricardo Guerrero, a 35-year-old Mexican immigrant,
said: "People would rather die in the passage to the United States than stay in
Mexico. Things are just too hard there."

Guerrero, who now goes by "Ricky," makes his living in rural East Texas, where
pastureland stretches to the horizon and making a living is tightly tied to the
temperamental ways of Mother Nature. Guerrero is a farm foreman, and the
opportunities to hire more Mexicans are many, he said.

His own job calls for 10-hour days, five days a week, and a half-day's labor on
Saturday and Sunday. Guerrero has no complaints. He said he strongly believes
his three children and wife have a better life in Texas than they did back in
Apaseo el Grande in the central Mexican state of Guanajuato.

Two months ago, his 26-year-old cousin made his first journey from Guanajuato to
the United States, where he quickly found work in farm labor amid the fresh
produce stands and small-town junk shops near Canton, Texas. The cousin left
behind his wife and children but brought five other Mexican workers with him.
All found jobs, Guerrero said.

The increase in the number of Hispanics employed has resulted in an increase in
another statistic -- at least in part. Worker remittances -- economists' jargon
for money sent back to the homeland -- jumped 27 percent for Mexico in the first
four months of this year, thanks to migrants such as Felipe Torres.

Torres, 29, arrived in Dallas several months ago and landed a job in
construction. Every two weeks, he sends $100 to $200 to his relatives in the
central Mexican state of San Luis Potosi.

Torres said it's difficult to send home a set amount because sometimes he makes
less than minimum wage.

The jump is particularly noteworthy because first-quarter numbers for money
transfers are traditionally the weakest. Remittances went up a whopping 49
percent between 2000 and 2002. If current flows continue, the amount could
officially exceed $11 billion.

Mexico's economy contracted slightly in the first quarter, raising fears of a
double-dip recession. The initial boost from the nearly 10-year-old North
American Free Trade Agreement has faded -- and with it the promise by
then-President Carlos Salinas that Mexico would export products, not people.

Immigrants such as Torres say they would benefit from an immigration accord
legalizing the flow of workers to the United States.

But an immigration accord between the United States and Mexico seems politically
unlikely in the near future, say many analysts on both sides of the Rio Grande.

In fact, the statistical flows are reigniting an old debate that occurs in a
weak economy: Do illegal immigrants take jobs from the native-born? And should
the United States better control illegal and legal immigration when so many of
the native-born are without work?

"I think immigration is a great thing, but I think we have to do it in a smart
way," said Paul Harrington of Northeastern University's Center for Labor Market
Studies.

At Northeastern, researchers say immigration is going up, despite the 2001
terrorist attacks and the recession that followed. They cite as reasons the
rising employment of the foreign-born and Hispanics.

"There seems to be no evidence that it has slowed and even some evidence that it
has accelerated," Harrington said.

And yet Hispanics have been hurt significantly by the 2001 recession. The
national unemployment rate climbed to 6.1 percent in May. Hispanic unemployment
has been rising higher, hitting 8.2 percent in May. That's up from the lowest
level of 5.1 percent for Hispanics in October 2000 when the economy was still
booming.

So how can there be both rising employment and rising unemployment for the same
group of people?

It happens when the labor force surges faster than the number of unemployed
people, Harrington said. That has him questioning U.S. immigration policy.

"Here we have this economic downturn and yet there is no safety valve to
decreasing the flow of immigrants," said Harrington, whose father is an Irish
immigrant.

"You cannot avoid the conclusion that there is substantial displacement going on
here."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      July 23, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

AFRICA, ASIA TO SPARK WORLD POPULATION BOOM
U.S. PROJECTED TO GROW WITH IMMIGRATION, BUT EUROPE WILL DECLINE

BYLINE: GENARO C. ARMASAssociated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 730 words


WASHINGTON -- Africa's population could soar by more than 1 billion over the
next half-century, further straining food and water supplies and social services
in areas already struggling, according to a report Tuesday.

Political unrest and war have limited the ability of many developing nations to
promote family planning and literacy programs, said Carl Haub, author of the
study released Tuesday from the Population Reference Bureau, a private research
group.

In many of these countries, big families are the cultural norm. African
governments, especially those of sub-Saharan nations, will need to create
millions of jobs and improve health care facilities and schools, the report
said.

"Africa is going to have a hard time taking on another 1 billion people," Haub
said. "How do you raise living standards, how do you educate, improve health
care, and how do you battle AIDS at the same time?"

The latest edition of the "World Population Data Sheet" estimates the global
population will rise 46 percent between now and 2050 to about 9 billion, a level
also predicted by the United Nations and other groups.

European nations, more industrialized and prosperous, are expected to lose
population because of falling birth rates and low immigration.

The U.S. population is expected to grow at about the same rate to 422 million in
2050, paced by a stable birth rate and high levels of immigration.

But most of the world's growth will be in developing nations. India's population
is estimated to grow 52 percent to 1.6 billion by 2050, when it will surpass
China as the world's largest country.

The population in neighboring Pakistan will grow to 349 million, up 134 percent
in 2050. Triple-digit growth rates also are forecast for Iraq, Afghanistan and
Nepal.

Africa is supposed to more than double in population to 1.9 billion by
midcentury.

The population in Congo, which has been torn by civil war, could more than
triple during the same period to 181 million. And Africa's most populous
country, Nigeria, could more than double to 307 million.

"The governments don't have the wherewithal to fund the (family planning)
programs. And any family planning program is interrupted by political strife,"
Haub said.

Growth in Africa comes despite the world's highest rates of HIV and AIDS
infection.

Extreme poverty and environmental devastation have left billions of people
without adequate food or water, the United Nations said in a report last year.

That report found that global water use had increased sixfold over the last
century, at twice the rate of population growth. Inefficient agricultural
systems were the greatest drain on the world's freshwater supplies.

The epidemic is worst in Botswana. The country's population is expected to
decline 43 percent by 2050 to just under 1 million.

Meanwhile, food consumption was expected to increase although the capacity to
produce enough food was diminishing, especially in developing countries, the
U.N. report found.

With demands likely to grow, African governments and relief organizations must
place increased emphasis on agricultural programs, said Polly Erickson, who
works on agricultural development programs for Catholic Relief Services.

"The problem isn't too many people. It's the lack of solid socioeconomic
development policies," said Scott Weinberg, director of governmental affairs for
the Population Research Institute, which opposes population controls.

The United States is among the few industrialized nations growing, while
Europe's population is expected to decrease 9 percent to 664 million.

A study in the journal Science last year said European countries reached a
turning point in 2000, when the number of children there dropped to a level that
statistically ensured there will be fewer parents in the next generation than in
the current one.

BOOMING WORLD

The 10 largest countries by population in millions in 2003 and 2050, according
to estimates from the Population Reference Bureau:

2003 -- China, 1,289; India, 1,069; United States, 292; Indonesia, 220; Brazil,
176; Pakistan, 149; Bangladesh, 147; Russia, 146; Nigeria, 134; Japan, 128.

2050 -- India,1,628; China, 1,394; United States, 422; Pakistan, 349; Indonesia,
316; Nigeria, 307; Bangladesh, 255; Brazil, 221; Dem. Rep. of Congo, 181;
Ethiopia, 173. -- Associated Press

Online: www.prb.org

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       AUGUST 1, 2003 Friday CITY EDITION

COLLEGES READY TO TRACK FOREIGN STUDENTS
FEDERAL REPORTING DEADLINE IS TODAY

BYLINE: Kristina Torres, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 348 words


Minnesota public higher education officials expect to meet today's federal
deadline requiring Internet-based tracking of all foreign college students.

The Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, or SEVIS, replaces an old
paper process used by the former Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Legislation for such a computerized tracking system was first introduced in
1996, but it wasn't until 2001 that Congress provided $36.8 million for the
changes as part of the USA Patriot Act.

Moving to the new system has been rocky at times, but Nancy Conner, spokeswoman
for the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system, said all 33
institutions in MnSCU expected to meet the final deadline to have information on
all foreign students entered online. The University of Minnesota's Kay Thomas,
director of international student and scholar services, had a Thursday afternoon
date to toast with champagne the U's final system entry.

Nationally, the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- a branch of the
Homeland Security Department that now oversees SEVIS -- said in a release that
while 5,937 schools are SEVIS-certified, another 1,271 await final
certification.

The federal effort to track about a million foreign students each year has been
under heavy scrutiny since Sept. 11, 2001. Some of those involved in the
terrorist attacks entered the United States on student visas.

SEVIS at a glance

-- Unlike the old system, schools must report a student's failure to enroll.
Schools also must report such information as the start date of a student's next
semester, the dropping of a full course of study without approval, any
disciplinary action taken because of a crime and earlier-than-expected
graduation.

-- It is Internet-based, which should speed up information exchanges among
schools and the government.

-- It is expected to reduce visa fraud. Under the old system, student visa forms
have been stolen and used to support fraudulent visa applications.

Kristina Torres can be reached at ktorres@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2120.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MINNESOTA HIGHER EDUCATION

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 10, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

DETAINEE'S TWO-YEAR PLIGHT REPRESENTS NEW REALITY AFTER SEPT. 11

BYLINE: RICHARD A. SERRANO, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 910 words


BATAVIA, N.Y. -- Nearly two years after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, a time when
most foreign detainees have been sent home, Ansar Mahmood is desperate to remain
in America.

A hard worker who delivered pizzas in upstate New York, he saved his money and
supported his needy family in Pakistan. Like many immigrants, he found promise
in the American dream.

But then he became one of countless Muslim immigrants picked up in a government
dragnet. His life fell apart three weeks after the attacks, when he was
suspected of being a terrorist because he had wanted his picture taken on a
scenic Hudson Valley overlook that happened to be near a local water plant.

He was cleared of any terrorist intentions. But like most of the detainees, the
government found other reasons to hold him -- he was convicted on a felony
charge of helping friends who came here illegally from Pakistan. So far, he has
served nearly 19 months while authorities seek to deport him.

Mahmood's plight represents a post-Sept. 11 reality in America. Immigrants often
face difficulties. But now it is all the harder to chase prosperity, even for
people like Mahmood who came here with his papers in order, worked long hours to
gain a foothold and still was able to send much of his money to his family back
home.

"These days, all rules go out the window," said Sareer Fazili, a fellow Muslim
and Rochester, N.Y., lawyer who heads a legal defense fund for immigrants.

Federal immigration officials, however, said they are merely following the law.

"He's a felon. ... We have to detain him," said Amy Otten, spokeswoman for the
federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Mahmood's continued incarceration is his own doing. He and his lawyers continue
to file legal challenges to hold off his deportation and, they hope, win his
release from the Federal Detention Facility here so he can return to work. He is
not eligible for bail.

But the government, noting that Mahmood is a convicted felon, argues that his
deportation is automatic. In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, with more
stringent rules placed on immigrants, the government is not willing to bend that
this Pakistani must leave.

His offense is one that many legal observers said often was not prosecuted
before terrorism became a concern. Even Otten acknowledged that Mahmood's crime
might appear insignificant in the current atmosphere of terror alerts and
sleeper cells. But, she said, the government takes immigration violations much
more seriously now.

"The world has changed since Sept. 11," she said.

According to government records, the average Sept. 11 detainee was held about 80
days before being released by federal law enforcement officials. Mahmood has
served seven times as long; many believe he may be the nation's longest held
Sept. 11 detainee.

He turned 26 on Monday, his second birthday behind bars.

In the late 1990s, like many poor Pakistanis, Mahmood began applying for entry
into the United States. On his second try, he was granted a visa.

In April 2000 he flew to New York City, staying in Brooklyn for two weeks before
moving to Salisbury, Md., and taking a job at a pizza restaurant. He worked in
the kitchen and, after raising enough money to buy a 1992 Toyota, began
delivering pizzas.

In early 2001, he moved to the Domino's Pizza in Greenport, N.Y.

Mahmood said his sisters wanted him to send photographs. So he bought a
throw-away camera and, on Oct. 10, 2001, drove up near the Catskills, where he
asked park rangers to snap his photo.

At the time, not only was law enforcement rounding up suspected foreign
terrorists, but the country also was in the throes of the anthrax scare.

The guards noticed that Mahmood was posing not far from a city water plant. They
called the police. The police called the FBI.

He was arrested. Mahmood said he spent the night at police headquarters, agents
asking him over and over about the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and the
anthrax-laden letters mailed to Florida; Washington, D.C., and New York. They
had photographs, too, and asked him about men he assumed were the Sept. 11
hijackers.

Mahmood let them search his car and apartment, and agents said they found
evidence that he had helped a man and woman from Pakistan. They said he had
helped find them jobs, registered a car for them in his name, put their
apartment lease under his name and paid their first month's rent.

A month earlier, he told the agents, he had learned the couple was in the
country illegally.

He was charged with harboring illegals, a statute usually used against large
immigrant smuggling operations. But the accusation against Mahmood was just a
page long; the offense a single count. Nevertheless, it was a felony.

He served six days in jail. Like the vast majority of foreigners picked up after
the attacks, he was never determined to have had ties to terrorism.

On Oct. 16, 2001, he pleaded guilty in federal court -- advised by his public
defender that a conviction likely would mean deportation. But Mahmood at the
time was struggling with his English, and he had said he wanted out of jail and
to return to work to make money for his family. A court transcript bears out his
difficulties with the language.

The judge released him on bond, and Mahmood returned to the Domino's. On Jan.
25, 2002, he was sentenced to the six days he had already served. That same day,
he was detained and ordered deported.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     August 16, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

HUNDREDS VISIT MOBILE MEXICAN CONSULATE
LOCAL IMMIGRANTS GET ID CARDS

BYLINE: Toni Coleman, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 559 words


The line started forming Friday at 2 a.m.

Hundreds of Mexicans living in Minnesota have been congregating outside St.
Paul's Church on the Hill for the past two days to visit the mobile Mexican
consulate, which is issuing passports and identification cards to Mexican
nationals through today.

The temporary operation allows Mexican families to skip the costly and
time-consuming trip to Chicago, the nearest Mexican consular office, to get the
identification paperwork needed to open a bank account or conduct other
transactions.

The consular identification cards, called "matriculas consular," are important
to immigrants who don't qualify for official U.S. identification because they
open the door to services that require valid proof of identity.

The consulate has been issuing about 300 IDs and passports a day.

"It's very important to have these documents. We don't count without
identification. It's a huge problem because you can't open a checking account,"
said one woman in line who arrived at the Summit Avenue church at 4:30 a.m.
Friday. The woman came to the Twin Cities from Mexico a year ago.

"To get a driver's license, you must show you are legally in this country," said
Mexican Consul Felipe Cuellar, who is here from the Chicago office. "This
document is not to prove they are in this country legally. It's to prove they're
Mexican nationals and their address."

Applicants must have a birth certificate, a utility bill to show an address and
some other form of photo identification.

The matricula consular does not establish immigration status and is not valid
for gaining employment in the United States, said Tim Counts, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. People with dual citizenship may
choose to get Mexican identification.

For someone to hold Mexican identification "doesn't mean they're in the country
illegally. But for those who are, it allows them to do things they wouldn't be
able to do without proper identification," he said.

The card's acceptance within public and private sectors varies widely. Some
governmental agencies, banks and schools accept the ID, while others don't. The
Bush administration is developing a policy on the acceptable uses of
identification cards issued by foreign governments. Counts couldn't say how soon
the new rules will be developed.

The demand for documentation illustrates the need for Mexico to open a permanent
consulate in Minnesota, said the Rev. Joel Alnono, a priest at La Mision el
Santo Nino Jesus, the Hispanic Episcopal congregation that shares space with St.
Paul's Church on the Hill. The church is hosting the consulate.

Census figures show nearly 100,000 Minnesotans are of Mexican descent, including
the 39,330 who are foreign-born.

A three-day visit by the Mexican consulate is insufficient, and other Latin
American governments should also establish consular services in Minnesota, he
said.

Cuellar said Mexican officials are evaluating a Minnesota office, but it could
be two to three years before a final decision. The mobile consulate will be in
Winona from Aug. 28-30, although a location has not been determined.

FYI

For more information, visit the Web site of the Mexican consulate in Chicago at
www.consulmexchicago.com/.

Toni Coleman can be reached at tcoleman@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5442.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ST. PAUL

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCOTT TAKUSHI, PIONEER PRESS

Ernesto Cabanas, center, of Bloomington stands in line to have his passport
renewed Friday at St. Paul's Church on the Hill on Summit Avenue.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 19, 2003 Tuesday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANT TOTALS HIT NEW HIGH
FAMILY TIES, ECONOMY CITED IN SHARP UPTICK

BYLINE: TODD NELSONPioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: MINNESOTA


The number of immigrants bound for Minnesota surged last year to more than
13,500, with newcomers from Somalia, India and Mexico pushing the total to the
highest level recorded in the last 20 years, according to a state report
released Monday.

The sharp increase -- almost 2,400 more immigrants than the previous year --
came despite expectations that tighter security measures imposed after the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the economic downturn might hold down
legal immigration, said Barbara Ronningen of the Minnesota State Demographic
Center.

But thousands of immigrants headed to Minnesota were able to enter the country
to reunite with relatives or find work in specialized fields, said Ronningen,
who compiled the report from new data from the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security.

"It's interesting to me that we saw an increase, because officially we were in a
recession during the periods this reflects," Ronningen said. "The strong economy
in the late 1990s drew people to Minnesota. Obviously other factors continue to
draw people."

That probably includes the arrival of numerous relatives of African refugees who
already have settled in Minnesota. The state is believed to have the country's
largest concentration of refugees from the East African country of Somalia,
where civil war broke out more than a decade ago.

About 7 percent of all African immigrants to the United States reported they
were going to Minnesota, including 35 percent of Somalis, 12 percent of
Ethiopians and 14 percent of Liberians, according to the report. Overall, 1.3
percent of the 1.06 million immigrants entering the country last year reported
their destination as Minnesota.

Most of the state's newcomers, close to 85 percent, settled in the Twin Cities
metro area.

Tim Counts, spokesman for the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services,
said the new numbers reflect the places immigrants say they will go. They might
spend little time here before moving or settling someplace else. The figures
also do not include immigrants who settled in other states and moved to
Minnesota.

"Most people immigrate to the United States for one of two reasons: to join
family members or for economic opportunities," Counts said. "I would suspect
those two factors are at play in this increase as well."

The number of new immigrants probably will remain high as immigration officials
deal with huge backlogs, said Joel Luedtke, director of refugee services for the
Minnesota Council of Churches.

"We'll continue to see high levels of family-based immigration, because there
are still huge unmet needs for that," Luedtke said. "They're working through
backlogs that are in some cases 10 years long."

While the overall number of immigrants entering Minnesota has gone up, the
number of refugees allowed to enter remains low, in part because of additional
post-Sept. 11 security measures, Luedtke said. About 1,000 are expected to
arrive this year, the same as last year and a drop from the 2,500 who entered in
2001.

"It's interesting that we're finding a way for people to get here on work visits
but yet we can't figure out how to rescue people from death's door when they
need that opportunity," Luedtke said.

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: PIONEER PRESS GRAPHIC

Nations of origin

Immigration reached a 20-year high last year in Minnesota, with a total of
13,522 newcomers from other countries.

[See microfilm for details]

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     August 20, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS RENEW LIFE IN MINNESOTA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 474 words


A report from the State Demographic Center shows that in 2002 more than 13,500
immigrants arrived in Minnesota. Most were from Somalia, India and Mexico, and
most came to join family members already settled here. In 2001, slightly more
than 11,000 legal immigrants moved to Minnesota.

The fact that these newcomers arrived during a statewide and national economic
slump attests to the severity of their reasons for leaving home in the first
place, especially among those who were refugees. The continued strong
immigration to Minnesota also ought to be a source of pride for its citizens, as
it attests to the strength of our state, its institutions and its opportunities.
It speaks well of the welcoming environment that immigrants and their families
find when they arrive.

The state report showed that 12 percent of the immigrants had refugee status,
which means that their lives were endangered if they remained in their homeland.
Minnesota received more newcomers with refugee status than any other state.
Nonetheless, because of security precautions in this post-Sept. 11 world, the
refugee count has declined from a high of 2,500 in 2001 to about 1,000 per year
since.

About 30 percent of all immigrants return home, with the exception of refugees.
Clearly, then, many people move here for the same reason people have always
moved to the United States -- to find better lives.

Nearly all immigrants are young, working-age adults. They arrive and are
welcomed by family members, and then immediately seek employment and language
lessons in their pursuit of a stable family life. During the 2002-'03 school
year, St. Paul public schools welcomed 2,400 new students who did not speak
English. Others with professional training arrive with excellent language
skills: many recruited by American companies for white-collar jobs.

Historically, though, new immigrants take entry-level employment opportunities
-- the jobs shunned by native-born residents. Their impact on the local economy
becomes increasingly important as they adjust to life in Minnesota. Studies have
shown, for example, that new immigrants are frequently first-time homebuyers in
the central cities. Asian immigrants, particularly the Hmong, have bought homes
in St. Paul's Frogtown neighborhood that today might otherwise be boarded up and
abandoned. These new homeowners bring stability and life into a neighborhood
that, over time, might have resembled the blighted portions of urban
neighborhoods in Detroit or Los Angeles.

That immigrants -- and especially refugees -- seek safety and opportunity here
should be a source of pride to Minnesotans who value social justice and believe
in the principles the country was founded on.

The State Demographic Center report can be found at www.mn
plan.state.mn.us/demography. See "What's New" and "Reports."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     SEPTEMBER 1, 2003 Monday CITY EDITION

WITH OPTIONS SPENT, WOMAN'S DEPORTATION NEARLY CERTAIN

BYLINE: RUBEN ROSARIOPioneer Press Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1066 words


For Marisa Carlson, the coming goodbye is a question of when, not if, this time
around.

Illegally adopted in Argentina when she was a week old and brought here, the
28-year-old woman's chaotic life since her teen years has been a recurring saga
of substance abuse and relapses followed by criminal conduct to support her drug
habit.

Spared deportation two years ago following a check forgery conviction, Carlson
is in INS lockup again after another felony case. She has a U.S.-born daughter,
no known family in Argentina and she doesn't speak Spanish.

Such is now the fate for a troubled woman who never got to know her native land
and who has all but forfeited the privilege to stay in the one she does. Her
last hope is that Argentina doesn't cry for her anytime soon, if at all.

"Her deportation, this time, is about 100 percent guaranteed," said Karen
Ellingson, a West St. Paul-based immigration law expert and attorney.

"I don't want to go," says Marisa Carlson, who has filed an appeal that is
highly unlikely to succeed. "I don't know what will happen if I am sent back."

That plea rings tiresome and hollow to those who have heard it before and
believe she has no one except herself to blame.

One of them is the former overseas construction engineer from Lakeville who
first saw tiny Marisa inside a mountain shack outside Buenos Aires, wrapped in a
diaper made of strips of dirty rags. Gary Carlson paid a midwife $300 for the
child. He did it out of a need to protect the newborn from the turbulent times
rocking the South American country in the mid-1970s.

"Perhaps it may be what she needs," said Gary Carlson, now a real estate agent.
"I'm conflicted. But I can't go through this again. It's going to kill me."

Deportation is just the latest in a series of lifelong problems. Because Marisa
Carlson is addicted to cocaine, her 6-year-old daughter is living with Marisa's
adoptive mother in Michigan. In 1998, Marisa Carlson was caught trying to buy
merchandise with a stolen credit card at the Mall of America. The INS placed a
hold on her. But a lawyer retained by her father was able to get the felony
charges reduced and successfully requested a cancellation of removal, a clemency
handed out to just about 4,000 persons annually in the U.S.

The judge warned her she would be deported if she got in trouble again.

Carlson stayed clean until January of 2000, when she was grabbed at a Maplewood
supermarket trying to buy groceries with a forged check. The INS once again
moved to deport her. Her father once again launched an 11th-hour appeal.

This newspaper profiled her case in the spring of 2001, a few months after she
violated probation on the forgery case and was caught riding in a stolen car
with a boyfriend. She received a suspended 21-month sentence from a Ramsey
County judge.

A week later, the INS incredibly dismissed the hold on her on the condition that
Carlson immediately enter an extensive drug rehabilitation program.

"That is an extremely, extremely rare thing for the INS to do," agrees
Ellingson. "I can't emphasize enough how rare that is."

On Nov. 10, 2001, Carlson was picked up at the Widmer's Supermarket in St. Paul
after trying to buy food with a stolen check. Another county judge suspended a
15-month jail term in May of 2002 on the condition that Carlson continue to do
well in drug rehab.

An arrest warrant was issued last summer after Carlson failed to keep in contact
with her probation officer and fled a halfway house. The sentence was executed
last October after Carlson was picked up following a routine traffic stop. The
INS took her into custody after she completed her jail term in July.

Marisa Carlson admits to drug dependency and says she is being treated for a
bipolar disorder at the detention facility in Elk River.

She blames some of her problems on her adoptive parents' divorce and feelings of
low self-esteem while growing up in a Michigan resort community where kids
taunted her because of her dark skin. She also claims that a boy sexually
assaulted her when she was a teen.

As sympathetic a figure as she might be to some, she may have run out of
miracles.

Ellingson said Marisa's very slim chance of staying in this country might depend
on how long the removal process takes after the appeal is decided.

If it lasts six months or longer while Marisa remains in INS custody, she could
petition a federal district judge to release her outright.

"I don't want to sound coldhearted, but there are many, many people who have
committed one offense and been deported," said Ellingson. "She's received more
than her share of breaks."

A sad tale

Highlights and lowlights of Marisa Patricia Carlson's life:

Born: July 15th, 1975, Buenos Aires, Argentina

Entered USA: Aug. 24, 1976 ( after year in South Africa)

Citizen status: Permanent resident (could not be made citizen because of illegal
adoption)

Criminal history:

Nov. 04, 1997: Gross misdemeanor theft. Result: Suspended one-year sentence

Dec. 01, 1998 and Dec. 11, 1998: Gross misdemeanor theft and credit card fraud:
Result: served 90 days in jail.

April 1, 1999: INS places hold on Carlson. She receives cancellation of removal
waiver four months later, allowing her to stay here.

Nov. 16, 2000: Check forgery. Result: suspended one-year sentence. Serves 32
days in jail.

April 26, 2001: INS places a second hold, which is withdrawn a few weeks later.
She is legally adopted later that year, although INS does not recognize
adoptions after age of 16, for removal purposes.

May 11, 2001: Stolen car conviction. Result: Suspended 21-month sentence.

Feb. 11, 2002: Check forgery: Result: Suspended 15-month sentence.

Summer of 2002: Fails to report to probation officer and leaves halfway house.
Result: Arrest warrant issued.

Sept. 30, 2002: Arrested after car driven by current boyfriend is pulled over
for broken windshield: Result: Prison term by Ramsey County Judge Salvador Rosas
is executed.

July 7, 2003: INS takes her into custody after term completion.

Aug. 14th: Judge grants INS request for Carlson's deportation to Argentina.

Aug. 15; Carlson files appeal, citing daughter, time here, and lack of family
and knowledge about native country.

Sources: INS, Justice Department and Ramsey County documents

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SPECIAL TO THE PIONEER PRESS

Marisa Carlson, 28, an illegal adoptee from Argentina, faces almost certain
deportation.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 3, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

CUSTOMS, IMMIGRATION AGENTS WILL BE TRAINED AS CRISIS AIR MARSHALS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 267 words


WASHINGTON -- Customs and immigration agents will be trained as air marshals to
significantly boost the number of federal officers who can protect passenger
flights in emergencies, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said Tuesday.

But government officials said it was unlikely that all 5,500 agents of the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement would qualify and be deployed as
marshals, partly because it would leave no one to do the agents' work.

Instead, the plan is to have more officers with air marshal training available
under high-threat conditions or in the aftermath of a terrorist attack. "This
gives us a 'surge capability,' " Ridge said.

In a speech keyed to the second anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks,
Ridge also announced new procedures for questioning passengers arriving at U.S.
airports from overseas, initiatives to improve communication between federal and
local authorities and a technology program aimed at countering the threat of
bioterrorism.

The air marshal announcement was part of an ongoing internal realignment of the
Homeland Security Department, created at the beginning of the year from 22
disparate government agencies.

Ridge directed that the Federal Air Marshal Service be moved from its current
bureaucratic home in the Transportation Security Administration to the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Several thousand marshals are now covering selected domestic and international
flights. Nonetheless, with about 35,000 commercial airline flights a day, odds
are slim that marshals will be on any given flight.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 8, 2003 Monday CITY EDITION
                              Correction Appended

LICENSES TIED TO VISAS NOT AN ISSUE

BYLINE: Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1066 words


When Minnesota lawmakers started talking about giving visiting foreigners a
different kind of driver's license than citizens and permanent residents get,
they said it would help root out potential terrorists. Opponents said it would
give everyone from cops to grocery store clerks a license to discriminate.

Since the program began in June 2002, the state has issued about 10,000 licenses
to foreign visitors with the red words "status check" and the visitors' visa
expiration dates on them.

The result? So far, nobody can prove that a single potential terrorist has been
intercepted. Nor has anyone come forward with a case of harassment spurred by
the words "status check" on someone's license.

Officials from several law enforcement agencies -- including Minneapolis, St.
Paul and the Minnesota State Patrol -- say they haven't much used the extra
information on the licenses. But Gov. Tim Pawlenty's chief of staff, Charlie
Weaver, said he believes "bad people" have not applied for Minnesota licenses
because of the new scrutiny. Representatives of immigrants and others who oppose
the program said they too have not heard about many cases of immigrants being
ill treated because their legal status is emblazoned on their licenses.

"I haven't heard of anybody being harassed because of it," said Theresa Nelson
of the Minnesota Civil Liberties Union. The MCLU is one of several organizations
that challenged the program, which was enacted through an administrative process
after the Legislature failed to agree on it.

Advocates say people in the United States legally for a limited period are among
the least likely to come forward and complain about their treatment, fearing
repercussions. Some are developing formal inquiries to see how immigrants have
been affected.

"If nothing is happening, then I think we should be fair. ... But if something
is happening out there, then we need to do something about it," said state Sen.
Mee Moua, DFL-St. Paul.

HURDLES BUT NOT HARASSMENT

While visitors aren't necessarily being harassed because of the new license,
they are having to jump more hurdles to get them because they have to prove they
are in the country legally, said several immigrants' advocates.

"It's still sort of a weekly event around here that somebody has a driver
license issue," said Craig Peterson, assistant director of Research and Policy
at the University of Minnesota's International Student and Scholars Services.
Peterson said that for a variety of reasons, some foreign nationals have had to
return to driver's license stations two or three times to get or renew their
licenses.

Justin Cummins, a civil rights attorney at Miller-O'Brien in Minneapolis, said
he represented a Mexican man who felt humiliated and discriminated against
because workers at an exam center allegedly picked at and ultimately confiscated
his valid United States passport because they believed it was a fake.

The man brought the case to the state's Human Rights Department, but the
department decided not to pursue the matter after an initial investigation,
Cummins said.

"Frequently, the people who are most vulnerable in these types of situations are
the very people who are least likely to report them, even if they have legal
status. They are still afraid of bringing attention to themselves," he said.

These days, immigrants seeking licenses probably need someone to help them get a
license, said Colleen Beebe, deputy executive director of the Immigrant Law
Center of Minnesota.

"You need an advocate with you," Beebe said.

The state's Driver and Vehicle Services director Pat McCormack said she has not
heard those types of complaints before but would work to rectify the situation
if she does.

"If there are any problems, hopefully we will hear about them, because that's
the only way we can make corrections," McCormack said.

She has trained all license station workers both to be sensitive to the state's
immigrant populations and about the sometimes complex immigration forms they
might see, she said.

McCormack said she hopes to meet with immigrant groups soon too make sure the
department is serving the population well.

SUCCESSES BUT TOUGH TO PROVE

Just like immigrant representatives say they believe their constituents may have
more complaints than they have voiced, advocates of the program say the program
may be more successful than can be proved.

"It is almost impossible to prove a negative," said Weaver, former state public
safety commissioner and key architect of the new license regulations. "We
accomplished what we wanted (if) all we do is keep bad people from coming to
Minne-sota."

Law enforcement officials from several agencies said they have not been seeing
many of the status check licenses. And spokespeople for Minneapolis and St. Paul
police said their officers do not try to enforce immigration law, so they would
likely not use the visa information even if they encountered it.

"We in the Minneapolis police department cannot and do not use that data for any
type of inquiry," said Ron Reier, Minneapolis police spokesman. The city's
police manual specifically instructs officers not to approach
immigration-related issues except under a few very limited circumstances.

A spokesman for the federal immigration agency, recently renamed the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services, said it has not tracked how many people
have been reported because of the driver's license markings.

Even if people were reported as having outstayed their visa, the agency wouldn't
necessarily do anything about it, said Tim Counts, spokesman for the bureau. "It
depends upon the staff we have available. It depends on a whole range of
things," he said.

ILLEGAL STAY, CANCELED LICENSE

The year-old policy has worked to some extent to ensure that those who have
outstayed their visas do not have valid licenses. Their licenses are valid for
four years, like everyone else's, but officials warn immigrants that when their
legal stay is up, their license will be canceled.

So far, more than 1,800 people with status-check licenses have approached their
cancellation date. Of those, 653 people have proved they have extended or have
applied to extend their visas and received extensions on their Minnesota
driver's licenses as well.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger can be reached at rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MINNESOTA

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2003



CORRECTION: Pat McCormack is the state's Director of Driver Services. Her title
was incorrect in a story Monday.
Tuesday, September 9, 2003

GRAPHIC: Photo

[Example license with visa expiration date]

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 September 18, 2003 Thursday MINNESOTA EDITION

MORE IMMIGRANTS CHOOSE CITIZENSHIP
BUT GROUP SAYS U.S. DOES LITTLE TO SUPPORT CRITICAL STEP

BYLINE: MICHELLE MITTELSTADTDallas Morning News

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 479 words


WASHINGTON -- Nearly 60 percent of immigrants eligible to become U.S. citizens
have done so in recent years, reversing a downturn in the mid-1990s when only 39
percent took the oath, according to an Urban Institute report released
Wednesday.

Still, nearly 8 million eligible people have not elected to become citizens, the
nonpartisan research organization found.

And there's a significant difference between the naturalized population and
those who haven't become citizens, researchers found. Those who haven't
naturalized have more limited English skills, are less educated, and are more
frequently of Mexican origin.

"The Mexican population has historically naturalized at comparatively low
rates," said Michael Fix, head of Urban Institute's Immigration Studies Program,
citing the immigrants' proximity to their native country as a key factor.

As of 2001, 2.3 million Mexicans were eligible for U.S. citizenship -- a figure
10 times higher than from any other country, the study found. While representing
28 percent of all eligible immigrants, Mexicans account for only 9 percent of
the recently naturalized.

By contrast, immigrants from Asian countries represent 43 percent of new
citizens but account for only 27 percent of the eligible pool, the researchers
said.

Texas, because of its Mexican population, is one of a handful of states with a
larger share of immigrants eligible to naturalize than those who have become
citizens, Fix said.

Some 766,000 immigrants living in Texas are eligible for citizenship, compared
to 727,000 who have naturalized, the Urban Institute found in its analysis of
Census Bureau data.

The findings suggest what Fix called a "mismatch" between federal policies that
welcomed record levels of immigrants during the 1980s and 1990s and integration
policies that have been "fragmented and ad hoc."

"Naturalization is the gateway to citizenship for immigrants and to full
membership and political participation in U.S. society," the study says, noting
that citizenship gained even more importance after Congress tightened welfare
and immigration laws in 1996. "Even so, few public policies promote
naturalization."

With 60 percent of the eligible immigrants reporting only limited English
proficiency, the Urban Institute suggested that federal officials consider
offering intensive language and civics courses as an alternative to the
citizenship test.

The Center for Immigration Studies, which argues that immigration rates are too
high, agrees that government policies should foster citizenship.

"Everything we do in our immigration system is done on the cheap, whether it's
enforcement, whether it's processing green cards or it's the citizenship
process," said Steven Camarota, the center's research director.

"It's not surprising that we end up with a lot of people who could be but aren't
citizens."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 September 18, 2003 Thursday MINNESOTA EDITION

HISPANIC POPULATION GROWTH FASTEST IN SOUTH, CENSUS SAYS

BYLINE: MARK NIESSEAssociated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 322 words


ATLANTA -- New Census figures show that Hispanic immigrants have hastened to the
South since 2000, many of them attracted by the growing region's surplus of
low-paying jobs.

Hispanic populations have grown around the country, but fastest in the South,
with Georgia leading the nation with 16.8 percent growth from 2000 to 2002,
according to Census Bureau estimates released Thursday.

Of the 10 states with the highest influx of Hispanics, six are in the South:
Georgia, North Carolina, Kentucky, South Carolina, Virginia and Alabama.

Hispanics were drawn to the South because the region needed workers for manual
labor in industries such as agriculture, construction, textiles and janitorial
work, said Charles Gallagher, a sociology professor at Georgia State University.

"A toilet doesn't get flushed in a hotel, an onion doesn't get cut in a
restaurant and a frame doesn't get built on a house without Latino labor," he
said.

Following Georgia, Washington, D.C., had the second-highest Hispanic growth, at
16 percent.

There were 15.7 percent more Hispanics in North Carolina, 15 percent more in
Nevada and 13.9 percent more in Kentucky.

Minnesota saw a 9.7 percent increase, while Wisconsin had a 7.3 percent rise.

The migration of Hispanics from Latin America to the United States follows a
pattern set by many other immigrant groups -- spurred by poverty, they seek a
new life and better wages in America, Gallagher said.

While Hispanics may make $6 or $7 an hour in labor-intense jobs in the United
States, their dream of social mobility may be out of reach for many of them, he
said. That's because higher-paying jobs requiring more education are already
filled.

"This is as good as it gets for them," Gallagher said. "It's hard work, it's
dangerous work, it's repetitious work. Folks who have been in the U.S. for a few
generations, they won't work these jobs."

Online: www.census.gov

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 September 18, 2003 Thursday WISCONSIN EDITION

HISPANIC, ASIAN GROUPS SHOW GROWTH
CENSUS REPORT REFLECTS IMMIGRATION TRENDS

BYLINE: TODD RICHMOND, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 536 words


The number of Asians and Hispanics in Wisconsin increased between 2000 and 2002,
continuing trends from the last decade, according to estimates the U.S. Census
Bureau released Thursday.

Wisconsin's Asian population increased 11.9 percent over that time to 99,952
people, according to the estimates. That increase was the largest of any ethnic
group in the state. The state's Hispanic population increased 7.3 percent to
209,074, making them the state's second largest minority group behind blacks in
2002, the estimates said.

"The story here is the estimates simply confirm Wisconsin's population changes
revealed in the last decade are continuing," said University of
Wisconsin-Madison demographer Paul Voss. "Latino and Asian migrants are coming
to the United States. We're getting a share of what is a national phenomenon.
There isn't much change from trends well established between 1990 and 2000."

The Census Bureau calculated its estimates by using data from the 2000 Census
and adding in two years of birth, death and international and internal migration
rates, Census Bureau demographic statistician Katherine Condon said.

Immigration advocates and analysts said the estimates reflect trends in Asian
and Hispanic migration where immigrants settle in, set up a base and invite
extended family members to join them.

Thai Vue, executive associate director of the La Crosse Area Hmong Mutual
Assistance Association, attributed the Asian population increase to estranged
families reuniting in Wisconsin. Family members who came to the state first have
finally acclimated and are inviting extended family members, he said.

"People are settling down, buying homes, beginning to intermingle into the
mainstream system," Vue said. "Families have reunited over the last 20 years."

The state's other big draw is work, said Maria Monreal-Cameron, president of the
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Wisconsin in Milwaukee. For example, immigrants
can still find manufacturing jobs in Milwaukee, she said.

High birth rates among Hispanics also have contributed to the population
increase, Monreal-Cameron said.

"Wisconsin is attractive," she said. "A family member comes to Wisconsin and
feels welcome here, he alerts other friends and family members. Yeah, it's cold
here, but I'm making a beautiful life for myself."

Other estimates included:

--The average age of Wisconsin's population in 2002 was 37.1 years, up from 36.8
years in 2000.

--The number of people in Wisconsin 65 years old or older increased slightly,
from 703,483 in 2000 to 706,418 in 2002.

--The number of children 5 years old or younger in the state decreased from
341,048 in 2000 to 338,384 in 2002.

Voss said the aging population reflects baby boomers growing older, low
fertility rates nationally, increasing life expectancies and the fact that
everyone adds years to their lives.

"There's kind of a built-in aging in place," Voss said.

Wisconsin Council on Children and Families fiscal analyst Jon Peacock said he
isn't drawing any conclusions from the aging numbers.

"It peaks my interest, but I wouldn't make a whole lot of it," he said. "I want
to see what that does over a longer period than two years."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 30, 2003 Tuesday WISCONSIN EDITION

RIDERS SEEKING SUPPORT IN STATE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 397 words


A bus of "freedom riders" rolled into Wisconsin as part of a cross-country event
to demand fair treatment of immigrants, including making it easier to obtain
U.S. citizenship.

"This ride will put human rights and civil rights on the front pages of the
nation and represents the best of those in this land, our highest hope," said
Rev. James Lawson, 75, who worked alongside the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. to
start the nonviolent movement for civil rights in the 1960s. He spoke to about
800 people Sunday at Our Lady of Guadalupe Church in Milwaukee.

The Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride left Minneapolis at 8 a.m. Sunday. They will
go on to Indianapolis.; Columbus, Ohio; and Baltimore. Similar buses are
crossing the country and holding rallies to draw attention to immigrant rights
and legalization.

The ride plans to reach Washington, D.C., later this week and lobby Congress on
Thursday, then hold a mass rally Saturday at the Statue of Liberty.

The ride is modeled on Civil Rights caravans of the 1960s that sought to gain
voting and other rights for African Americans in the South. Its goals include
changing laws to make it easier to obtain U.S. citizenship, to gain protection
in the workplace, and to keep families together. President Bush seemed to be
moving toward granting amnesty to many workers from Central America when the
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 ended progress on the issue.

The riders also made a stop in Madison, where U.S. Sen. Russ Feingold told about
200 people at the Madison Labor Temple that he supports the immigrants' drive
for equal rights. "My own grandfather immigrated here at age 14," Feingold said
in a speech that was translated into Spanish. "My father flunked kindergarten,
twice, in Janesville, because he didn't speak English; he only spoke Yiddish."

America was built by immigrants, Feingold said, and should welcome its newest
immigrants with laws that guarantee equal protection for workers.

Among those on board the bus in Milwaukee were Nicole Ly, 23, of St. Paul, whose
parents came to the United States from Laos. A political organizer with
Progressive Minnesota, she said the ride is important to her and the Hmong
community. "A lot of times people are afraid to stand up because they feel they
have no say in government policies," she said. "They work hard, pay taxes and
deserve to be included and have rights."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATEWIDE

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 4, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

IDENTIX SECURES CONTRACT
HOMELAND BUREAU BUYS SCANNERS

BYLINE: JENNIFER BJORHUS, Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 448 words


Minnetonka-based Identix Inc. is cashing in on homeland defense dollars, winning
its first contract with the new U.S. Department of Homeland Security -- a deal
for high-tech fingerprint scanners potentially worth $27 million.

Under the blanket purchase agreement, Identix will supply its TouchPrint 3000
line of fingerprint scanners to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services. This is the part of the new Department of Homeland Security that
handles immigration and citizenship applications once processed by the disbanded
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The scanners will be installed at many of the immigration bureau's 130 Applicant
Service Centers to screen the backgrounds of people applying for green cards and
other immigration documents. The new contract is part of the Homeland Security
Department's ongoing program to tighten immigration checks, but is not part of
the vast federal program under construction for tracking all foreigners with
visas, according to company spokesman Damon Wright.

Identix makes a range of biometric systems for scanning fingerprints and faces.
Biometric technologies convert human characteristics such as faces and voices
into mathematical formulas that can be put on computer chips.

The contract is the company's first with Homeland Security. Identix makes most
of its money, however, from government contracts and has worked for years with
the old INS and U.S. Customs, both of which are now part of Homeland Security.
Identix also sells to police departments, social service agencies and airports.

Formerly a Silicon Valley company, Identix bought Minnetonka-based Visionics
Corp. last year. It now employs about 550 people -- about 380 in Minnesota with
the rest in New Jersey and around Washington, D.C. Joseph Adick, chief executive
of Identix and former chief executive of Visionics, owns more Identix shares
than any other person.

The dust has settled after an initial rush of interest in biometrics stocks
following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Some applications of new
biometric technology have raised serious privacy issues, homeland defense funds
were focused on aviation security and industries have been generally slow to
adopt the new surveillance tools.

Identix's losses have widened considerably in recent years on relatively flat
sales. In its latest fiscal year, Identix lost $187 million on sales of $92
million. The company attributes the losses to buying Visionics and the challenge
of ramping up an emerging security technology.

Identix shares closed Friday at $6, up 14 cents.

Jennifer Bjorhus can be reached at jbjorhus@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2146.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     October 16, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

PROBE IN IRAQ RESULTS IN 2 ARRESTS

BYLINE: Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 286 words


WALNUT CREEK, Calif. -- An Iraqi father and son who list a business address in
California have been indicted and arrested for allegedly brokering an $11
million deal to build armored patrol boats for Iraq, a plan disrupted when
Saddam Hussein's regime collapsed during the war last spring.

The arrests this week of Sabri Yakou, 69, and his son, Regard Yakou, 43, by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents were the first resulting from postwar
weapons probes in Iraq, said agency chief Michael Garcia.

"ICE teams have been in Iraq since the war began in March, where they've been
working with the Department of Defense to peel back the layers of Saddam's
covert weapons procurement network and track down his suppliers," Garcia said in
a statement Wednesday. ICE incorporates the former immigration and customs
agencies.

A federal grand jury indicted the father and son each on one count of violating
federal law by failing to obtain government approval before negotiating and
arranging contracts, purchases, sales and transfers of defense articles.
Specifically, they are accused of building for a state-owned Iraqi company six
armored, crash-resistant patrol boats equipped with machine guns and heavy deck
guns, according to an affidavit made by an ICE agent in support of the
indictment.

They are accused of intentionally failing to obtain federal export licenses for
their business, P.T. Gulf International.

Sabri Yakou, a lawful permanent resident of the United States, was arrested
Tuesday when he arrived in Washington, D.C. He appeared before a U.S. magistrate
Wednesday.

Regard Yakou was arrested Saturday in Baghdad and was being brought to the
United States on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      November 2, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

FOX DEFENDS DECADE-LONG INVESTIGATIONS OF SERIAL KILLINGS

BYLINE: KEVIN SULLIVANWashington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 337 words


MEXICO CITY -- President Vicente Fox says he has no evidence of corruption or
incompetence in investigations into the unsolved killings of scores of young
women in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, despite a torrent of criticism from
human rights groups.

Amnesty International and other rights groups, members of the U.S. Congress and
victims' families have alleged that investigations into Mexico's most notorious
killing spree had been poisoned by fabricated and lost evidence, shoddy
investigative techniques and police torture of suspects.

"I respect their opinion, but we haven't found those conditions in these cases,"
Fox said in an interview Friday, adding that he was satisfied with the
investigations into the decade-long string of killings.

Fox spoke as he prepared for a three-day swing this week through Arizona, New
Mexico and Texas. There, he will meet government, civic and business leaders to
bolster economic ties between the two nations and press for immigration reforms
to aid Mexicans who want to work in the United States.

While immigration reform is Mexico's top foreign policy priority, there is no
more pressing issue along the border than the Juarez murders, which have
resulted in extensive international criticism from human rights and women's
groups.

Fox said investigators had made good progress in their work on the killings. In
the last 10 years, about 100 women in Juarez, many of them young factory workers
who were also raped and mutilated, have been killed in a pattern identified with
these serial attacks.

"The government of Mexico has always seen what it wants to see," said Eric Olson
of Amnesty International in Washington. "The government of President Fox has
failed to deal with this issue from the outset."

Fox said many of the killings have already been solved, but Rep. Hilda Solis,
D-Calif., who led a four-member congressional delegation to Ciudad Juarez two
weeks ago, said: "I have to believe that the president may not be given all the
information."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See accompaning story: Mexico's killing spree may have spread

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     November 23, 2003 Sunday CITY EDITION

SOMALI PUTS FAITH IN HIGH COURT
U.S. JUSTICES DECIDING WHETHER TO HEAR DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 856 words


A Minnesota Somali challenging the government's authority to deport him to his
homeland hopes the U.S. Supreme Court will decide his fate.

Lawyers for Keyse G. Jama filed papers earlier this month asking the Supreme
Court to review the long-running legal dispute that has seen Jama spend more
than 3 1/2 years in immigration custody while facing deportation.

A decision on whether justices will take up the case is due in May. Jama, 24,
won't get deported to Somalia -- where chaos has prevailed in the dozen years
since civil war broke out -- under a ruling this month from the 8th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals. But he also remains behind bars at the state prison in Rush
City, Minn., and the wait isn't getting any easier.

"He's really suffering from the despair of being trapped in this situation,"
said Michele Garnett McKenzie, a lawyer and director of the refugee and
immigrant program at Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, which is working with
Jama.

Minnesota Somalis, one of the state's newest and largest immigrant groups and
one of the largest concentrations of Somali refugees in the country, are
watching the Jama case closely.

"That either he remains here or he goes to Somalia depends on the law and how
the judges interpret the law," said Saeed Fahia, executive director of the
Confederation of Somali Community in Minnesota. "It's something noble to us. In
Somalia, in the last 35 years, there has been no rule of law. This is reassuring
to many community members here."

Thomas Heffelfinger, the U.S. attorney in Minnesota, declined to comment because
the case is pending. The U.S. solicitor general, who argues cases before the
Supreme Court, has until Dec. 5 to file a response to Jama's request.

A spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement said only
that the government's position is that it has the authority to remove to Somalia
those the courts have ordered to leave because of criminal convictions or
violations of immigration law.

Jama is subject to removal because of a third-degree assault conviction stemming
from a 1999 fight in Hennepin County. He completed his criminal sentence in June
2000 but has been in immigration custody since. Over the years, his case has
gone from a solitary appeal grinding through the federal courts to the basis for
a class-action lawsuit that led to a ban on deporting some 2,700 Somalis
nationwide, at least until their homeland reaches some stability.

His lawyers, Jeffrey Keyes and Kevin Magnuson of Minneapolis' Briggs & Morgan
law firm, challenged the legality of deporting Jama to a country without a
functioning government to accept him.

U.S. District Judge John Tunheim of Minneapolis agreed, issuing an order last
year that barred the government from removing Jama until Somalia has a central
government that can accept him. A federal judge in Seattle reached the same
opinion in January, citing Jama's case, and imposing a nationwide ban on
removing Somalis to their homeland.

Federal appeals courts, however, have since split on the issue. In May, a
divided panel of the 8th Circuit reversed Tunheim's order, finding that
immigration officials do have the authority to deport Jama to Somalia. The 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals found differently in September, upholding the
decision of the federal judge in Seattle who had imposed a nationwide ban on
deporting Somalis.

The differing views between federal appeals courts in Minnesota and Washington
state may help persuade the Supreme Court to review the dispute, McKenzie said.

"If everyone agreed this is how these cases should be handled, it's unlikely the
Supreme Court would want to change them," McKenzie said.

Jama nearly got deported last month when Tunheim ordered the government -- which
had had the right to remove him since May but had not done so -- to release him.
Immigration officials instead began steps to deport Jama, but his lawyers asked
the 8th Circuit for an emergency stay to give them time to file the request for
a Supreme Court review.

The 8th Circuit, in a Nov. 10 order, stayed Jama's deportation "until the
Supreme Court of the United States takes action on Mr. Jama's petition." That
order may provide some clue as to how the Supreme Court will respond, because
the 8th Circuit's rules state that it usually denies a stay unless it concludes
the case has a reasonable chance to get a Supreme Court review.

Abdi Samatar, a geography professor at the University of Minnesota and Somali
native who came to Minnesota as a student in the 1970s, said the case is
providing a valuable civics lesson for Somalis and other refugees.

"Here is an individual who is taking his case against the government, and the
court system is open to him, which is something no one can say about Somalia,"
Samatar said. "Even when there was a government, the courts were of a kangaroo
nature. That you can go as a recent refugee who has problems with the legal
system all the way to the top court in the country, speaks volumes about the
legal system here."

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MINNESOTA

GRAPHIC: Photo

Keyse Jama

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  November 25, 2003 Tuesday WISCONSIN EDITION

MUSLIMS CLAIM MISTREATMENT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: PORT WASHINGTON, WIS.


Three Muslims held in the Ozaukee County Jail on federal immigration charges
claimed they were mistreated because of their religion.

But, Sheriff Maury Straub said jailers had "bent over backwards" to accommodate
the inmates' needs during the holy month of Ramadan.

The three Muslims said in a letter to a jail administrator that they were
targeted for a "shakedown" by a sheriff's deputy who found food they had saved
for breaking their fasts, required during the month by Islamic faith.

Emad Samara said he tried to explain why he was saving food, which was against
jail policy, but was rebuked by a jailer. Samara had earlier written the jail
administrator, sheriff's Lt. Gerald Ebert, to explain the Ramadan requirements.

Samara said in his second letter that another Muslim inmate was threatened with
solitary confinement by the same deputy for keeping a carton of milk and another
inmate was harassed after the jailer found two apples.

Ebert responded to Samara's letters. "Religion is not a factor in your treatment
here. Don't (throw) your nationality or religion in the deputy's face and they
will not have to respond to it," he wrote.

The searches were done because of a missing bowl, not because of religion, Ebert
said.

Dozens of federal detainees are being held in the Ozaukee County Jail under a
contract with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforement.

Federal rules require contract jail to make accommodations for religious dietary
requirements, but food hoarding was not allowed, said immigration spokeswoman
Marilu Cabrera.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      December 1, 2003 Monday CITY EDITION

HMONG IMMIGRANTS CELEBRATE NEW YEAR
GOV. DOYLE PROMOTES SUPPORT FOR CULTURE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 245 words


SHEBOYGAN, Wis. -- Wisconsin Gov. Jim Doyle says the Hmong immigration into the
state is one of state history's greatest stories.

Hmong culture "is now as much a part of Wisconsin as the Green Bay Packers,"
Doyle told about 3,000 people Saturday celebrating the Hmong new year at the
Sheboygan Armory.

"Let's continue to work to make sure more Hmong people are starting their own
businesses, are employing people, are buying their own homes," he said.

The Hmong, originally from Laos in Southeast Asia, worked with the U.S.
government as allies during the Vietnam War. Many later fled the country and
moved to the United States.

Minnesota and Wisconsin now account for 45 percent of the country's Hmong
population, according to census figures. Wisconsin has 33,791 Hmong residents.

The Sheboygan ceremony was one of several in Wisconsin over the weekend. In St.
Paul, meanwhile, the 28th annual Hmong New Year celebration -- one of the
nation's largest such events -- wrapped up on Sunday.

The Hmong don't have a set date to celebrate the new year and traditionally wait
until after the harvest.

Doyle said education is key for the Hmong to continue their upward mobility in
Wisconsin. He also called for the creation of a Hmong studies program at one of
the University of Wisconsin campuses.

The Hmong Mutual Assistance Association of Sheboygan Inc. presented the governor
with a "qeej," a traditional flute-like instrument crafted of bamboo.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 2, 2003 Tuesday CITY EDITION

REGULAR REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN MALES TO END
U.S. HAD BEEN ACCUSED OF TARGETING ARABS

BYLINE: SHANNON MCCAFFREYWashington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 363 words


WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration is ending a controversial anti-terrorism
program that required thousands of Middle Eastern men in the United States to
register with the government at regular intervals.

But visitors from the 25 "countries of concern" targeted by the National
Security Entry Exit Registration System (NSEERS) will still face additional
scrutiny when they enter or leave the country. And more than 13,000 men may be
deported as a result of the program, most because they overstayed their visas.

Launched after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, NSEERS has drawn sharp criticism
from immigration and civil liberties advocates, who said it discriminated
against male immigrants based solely on their national origin.

The program required men from 25 countries that have terrorist ties to go to
U.S. immigration offices and be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed. A
total of 83,519 complied.

No one who registered has been charged with terrorism-related crimes. But the
government claims that the program stopped some with terrorist connections from
entering the country, and 143 foreigners were jailed after it was found that
they were wanted for other crimes.

Asa Hutchinson, the Department of Homeland Security's undersecretary for borders
and transportation, said the NSEERS changes are designed to keep the nation's
boundaries safe while minimizing the impact on foreign visitors once they enter.

In January, the government will implement US-Visit, which will fingerprint and
digitally photograph all foreigners entering and leaving the United States from
countries that do not have visa waivers, which includes most other countries.
Earlier this year, the government also put in place a program intended to keep
tabs on foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities.

Hutchinson said the domestic portion of NSEERS "didn't yield sufficient leads"
to justify the money being spent.

Those who registered when the program began in September 2002 were facing
deadlines to re-register, creating fresh anxiety in Arab and Muslim communities,
where there was widespread fear that the program was being used as a deportation
trap.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The War on Terrorism

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    December 3, 2003 Wednesday CITY EDITION

LATINOS SPEAK OUT AT FORUM WITH MAYOR
SAFETY, IMMIGRATION, SCHOOL ISSUES TOP LIST

BYLINE: TONI COLEMAN, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


Access to police protection and driver's licenses regardless of immigration
status emerged as major issues Tuesday among about 200 Latino residents who
answered Mayor Randy Kelly's call to attend an open forum with city and state
officials.

A group of union workers called on the mayor and City Council to pass an
ordinance that prohibits police from acting as immigration agents. Current
police policy is not to inquire about immigration status unless absolutely
necessary.

Angel Morales, an organizer with the Isaiah coalition of churches, said he
wanted the policy formalized in the form of an ordinance not subject to change
at the whim of the next police chief.

An ordinance similar to one the Minneapolis City Council adopted earlier this
year could enable undocumented Latino victims to report crimes without fear of
being arrested and deported.

Kelly said he would review the ordinance and state his position within two
weeks.

Kelly called the forum, held at Dayton's Bluff Recreation Center, to listen to
the Latino community's concerns and ideas for resolving them. St. Paul's Latino
population, which at 22,700 makes up 8 percent of the city's population, has
ballooned 120 percent since 1990.

Community members demanded involvement in the search for Police Chief Bill
Finney's replacement, chided state education officials for developing education
standards without input from the Latino community and criticized as lax the
efforts of government agencies to inform Latinos about the availability of and
access to services.

Michele Waslin, immigration policy analyst with the National Council of La Raza,
called on Kelly and the St. Paul police department to support issuance of
driver's licenses regardless of immigration status, a request that drew vigorous
applause from the crowd. The state had tied driver's license eligibility to
immigration status, forcing potential drivers to prove they're here legally.
That requirement endangers everyone because many people are driving without
having been tested and without insurance, Waslin said.

Because of the anti-immigration policies, Latinos living and working in the
community feel "vulnerable, isolated, marginalized and under attack," she said.

Kelly said after the meeting a change in driver's license eligibility would be
difficult considering Gov. Tim Pawlenty campaigned on making it tougher for
people here illegally to get a driver's license.

East Side resident Judy Ojeda sought a commitment from officials that they would
move beyond discussion to action.

"You know what our issues are," she said. "How are you going to help us? What
are you really going to do?"

Kelly said city officials would analyze the suggestions and look into
establishing partnerships to improve student achievement and ensure Latino
adults have access to trades training.

"We're not going to be able to solve all of the problems, but the fact that you
have 15 or 20 officials listening and learning is going to be helpful," Kelly
said. "The dialogues we have with the Latino community, we can build on."

Toni Coleman can be reached at tcoleman@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5442.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    December 18, 2003 Thursday CITY EDITION

SOCCER COACH HOPING FOR A SAVE
'GOOD ROLE MODEL' FACING DEPORTATION TO NATIVE AFRICA, SEPARATION FROM FAMILY

BYLINE: RUBEN ROSARIOPioneer Press Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1233 words


Until the day last week when federal immigration agents legally snatched him
from a St. Paul street, Stanley Akum Akopi was living the American dream.

A University of St. Thomas mathematics and computer science graduate, Akum, 39,
planned to pursue a master's degree. His only child, Brenden, was born this
summer. He married his son's mother last month after an 18-month courtship.

And this fall, as coach of the Highland Park Senior High School junior varsity
boys soccer team, the former Cameroon soccer star and reputed son of a tribal
chief guided the Scots to an undefeated season and a conference title.

"His expectations were extremely high, and that rubbed off on the boys," says
varsity coach Mike Scarlett. "He was a good role model for those kids."

Then, on Dec. 9, the dream collapsed on him. Akopi was unexpectedly taken into
custody by two agents as he cleared snow off his car in front of his apartment
complex.

"Brenden was running a 103 temperature, and Stanley had gone down to get the car
ready to drive us to the doctor," recalls his wife, Cayle Dantzman Akum, 24, an
office manager for a Shoreview-based family financial planning firm. "When I
came down with Brenden, I saw the car running but no sign of Stanley. Then I
heard him calling my name from inside a car up the street."

The anguished mom went ahead to the doctor. Her husband went to the Carver
County Jail, where he remains held indefinitely.

Great country, America. The next time you take citizenship for granted, pinch
yourself and consider the plight of people like Stanley Akum Akopi.

COMING TO AMERICA

Here illegally since his student visa expired in 1992, Akopi faces imminent
deportation after a 2001 ruling rejecting his request for political asylum was
upheld in late October by a federal immigration review board in Washington.

An arrest warrant was issued after he failed to appear for a removal hearing.
His wife and lawyer claim Akum never received the letter because it was
erroneously sent to a prior St. Paul address. Government officials claim they
never received the change of address. Akopi assumed he would remain free pending
the results of a final review of his case by a federal appeals court in St.
Louis. He was wrong.

Akopi could be sent back to Cameroon at any time, unless the appeals court
agrees to stay his deportation while his case is considered.

"Although it's an important element, being a good member of the community or
having a U.S.-born spouse or son doesn't guarantee or establish legal residency
in this country," says Tim Counts, spokesman for the local Department of
Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau, formerly known
as the INS.

"The fact is that he chose to remain in this country illegally for a long time,
and did not apply for permanent residency after his visa expired," Counts adds.
"The situation he now finds himself in is a consequence of those decisions."

Akopi maintains that he first filed for asylum in 1992 in Chicago. That
application was rejected in 1999.

In his asylum appeal, Akopi states he fled the West African nation in 1987,
fearful that he would suffer a fate similar to those of his father and other
relatives, who were allegedly killed or persecuted because of their political
opposition to President Paul Biya's administration.

"I am convinced, based on the testimony and the documentation that has been
submitted, that he has a right to fear persecution or fear for his life if he is
sent back," says Barton Winter, the Minneapolis-based lawyer handling the
appeal.

Political asylum has traditionally been a high standard to meet. Last year,
immigration judges granted asylum in 8,638 of the 72,712 cases that came before
them.

Of the 533 applications from Cameroon nationals, 114 were approved.

There is now an 11th-hour effort by friends, supporters and prominent
legislators under way to at least keep Akum in this country until the court acts
on the appeal.

"I respectfully request you give consideration to reviewing Mr. Stanley Akum
Akopi's request for a stay of deportation for humanitarian reasons pending the
decision of the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals," U.S. Sen. Norm Coleman, R-Minn.,
wrote in a letter sent Tuesday to local immigration bureau director Mark
Cangemi.

Winter says Akopi's deportation at this point will pose a hardship because he is
the primary caretaker for his son, and his wife might be forced to quit her job
because she cannot afford day care.

"He should at least be able to be with his family during the appeal," Winter
notes. "Mr. Akum has no criminal record, a good reputation in the community, and
has a U.S.-born wife and son who depend on him. He's not going anywhere."

FEAR OF DEATH?

In his asylum appeal papers, Akopi testified he is a son of the late chief of
the Moghamo tribe, an English-speaking minority. The father was instrumental in
leading a political opposition movement against Biya's regime before his death
in 1982.

A recent report by the group Human Rights Watch on Cameroon noted that "security
forces have been responsible for torture and harassment of the political
opposition and local human rights activists among others."

Akopi became more politically active following his father's death in 1982 and
was arrested and reportedly roughed up by government forces following a protest
march in 1986. He fled a year later after securing a student visa through a
soccer coach.

Akopi said two sisters were killed after another demonstration. An affidavit was
submitted from a 96-year-old village tribesman who believed Akopi's father was
beaten to death by intruders who raided a tribal compound one day.

Others who corroborated Akopi's account included a journalist from Cameroon who
himself was granted political asylum here in 1997, and a human rights lawyer
with knowledge of government repression against some of Akopi's relatives. Among
exhibits was a 2001 newspaper article from Cameroon identifying Akopi as a man
wanted by the government for insurrection.

However, a Bloomington-based immigration judge concluded that Akopi's account
was not credible. She noted that an opposition-party membership card in his
possession had been altered to make it look like he had been a member since 1990
and not 1998. She also determined that neck and leg injuries Akopi said he
received after his arrest were more likely the result of playing soccer without
shin guards.

Robert Awsumb, a St. Paul lawyer who has known Akopi for a decade, says he
"absolutely" believes his story.

"He has a crater-size injury on his neck and other scars that did not come from
any soccer," Awsumb points out.

Scarlett doesn't know much about the details behind Akopi's deportation status.
All he can go on is the character of the man.

"He's a good, upstanding man and the typical immigrant story -- someone who came
here, got an education and is contributing to society," Scarlett says.
"Personally, I think it would be a shame to send somebody like this back."

Akopi's wife, who is hoping for a small miracle right now, says her husband
would be devastated if deported.

"I'd rather be dead," she quoted him as saying during a Wednesday-evening jail
visit. "If I'm sent back, I'll find a way to flee the country before they get
me."

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS

Stanley Akum Akopi, in photo at left in his St. Paul home, would be separated
from wife Cayle and son Brenden if he's deported to his native Cameroon because
of his immigration status. He was taken into custody last week.

Photo

Stanley Akum Akopi

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    December 20, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

GOVERNOR WILL WELCOME CHALLENGE OF REFUGEES

BYLINE: BILL SALISBURY, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 442 words


The next wave of Hmong and Lao refugees that is expected to reach the Twin
Cities next year will get a warm welcome from Gov. Tim Pawlenty.

The governor said in an interview Friday he views the influx of immigrants as
"both an opportunity and a bit of a challenge."

"Immigration brings dynamic qualities and diversity to our state, and it makes a
lot of positive contributions to our state," he said.

The challenge, Pawlenty said, will be to provide the health care, housing,
education and job training immigrants need. He said he would ask the federal
government, which announced a resettlement program earlier this week, to help
finance those services.

More than 15,000 refugees who fled to Thailand from Laos after the Vietnam War
will be eligible to apply. Many have relatives in St. Paul, home to the largest
Hmong community in the nation. Hmong activist Lee Pao Xiong has estimated that
60 percent, or 9,000 refugees, eventually would settle in Minnesota.

"We want to be welcoming, and we want to do what we can to make it successful,"
Pawlenty said. "We'd like to hear their ideas and suggestions about what will
make that happen."

Noting that 18,000 immigrants from Africa, Asia and Latin America resettled in
Minnesota last year, he expressed confidence the state can handle the influx.

With the state facing a projected $185 million deficit in its current budget,
the governor won't have much money for new services.

"We're hopeful that if the economy continues to improve, sometime before I leave
office we're going have some money," he said.

But if revenues don't increase, he said, he has "some limited opportunity to
move some money around and reprioritize some things" to meet the state's
most-pressing needs. "We're not going to go back and re-debate the whole budget,
but there are a few things that represent some unintended consequences or have
played out in ways that are worth revisiting."

At the "very top" of his priority list is a state income tax exemption he wants
to offer about 3,000 Minnesota National Guard and reserve soldiers who are
deployed on active duty. That tax break could be offered for a relatively small
sum, he said.

He said he'd also like to restore state-subsidized health insurance coverage for
glucose testing strips for low-income diabetics. MinnesotaCare coverage for
medical supplies for about 20,000 low-income adults was eliminated under budget
cuts that took effect Oct. 1.

If more money is available, he said, he would consider restoring funding to
other social services that were cut.

Bill Salisbury can be reached at bsalisbury@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5538.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Gov. Tim Pawlenty [Photo appeared in South Surburan Edition.]

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 28, 2003 Sunday EARLY EDITION

ARAB CASES TEST CANADA'S TOLERANCE
LIMITS OPEN ARMS CULTURE MAY PUT NATION AT RISK

BYLINE: DENEEN L. BROWNWashington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1009 words


TORONTO -- Hassan Almrei, a Syrian who immigrated to Canada on a fake passport,
sat in a glass cage in a courtroom, watching lawyers argue his case.

The 29-year-old listened as prosecutors accused him of having links to
terrorists and demanded he be deported to his native Syria. His attorney,
Barbara Jackman, argued it would be inhumane to send the man to a country known
for torture.

A tall man thinned by a hunger strike, Almrei admitted in an affidavit that he
had lied to government agents about his activities, but denied being a
terrorist.

The cases of Almrei and other Canadian immigrants of Arab descent underscore the
tensions in Canada's larger debate about how to deal with immigrants accused of
involvement in terrorism.

Canadians pride themselves on ideals of tolerance, inclusion and the belief that
immigrants should have the same rights as Canadian citizens. But the country is
wrestling with how to protect national security and answer critics who contend
that its liberal immigration policies make it easy prey for terrorists.

"Two years after Sept. 11, there is a failure to come up with a policy on
terrorism here, at home, and globally," said Wesley Wark, a professor of
international relations at the Munk Center for International Studies at the
University of Toronto.

"There is a great deal of divisiveness in Canada about how Canada wants to
pursue the war on global terrorism."

In the past few months, Canada has dealt with a series of cases including that
of Maher Arar, a Canadian Syrian arrested in the United States, accused of
having links to terrorists, then taken by U.S. agents to Syria where he says he
was tortured. Arar's secret deportation to Syria incensed many Canadians, who
said the United States had not respected Arar's Canadian citizenship.

Jean Chretien, then the prime minister, criticized the United States for
deporting Arar, and critics demanded details about Canada's intelligence
relationship with the Bush administration. Many Canadians were also angry that
U.S. officials appeared unapologetic about the case.

"The response in Canada was, 'How dare they?' " said John Thompson, director of
the MacKenzie Institute, which studies organized violence and political
instability.

The Arar case cast a shadow over other recent, similar cases. Soon after Syrian
authorities freed Arar, Canadian citizen Abdul Rahman Khadr said U.S.
authorities sent him against his will to Afghanistan after he was freed from the
U.S. prison camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Khadr, 20, who had been detained for
alleged links to al-Qaida, said he had told U.S. authorities he wanted to return
to Canada.

Canada's Foreign Ministry said Khadr had asked to be sent to Afghanistan, where
he had been captured in November 2001. Khadr's brother, Omar, 17, accused of
killing a U.S. soldier with a grenade during a shootout in Afghanistan, remains
at Guantanamo Bay. Their Egyptian-born Canadian father, Ahmed Khadr, is alleged
to be an al-Qaida leader wanted by the United States.

Martin Rudner, director of the Canadian Center for Intelligence and Security
Studies at Carleton University in Ottawa, said attorneys in each of the cases
accuse the Canadian government of failing to protect its citizens.

"In the case of Khadr and Almrei, the legal representation uses the Arar case to
say there is a huge problem with how the Canadian government is operating,"
Rudner said. "In the Khadr case, once again the Canadian government seemed
unable or unwilling to assist Khadr, and the United States simply plopped him
back in Afghanistan and left him to his own devices to find his way back to
Canada. I don't think that is the case. But questions were raised about Canada's
ability to protect its citizens."

Canada portrays itself as a socially liberal society. It is a nation of
immigrants, legal and illegal, who are seen as essential to its growth. Since
the 1960s, when then-Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau opened Canada's doors to more
immigrants of color, millions have immigrated to Canada, changing the face of
its society. Recent government statistics show that immigrants from West and
Central Asia and the Middle East grew from 13,360 in 1961 to 162,220 in 2001,
while the number of immigrants from Southeast Asia grew from 14,095 to 185,665.

Unlike the United States, where many immigrants feel pressure to assimilate,
Canada encourages people to maintain their cultural identities.

"It gives us great strength, but also exposes several vulnerabilities," said
Rudner, who said terrorist groups have exploited Canada's tolerance.

Critics of Canada's immigration policies cite a 1985 Canadian Supreme Court
decision that they say allows criminals to exploit the system.

The court "said that anybody who reaches Canada is entitled to all the same
rights and legal protection of Canadian citizens regardless of their status.
That was a flare that went up that told people around the world we are an easy
mark, and we have had an uncontrollable refugee problem every since," said
Thompson, of the MacKenzie Institute.

As Canada grows more diverse and more cosmopolitan, Thompson said, it has
imported more of the world's conflicts. For example, the 1985 bombing of an Air
India flight that killed 329 people was allegedly planned in Canada by militant
Sikh separatists who wanted to retaliate for an Indian government raid on the
Golden Temple of Amritsar, the Sikh faith's holiest shrine.

Still, Thompson said, there is a certain naive belief among some Canadians
outside intelligence and police circles that terrorism could never occur in
Canada.

"There has always been disillusions about security in Canada, that Canada is
always deemed to be safe from the world's troubles, that violence could never
occur here," Thompson said. "The feeling is we are peacekeepers, we are doing
this out of altruism and the world loves us for it."

But he cautioned: "A lot of Canadians have difficulty understanding we are under
threat. Osama bin Laden mentioned Canada as a target this year."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 4, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

REACHING OUT
TWIN CITIES AREA BANKS ARE EXPANDING SERVICES AVAILABLE IN OTHER LANGUAGES;
INCLUDING HMONG, SPANISH AND CHINESE.

BYLINE: SHERYL JEANPioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D4

LENGTH: 785 words


Banks in the Twin Cities and nationally have been expanding their services to
customers who speak Cantonese, Hmong or Spanish. The latest development came
earlier this month from Wells Fargo & Co., which began a special
Chinese-language phone line to help customers who speak Mandarin or Cantonese in
Minnesota and across the country. It joins an automated Spanish and English
phone line.

"Our overall intent is to make sure that we're serving as wide a customer base
as we can," said Kelly Gosz, a community bank president for Wells Fargo in
Minneapolis. "Certainly, being able to communicate with customers in their own
language or their language preference is critical."

Many banks in recent years have enhanced their foreign-language services for
customers who speak or prefer to speak a language other than English. Such
services now include translators, brochures and educational materials in a
variety of languages and bilingual tellers who speak a variety of languages.

Bankers say they're trying to serve burgeoning immigrant groups, which represent
one of the fastest-growing markets for banks. However, banks typically don't
disclose the percentage of immigrant customers.

Minnesota's minority population doubled to 12 percent in the 1990s. Minnesota is
home to what is believed to be the largest Somali population in the country and
the second-largest Hmong group in any state, after California. Latinos are the
state's fastest-growing minority.

Banks must keep up with the changing community, said William Yang, executive
director of the Hmong American Partnership, a social services group in St. Paul.
He would like to see more banks hire bilingual minority staff, which could
eliminate their dependence on translation services.

Call centers for TCF, U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo use a third-party translation
service that can be called into a three-way telephone conversation. Many banks
also rely heavily on bilingual employees who act as translators in addition to
their regular jobs.

Minneapolis-based U.S. Bank lists on an internal Web site hundreds of bilingual
employees companywide who combined speak nearly 100 languages -- from Greek to
Korean to Bengali -- and can be called upon to help with customers anywhere.

Employees at the U.S. Bank office on Lake Street at Elliot Avenue in South
Minneapolis speak 18 different languages, from French and Spanish to Croatian
and Russian, said assistant branch manager Hector Mena, who speaks Spanish. That
capability draws customers to that branch from as far away as Rochester, he
said.

U.S. Bank's Web site at www.usbank.com, its automated customer service phone
line and cash machines are in Spanish and English. The No. 2 bank in Minnesota
also is looking at technology to add more language options to cash machines in
certain markets, such as Hmong and Somali languages in the Twin Cities, said
spokesman Steve Dale.

"We want to be able to overcome language barriers in any way we can," Dale said.
"There's a certain trust and comfort level there, and we want to educate people
about our products and services."

San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the largest bank in Minnesota, is a leader in
Minnesota and nationally in offering services for immigrant communities.

"In the past few years, we've seen tremendous growth in our Spanish language
(phone line), so we began looking at where else we might see need and growth,"
said Megan Reidy, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. "We anticipated
Chinese calls would be a growth area, so to stay ahead of that growth, we added
the Chinese language (phone line). It's another example of how we want to
anticipate the needs of our diverse communities to better serve them."

Wells Fargo has considered adding the Hmong language to its national phone line,
Reidy said. Last May, the bank began offering a Hmong option -- displayed
on-screen as "Hmoob" in the Hmong language -- at most cash machines in
Minnesota.

The bilingual phone lines appear to be more useful, Yang said, because he's not
sure how many people use the Hmong language when depositing or withdrawing
money.

But "what Wells Fargo does is a good gesture and shows that the bank does care
about the community," he said. "It means a lot."

BRANCHING OUT

Banks are targeting non-English speaking customers, using a variety of ways to
reach out. Here's a sampling:

Wells Fargo Chinese language phone line: 1-800-288-2288

Wells Fargo automated phone line with Spanish option: 1-800-869-3557

U.S. Bank bilingual English/Spanish phone line: 612-872-2657 in the Twin Cities
or 1-800-872-2657.

Sheryl Jean covers financial services. She can be reached at
sjean@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5576.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CRAIG BORCK, PIONEER PRESS

The U.S. Bank Branch at 919 E. Lake St. in Minneapolis had employees who speak
18 different languages - from Spanish and French to Croatian and Russian- who
act as translators for customers. People come from as far away as Rochester to
do business at the branch because of the bilingual bankers. Teller Sharif Ahmed
chats with Osman Kassim Hussen, an immigrant from Oromiya (Ethiopia).

PHOTO:

Wells Fargo's Minnesota cash machines last May began offering Hmong -"Hmoob" -
among their language operations. The bank ahs considered addinh Hmong to its
national phone line, too.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 7, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

LATINO INITIATIVES OUTLINED
KELLY RESPONDS TO CONCERNS IDENTIFIED AT RECENT FORUM

BYLINE: ROBERT INGRASSIA, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


Touching on issues that ranged from education to business development to
immigration, St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly unveiled a grab bag of initiatives
Tuesday aimed at improving the lives of the city's burgeoning Latino population.

The mayor, speaking at a media conference at Plaza Latina on Payne Avenue, said
the programs were a response to concerns residents raised last month during a
Latino forum.

Kelly promised to press for an ordinance that would bar police officers and
other city workers from asking residents about their immigration status, unless
such questions were directly related to a criminal investigation or city
business.

"If a person is legally entitled to a city service, they should not be deterred
by their immigration status from seeking that service," Kelly said.

City Council Member Pat Harris intends to introduce the ordinance this month.
Kelly said the measure would formalize and expand a policy that the Police
Department has followed for several years. St. Paul's Latino population more
than doubled between 1990 and 2000, reaching nearly 23,000, according to the
latest census.

Kelly said he would lobby Mexican officials to open a consulate in the Twin
Cities, preferably in St. Paul. The mayor said he expressed the city's desire
for a consular office during a meeting Monday in St. Paul with two members of
Mexican President Vicente Fox's cabinet.

Kelly didn't address the issue of granting driver's licenses without regard to
immigration status, a hot-button issue that surfaced at the December forum.
Kelly once supported such an idea as a state lawmaker, but the Sept. 11, 2001,
terror attacks changed the political climate -- and now he presides over a city
government that has no power over driver's licenses.

On the economic development front, Kelly announced plans for a resource center
that would help Latino residents establish and operate businesses. He said he
intended to tap into two city programs -- a $250,000 minority business
development fund and a $200,000 "Main Street" initiative -- for money to launch
the business center.

Lending a hand to a West Side school, Kelly said the city would dedicate one of
its VISTA volunteers to Roosevelt Elementary School, where Latino children are
43 percent of the student body.

In addition, Kelly announced an effort to erect a monument honoring
Mexican-Americans who have served in the armed forces.

"As a community, we have neglected their contributions to the freedoms and
liberty each one of us enjoy," he said.

He said a community task force is studying designs for the monument, which a
private donor intends to help pay for. Kelly said he hoped a monument could be
built on Harriet Island in time for a dedication on May 5, the Cinco de Mayo
holiday.

Members of the Mexican American Amvets Post 5 joined Kelly in announcing the
project.

"Our deeds have largely been overlooked," said Henry Capiz, a retired Air Force
lieutenant colonel who served in World War II as an Army paratrooper. "We want
the public to know we served, too."

Robert Ingrassia can be reached at ringrassia@pioneerpress.com or 651-292-1892.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 9, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

ST. PAUL'S CHANGING NEEDS
KELLY GATHERS SUGGESTIONS IN COMMUNITIES OF COLOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 456 words


Like many cities throughout history, the face of St. Paul continues to change.
As many as 14,000 Lao and Hmong refugees will immigrate to the United States
this year; many are expected to join relatives already here. In 2002, more than
13,500 Somalia, East Indian and Mexican immigrants moved into Minnesota, which
was the largest increase in 20 years.

Flash backward. In 1860, St. Paul's largest number of foreign-born residents
were from Germany; the second largest foreign-born group was from Ireland,
according to the U.S. Census.

So change is the constant in the history of St. Paul, a fact not lost on Mayor
Randy Kelly, who announced initiatives this week that should answer some
concerns from the city's Latino residents. Early in his term, Kelly began
meeting with committees of American Indians, African-Americans, Hmong and
Latinos to hear how the city could serve the populations better. He met with
Latino representatives last month, and proposed initiatives this week to address
a few of their concerns. American Indian community members met on Wednesday;
this spring concerns will be heard from African-Americans and the Asian
communities.

We're glad the mayor has taken these steps to get to know his city better and
meet its needs. For example, at a December meeting with the Latino community,
residents expressed distress with the low graduation rates of Latino students.
Certainly the St. Paul School Board shares the concern, and we hope that the
same community members have addressed the school board.

However, a multipronged approach brought by many caring adults makes perfect
sense. Kelly wants to dedicate a VISTA volunteer to work full time with
Roosevelt Elementary School to help those kids improve reading skills as a
foundation to stay academically successful and in school long term.

Additionally, the city bars police officers and other city workers from quizzing
residents on their immigration status, except where that issue relates to a
criminal investigation or other city business. Kelly said he would seek a city
ordinance to formalize the policy. The idea is to encourage anyone living in St.
Paul who needs emergency services, for example, to feel free to call the police
without interrogation about their status.

Finally, many Latino residents asked for recognition of their armed forces
service, which might be manifested in a monument possibly to be placed on
Harriet Island. Also, Kelly will attempt to persuade Mexican officials to open a
consulate in the Twin Cities.

All of these ideas are preliminary, the way all ideas start. With support from
the City Council, the mayor's steps to hear and respond could make life better
for the latest waves of St. Paul newcomers.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 13, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

BUSH, FOX VOW TO WORK TO OPEN BORDERS

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON and SUSANA HAYWARD, Knight Ridder Foreign Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 434 words


MONTERREY, Mexico -- Mexican President Vicente Fox on Monday embraced President
Bush's plan to ease U.S. immigration laws, saying that the changes would improve
life for millions of Mexican workers in the United States.

Meeting at the start of a two-day Summit of the Americas, the two leaders agreed
to put aside past differences and work together on more open borders and
expanded trade. But other tensions remained as 34 leaders from throughout the
Western Hemisphere gathered in northern Mexico to look for ways to promote
democracy and economic development in the region.

Leaders from Brazil and Venezuela said they would try to slow Bush's push for a
free-trade agreement linking the entire hemisphere. Venezuelan President Hugo
Chavez, under pressure from the White House to cut his ties to Cuba's Fidel
Castro, arrived in a defiant mood.

Before leaving Caracas, Chavez said he would use the summit to "tell the world"
that Venezuelans would not tolerate what he called U.S. interference in his
country's affairs. Canada and the United States have joined forces to try to
block Chavez's push for a new humanitarian aid fund for Latin America.

Fox, whose opposition to the invasion strained relations with Bush, offered his
congratulations for the capture of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein. The Mexican
president also gave his strongest endorsement yet for Bush's immigration
proposal.

The plan, which falls far short of Fox's goal of an open border, would let as
many as 8 million illegal workers become legal by joining a new temporary worker
program. Although the plan is not limited to Mexico, the vast majority of
illegal workers in the United States came from Mexico.

"What we want is the plan presented by President Bush," Fox said, calling it "a
very important step forward" that would let illegal workers come into the open
with full legal rights.

Bush said the plan, which faces an uphill fight in Congress, "recognizes the
reality" of illegal immigration without rewarding illegal behavior by putting
foreign workers on a track to citizenship. Guest workers could apply for
citizenship, but they would have no advantage over any other foreigner.

"These are hardworking, decent, honorable people that are in our country to fill
jobs that others won't take," Bush said. "It seems to me like it make sense to
have laws that treat people with respect."

In another sign that the two are set to improve relations, Bush invited Fox and
his wife to meet at the U.S. president's ranch in March. Fox canceled a planned
2002 visit to protest the execution of a Mexican citizen.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ASSOCIATED PRESS

President Bush chats with Mexican President Vicente Fox on Monday at the Summit
of the Americas in Mexico.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 15, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION ARGUMENT NEEDS WORK

BYLINE: EDWARD LOTTERMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS; REAL WORLD ECONOMICS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 926 words


President Bush touched off a debate on immigration with his recent proposal for
changes in U.S. treatment of illegal immigrants. Just as it was 100 years ago,
immigration remains a core policy issue with myriad economic implications.

More than a million immigrants enter the United States each year. This number is
a bit higher than the levels common in the decade before World War I, though as
a proportion of the total population, a million new residents in 2004 are much
less significant than a million in 1904.

One important difference is that a century ago, virtually all immigrants were
legal ones. Today, about a third of all new residents each year arrive in
violation of U.S. immigration laws. Bush's recent proposals focus almost
entirely on this group rather than the much larger one that arrives with legal
blessing.

Examining all economic implications of immigration is a huge task. Let's focus
on the key issue the president raised. In his speech, Bush focused on the issue
of "jobs American citizens are not filling." This lies at the core of his
proposals for a guest worker program.

For someone with a Harvard MBA, the president showed remarkable economic naivete
in his assertion that "some of the jobs being generated in America's growing
economy are jobs American citizens are not filling." It implicitly assumed a
crucial missing clause. He should have said, "jobs Americans are not filling at
wages employers wish to offer."

Supply is not a question of physical quantities but rather a price-quantity
relationship. Jobs that U.S. citizens shun at a low wage could be highly desired
if employers offered higher pay. Do we need guest workers to fill jobs
absolutely no American will take -- or do we want to keep the wages of unskilled
workers low? We should address that question squarely rather than evade it.

Basic economic theory argues that immigration increases output because more
labor is available and because a greater labor force increases the productivity
of natural resources and of capital goods such as plants and machinery. It also
implies that if immigrants generally have lower education or skills than
native-born workers, the increase in labor supply will tend to depress wages for
most existing low-skill workers.

There not only will be more output, but also more output per resident, including
guest workers. The benefits of more production, however, will largely flow to
consumers rather than low-skill workers. We well may decide that the benefits to
winners from this tradeoff should trump the harm to losers, but let's be
explicit about it.

Economists who study immigration generally find that the implications of
economic theory are borne out in practice. Immigrants, legal and illegal,
increase U.S. production of goods and services on a per capita and an aggregate
basis. They also depress wage rates for existing workers at the lower end of the
income scale. African-Americans and other minorities make up a disproportionate
fraction of low-wage workers, and thus suffer greater harm from high immigration
than other Americans.

Earnings of low-wage workers have been stagnant or declining since the 1970s.
Some economists estimate that higher immigration accounts for about one-fourth
to one-third of the gap between actual low-skill wages and what they would be if
they had increased at the same rate as overall per capita income in the last 30
years.

Keep in mind that the increasing importance of technology over that period is an
even more significant factor in depressing earnings of low-skilled workers.
Increased imports also play a role along with a widening education gap between
lower- and higher-skilled workers.

Citizens who feel indignation at this outcome need to keep in mind that it is
consumers -- rather than employers -- who reap the bulk of benefits that
stagnant wages for low-skilled workers bring. The U.S. market is highly
competitive, and in such competitive markets, savings on input costs are
inherently incorporated in lower product and service prices. It is the broad
mass of middle- and upper-class Americans that benefits from increased
immigration -- not a small cadre of exploitive employers as many liberals
fantasize.

Indeed, employers frequently are caught in a bind. If there are no penalties for
employing illegal immigrants, some competitor inevitably will do so. Once a few
businesses employ illegal immigrants, they gain a cost advantage over those that
do not. It is competitive pressures, rather than avarice, that drives widespread
hiring of illegal immigrants.

Regardless of whether Bush's proposal is adopted, the reality is that workers
from other countries will continue to find the United States economically
attractive. A supply of potential immigrants will always be there, and recent
history shows the limitations of border patrols. If this nation wants to reduce
illegal immigration, it has to reduce demand. It would not be difficult to do so
if we had the political will to impose stiff fines on businesses that hire
illegal residents.

Employers whine about the difficulty of distinguishing job applicants who are
legally entitled to work from those who are not. With recent technology,
implementing a national worker I.D. card that is hard to counterfeit need not be
difficult. If Americans find that unacceptable on civil liberties grounds, we
need to accept the inevitable economic consequences.

Edward Lotterman is an economist and writer living in St. Paul. He can be
reached at elotterman@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     January 17, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

BUSH WANTS NEW CITIZENSHIP TEST
GOAL IS A CONSISTENT, MEANINGFUL EXAM

BYLINE: RICARDO ALONSO-ZALDIVAR, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 502 words


WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration has decided to revamp the civics test that
hundreds of thousands of prospective citizens each year must pass to become
Americans, and is developing a new exam, officials say.

President Bush alluded to the effort in his speech last week on immigration
reform, and this week the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services
convened a two-day conference of more than 100 immigrant advocates and academics
in Washington to discuss the principles for change and its implications.

The current test has long been criticized as a random collection of unrelated
details that conveys little of the significance of citizenship. But efforts to
change it elicit concern from immigrant advocates, who fear a new test could
become a barrier to citizenship.

"I don't want to make the test harder, and I don't want to make it easier -- I
want to make it more meaningful," said Eduardo Aguirre, director of the
citizenship agency, one of three new Homeland Security divisions that were part
of the former Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A question on the current test asks, "What are the first 10 amendments to the
Constitution called?" A hypothetical question on the new test might be, "What
does the Bill of Rights mean for you?" said another official.

Aguirre said he also wants to move toward a more standardized test. The current
test is an oral exam in which an examiner picks 10 or so civics questions from a
list of 100 included in a study guide. Therefore, the examiner's discretion can
result in lack of uniformity.

The government plans to develop a new civics test this year, try it out next
year and complete the switch in 2006, said an official with the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

In a related move, the agency is already experimenting with changes to the
English-language test that prospective citizens must also pass.

Nearly 574,000 people became U.S. citizens in 2002, the latest year for which
statistics are available. The law requires that people seeking citizenship show
that they can understand and speak basic English and demonstrate "a knowledge
and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of the principles and
form of government, of the United States."

The present version of the civics test dates from the mid-1980s amnesty program
for illegal immigrants. During the Clinton administration, a presidential
commission recommended that the test be replaced. The recommendation has
languished until now.

The current test "is just not coherent," said political scientist Noah Pickus,
director of the Institute for Emerging Issues in Raleigh, N.C., and an advocate
for changing the exam.

"You can make a coherent and meaningful examination by identifying what you
believe are the key principles in our history and government," he said. "The
first thing is to identify what really matters and then to realize that you are
trying to tell a story to a new citizen, to inspire and encourage them."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 18, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

OPENING DOORS
ST. PAUL MAYOR RANDY KELLY WILL PREPARE FOR A BIG INFLUX OF HMONG REFUGEES BY
LEADING A LOCAL DELEGATION TO THAILAND TO ASSESS THE IMMIGRANTS' NEEDS.

BYLINE: LESLIE BROOKS SUZUKAMOPioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 945 words


St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly announced Saturday he will travel to a Hmong refugee
camp in Thailand in March with a delegation from the city, county, public
schools and other organizations to assess the needs of thousands of Hmong who
are expected to begin relocating to Minnesota this summer.

Kelly said he wants to prepare St. Paul, already a center of the nation's Hmong
population, for what could become its next large wave of Hmong refugees. His
trip is believed to be the first by a St. Paul mayor to a Hmong refugee camp
before a major arrival.

Hmong community leaders, some of whom were on hand for the announcement at City
Hall, applauded the idea. But key figures with refugee resettlement agencies and
state Sen. Mee Moua, who is Hmong, represents St. Paul's East Side and is
involved in the resettlement efforts, said they were not told of the plans
before Saturday.

Kelly's seven-day trip, proposed for early March, reflects the importance he and
other civic leaders are placing on getting St. Paul and the state ready to
absorb potentially thousands of refugees at a time when the arrival of new
immigrants and refugees stirs resentment and fear among some people.

"I believe he's the only one -- the only mayor in the U.S. -- who is caring
about the refugees," said Ying Vang, executive director of Lao Family Community,
a Hmong mutual assistance agency in St. Paul.

The delegation hasn't been chosen but it will include about 15 people from
government, nonprofits, foundations, businesses, religious institutions, Hmong
community groups and refugee assistance organizations. Members will assess
everything from the health to the educational needs of 14,4000 refugees at the
camp at Wat Tham Krabok, a Buddhist monastery north of Bangkok where the Hmong
have been warehoused in dirt-floor shacks by the Thai government.

As many as 7,000 of them could relocate to St. Paul and the surrounding area to
reunite with family over an 18-month period, with the first arriving in August,
city officials say. Others say it's too early to know how many refugees will
come.

In a press conference at City Hall, Kelly laid out the rationale for the
resettlement. He recalled that Hmong soldiers assisted the United States during
the Vietnam War and pointed out how the Hmong population, estimated at more than
24,000 in St. Paul, has woven its way into the larger community by buying homes,
establishing businesses and maintaining strong families with old-fashioned
values.

"I think our city must once again open its door to our allies," he said.

Kelly acknowledged he could send an aide on what essentially is a fact-finding
mission but said he needs the hands-on experience so he can promote the benefits
of potential new neighbors to skeptical residents.

"We are going to be the spokespeople to the broader community," he said of the
group. "We need to speak with firsthand knowledge about why we need to do this,
about why it's important."

Ramsey County Commissioner Jim McDonough, who represents the city's East Side
where many Hmong live, will join the mayor on the trip. He was surprised by
recent conversations he's had with constituents who opposed the arrival of the
refugees.

He said he reminded them that Irish immigrants like his forebears faced
hostility when they arrived a century ago.

Kelly promoted St. Paul assistant city attorney Sia Lo, who is Hmong, to senior
policy adviser to help serve the city's Asian community. Lo, 38, was a refugee
when he arrived at age 10 and will make the trip.

St. Paul public schools Superintendent Pat Harvey said the schools will send a
small delegation of counselors and curriculum experts to assess the educational
levels of the children.

"We're in a learning curve right now," she said.

Harvey seemed uncertain if she would be part of the traveling group, but a
smiling Kelly took the podium immediately afterward and said, "Yes, the
superintendent is coming."

Kelly said donations expected from foundations and the private sector should
cover the majority of the cost of the trip. He said he's asked Northwest
Airlines to pick up the cost of air fare and hopes for an answer this week.

One of the first challenges St. Paul faces will be finding housing for all the
people, Kelly said. The mayor said he wants to meet with building trades, city,
county and state officials and others to brainstorm ways to speed up the
construction of affordable housing, though not necessarily public housing.

Kelly's announcement caught some people off guard. Tom Kosel, program director
of migrant and refugee services for Catholic Charities, a major resettlement
agency, was surprised his group wasn't briefed. Catholic Charities will be one
of the first stops any refugee will make, he said.

Still, he praised Kelly.

"That is, to me, a very, very excellent idea," Kosel said. "We want to make sure
that top community leaders are getting behind it."

Sen. Moua, DFL-St. Paul, was a little miffed she wasn't invited to the
announcement, but she praised the mayor's move. She has been in front of efforts
to smooth the resettlement, and, given the resistance she's encountered from
some residents, Moua said it might help if top non-Hmong officials step forward
as Kelly has.

It's too early to know, however, how many refugees from Wat Tham Krabok will
actually get approval to enter the United States, much less decide to move to
St. Paul, she said. The actual number could be smaller than the 7,000 figure
Kelly's administration is preparing for.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo covers telecommunications and technology. He can be
reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress. com or 651-228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 PHOTOS: BY JEAN PIERI, PIONEER PRESS

Danielle Lo plays with her aunt, Ong Thao of St. Paul, by covering her eyes with
a scarf while St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly speaks at City Hall on Saturday. Kelly
announced his plans to travel to a Hmong refugee camp in Thailand in March to
assess the needs of a new wave of Hmong refugees. Ong Thao came to the United
States in 1975.

Kelly bows in greeting to Hmong who attended his press conference at City Hall.
Kelly pointed out how the Hmong population, estimated at more than 24,000 in St.
Paul, has woven its way into the larger community.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 19, 2004 Monday CITY EDITION

CITY'S POLICE 'NOT THE INS,' MCMANUS SAYS LATINOS HEARTENED BY CHIEF'S COMMENTS

BYLINE: RUBEN ROSARIOPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


William McManus, the newly selected police chief of Minneapolis, vowed to a
packed Latino church congregation on Sunday that he will continue to honor an
existing police policy that prohibits city cops from working as de facto federal
immigration agents.

"The Police Department is not the INS, and we will not do their work for them,"
McManus said to strong applause from an estimated audience of 500 assembled
inside St. Cyril's Church in Northeast Minneapolis.

The area is home to an Ecuadorian and South American population, and Latinos are
the fastest-growing ethnic group in the city as well as the state.

Outgoing Chief Robert Olson instituted the policy, also adopted in many diverse
cities throughout the nation, in response to complaints from citizens, often
legal residents, who said police officers asked them for documents or contacted
federal immigration authorities following arrests or routine stops.

In McManus' first major public appearance following Friday's City Council
approval of his nomination, the new chief also expressed support of efforts to
make it easier for working and undocumented immigrants to obtain driver's
licenses for transportation, job and housing opportunities.

When a church member asked McManus about President Bush's plan to provide
three-year work visas to those already in this country, the chief said he
generally endorses the measure.

"Anyone that comes into this country to work should work, and they should not
have to do it under the radar screen," added McManus, the outgoing police chief
in Dayton, Ohio, who spent most of his career as an assistant chief in
Washington, D.C.

On police matters, McManus said he will not tolerate the conduct of any officer
who abuses or mistreats any resident.

"Don't let the actions of a few police officers fuel the perception that the
entire Minneapolis Police Department is bad, because it is not," he said. "We
will deal with the bad police officers, and celebrate the good ones."

Both McManus and Mayor R.T. Rybak, who also attended the event, briefly
addressed the crowd in Spanish in welcoming remarks.

McManus, whose wife is of Peruvian descent, had a distinct bilingual advantage.

"I feel very honored and at the same time humbled by the support I'm receiving
from all of you," McManus said in perfect Spanish.

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:

William McManus

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 19, 2004 Monday CITY EDITION

JEWISH IMMIGRATION IN SPOTLIGHT

BYLINE: KIM SURKANSpecial to the Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 501 words


The minute Stephanie Satie entered an English-as-a-second-language classroom as
a substitute teacher one evening in 1990, she knew she "had landed in a gold
mine."

Her students, a group of predominantly Jewish immigrants from Iran, Armenia and
the former Soviet Union, would become the real-life inspiration for the
characters in her one-woman show "Refugees."

The regional premiere opened in the Twin Cities over the weekend in a
performance sponsored by the Minnesota Jewish Theatre Company.

Satie plays 10 different people, seven women and three men, in this 90-minute
solo performance.

"Refugees" is less a portrait of each individual in Satie's classroom than an
investigation of the impact they had on her in understanding her own family
history.

As an assimilated American whose grandparents also immigrated, the character
Stephanie (a version of herself) begins to question the gaps, silences and shame
in her family's denial of their refugee status.

The play is structured scene by scene as a series of classes, with students
telling stories of their lives in broken English and gradually interacting with
each other as the play progresses.

Satie's Eastern European accents are the strongest, but the distinction between
characters often relies on the reiteration of their names in the script or
distinctive repetition of gestures or postures associated with each one.

Ranging in age from Farideh, an Iranian woman in her mid-20s, to Rima, a Latvian
who is almost 70, the characters narrate the difficult and sometimes even
horrific circumstances that led them to leave their countries for the United
States.

The men are the least developed, including Boris, a sexist and racist taxi
driver from Uzbekistan; Darioush, the Iranian husband guilty of domestic abuse;
and Mahmoud, the Iranian director of the language school who advises Stephanie
not to meddle in the personal lives of students.

"Refugees" is an ambitious and even compelling portrayal of the complexity of
the global community in which we live. Seen through the eyes of people driven
from their homelands, the play contextualizes the strong emphasis on family,
storytelling and tradition that we often observe in first-generation immigrants.

Satie's commitment to the preservation of each of these individual voices only
slightly compromises the final product. As a solo performance, it's a show that
would be tighter with one or two fewer characters.

Still, Satie's enthusiasm and love of these people shines through, making
"Refugees" an enjoyable and timely commentary on an increasingly diverse
America.

What: "Refugees," written by Stephanie Satie and directed by Anita Khanzadian,
presented by the Minnesota Jewish Theatre Company

Where: Sabes Jewish Community Center, 4330 S. Cedar Lake Road, St. Louis Park

When: 7:30 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday, 8 p.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. Sunday

Tickets: $15-$18

Information: 651-647-4315

Capsule: "Refugees" is one woman's take on a diverse America

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ONE-WOMAN SHOW REVIEW

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    January 21, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

OFFICIALS ASSESSING HMONG INFLUX
NUMBERS, NEEDS STUDIED BY PLANNERS

BYLINE: TIM NELSONPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 725 words


Ramsey County officials say they expect to accommodate about 3,000 of the
refugees headed to the United States from a Buddhist temple in central Thailand,
a new wave of Hmong immigration recently approved by the federal government.

County human services planner Jim Anderson, a former refugee camp worker in
Thailand, said the best estimate is that about 14,000 people will be forced out
when the Thai government eventually evicts the refugees from the Wat Tham Krabok
temple area.

"If the estimate of the number of people available for resettlement processing
is accurate, it's my very, very personal opinion ... about 10,000 people (will
be) coming to the U.S., and based on current populations, we could reasonably
expect about a third of all the refugees coming to the metro area," Anderson
said.

He said he doubted higher figures suggested by other officials last week.

"I think it's just unlikely that we would get half the camp here," he said, "and
I doubt that anywhere near everyone in the camp is coming to the U.S."

County officials said they hope to send an advance delegation along with the
trip that St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly has planned for this spring to try to
assess who is actually in the camp and how best to prepare for them back in
Minnesota.

Since the temple area isn't an officially recognized international refugee camp,
there is little information on the Hmong there, as there are in other camps
operated around the world under the auspices of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.

Public Health director Rob Fulton told the board on Tuesday that he expects a
delegation to Thailand to find a variety of immediate health needs, like
treatment for giardiasis, parasitic infections and tuberculosis cases that are
common among refugee populations. Health plans here in Minnesota will also
benefit from information about the people likely to be joining their rolls.

County officials said there are also likely to be a host of long-term issues to
address, such as the mental health needs of the prospective immigrants, their
educational attainment and their employment prospects.

But County Commissioner Jim McDonough said that the largest challenge is likely
to already be here in Minnesota.

"Housing is going to be huge, and it is really going to require stepping out and
thinking outside the box," said McDonough. His district has a large Hmong
population now.

Anderson said that traditional federal assistance, in the form of Section 8
vouchers, is unlikely to be much help, since there are already five-year waiting
lists for existing aid.

Health and human services officials nonetheless tempered their estimates
Tuesday, noting that there are few hard facts available about the refugees left
in Thailand -- many of whom fled their homes for fear of persecution for their
aid to the United States during the Vietnam war. Even estimates of the temple
population in the Thai media range as high as 20,000.

"We don't have a good feel for the numbers, and we don't have a good feel for
the time line," the county's director of intergovernmental relations, Terry
Speiker, told the board.

Many had fled other closing camps and sought refuge at the temple in central
Thailand, under the protection of a monk who enjoyed a close relationship with
the Thai royal family, Anderson said. Since the monk's death two years ago,
civil authorities in Thailand have moved to clear the area -- and potentially
send the Hmong back to Laos, where they fear persecution by the government.

"I think that there is somewhat of a natural reaction in some corners of this
community to look at this as another burden," Anderson said.

"I urge us all to consider just how critically important this is to our Hmong
community here: the opportunity for family reunification that people have spent
the last 20 years thinking would never arrive," Anderson said.

"Also, it is very clear that the status of these folks ... was extremely
fragile. Their situation and what was going to be happening to them, at the
mercy of the Thai government and eventually the Lao government, was filling our
community with a great deal of fear and concern ... I think we all need to
recognize how important and meaningful this is in our Hmong community here."

Tim Nelson can be reached at tnelson@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 26, 2004 Monday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANT FORUM BRIDGES LONG-STANDING GAPS

BYLINE: RUBEN ROSARIO, Pioneer Press Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 757 words


Two rows of seats were arranged in an inviting circle. The chairs, even on a
snowy morning, were soon occupied by a rainbow of Caucasian, Somali,
African-American, Latino, Ethiopian, Hmong and American Indian faces.

This United Nations-like gathering took place Friday at the appropriately named
International Institute of Minnesota, a short soccer-ball kick from the State
Fairgrounds -- the annual host to the so-called Great Minnesota Get-Together.

The faces on this day belonged to immigrants, legislative aides, representatives
from various social service agencies and nonprofits, and a handful of federal
immigration officials.

A mix such as this a few years ago would have begun with subdued tension,
followed by miscommunication, vented anger, allegations -- true or not -- and
finally end with frustration on both sides. Essentially, a verbal food fight
where little got accomplished.

"That's basically how most of them went," recalled Curtis Aljets, who recently
retired as local district director of the former INS, renamed the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. "It was really frustrating."

Enter Hector Garcia, a former Twin Cities securities executive who approached
Aljets with a better idea following a contentious and largely unproductive
session at a church in St. Paul.

"They were talking past each other rather than to each other," recalled Garcia,
then a member of the National Conference for Community Justice. The group,
formerly called the National Conference of Christians and Jews, was founded in
the late 1920s as a way to ease tensions between the two groups during a time of
heightened anti-Semitism. Garcia believed a similar format with modern day
applications was needed.

Four years later, the Immigrant Community Roundtable has grown into a highly
constructive venue for both federal officials, immigrants and others to discuss
issues, exchange information and find common ground in a productive and
respectful setting.

At Friday's session, participants learned about a growing scam in which some
landlords are extorting cash bribes between rental payments. Another scam, which
involves the multiple use of children's Social Security numbers to fraudulently
receive child credit refunds, is currently the subject of an ongoing probe by
local IRS investigators.

But another of the roundtable's crowning achievements today is a guide for newly
arrived immigrants that is being replicated in New York City and may possibly
become a national handout model for immigration offices nationwide.

The 73-page Immigrant Orientation Guide, available online, on video and in
print, is a series of primers on immigration status, police and 911 procedures,
basic housing, employment and civil rights. The guide is currently available in
English, Spanish and Somali.

"Many new residents are vulnerable to scams and ignorant of information that may
seem very basic to you and me," said Linda Miller, executive director of Civil
Society, a roundtable participant and St. Paul-based nonprofit legal group.
"This is a nonstop way for new residents to learn about many things they need to
know."

The New York Times and a city museum are underwriting a similar survival-type
guide in English, Spanish and Chinese that will become available to newly
arrived immigrants in the nation's largest city in March.

Although the Big Apple has historically been the gateway for generations of
immigrants, the Twin Cities have experienced a significant upsurge in the past
decade. Overall, foreign-born residents account for 5.3 percent of Minnesota's
population, double the percentage in 1990.

Garcia, Aljets and others believe the quarterly roundtable meetings are serving
as a way to help defuse the fear and distrust of immigrants following the events
of Sept. 11, 2001. It almost seems like the word "immigrant" has become an
exclusive catch phrase for terrorists or undocumented residents.

"I have some fear that a lot of people interpret it that way," says Garcia, who
left the corporate executive world to work as a self-employed cultural
consultant. "One of the goals we have is to better integrate immigrants into the
larger society. I don't mean assimilate, but to highlight the contributions of
immigrants, and how, as throughout our history, they have helped enrich the
community."

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

FYI

For more information about the Immigrant Community Roundtable or the Immigrant
Orientation Guide, call 952-933-8889.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      FEBRUARY 1, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

ZANEWOOD PRINCIPAL SHINES AS EXAMPLE
SHE UNDERSTANDS IMMIGRANT EXPERIENCE

BYLINE: Joe Nathan, Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; HOMEROOM; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 507 words


The life and career of Emily Acosta Thompson answers the question: "How can
immigration help our children and our schools?"

According to longtime educator Don Draayer -- who was named national
superintendent of the year in 1990 -- the new principal of Zanewood Elementary
School in Osseo represents a "forerunner of what America, indeed the world, will
become in the generations ahead."

Acosta Thompson's parents came to the United States from the Philippines after
World War II. Her father finished sixth grade, her mother fourth grade. Her
father drove a Jeep for American military during World War II, sometimes
chauffeuring for Gen. Douglas MacArthur.

Acosta grew up in San Diego's Logan Barrio Housing Project. She recalls little
money, but a lot of love. Her father insisted, over and over, that "education is
the highway to success." Though not a model student, she loved music.

The family saved a little money each week because they wanted music to be a part
of their children's education. Finally, they were able to buy a violin for
Emily. She excelled in music and, after graduating from college, she began to
teach it to youngsters.

On a family visit to Washington, D.C., she went on a blind date with a Marine
from Minnesota. They eventually married.

For more than 20 years, Acosta Thompson lived the military life, traveling the
world and teaching in Defense Department schools. Along the way, the couple had
four children.

The family returned to Minnesota about 10 years ago, and Acosta Thompson began
teaching music in St. Paul. Then the district named her principal of Adams
Spanish Immersion School.

Adams proved a success, and other immersion schools followed.

Draayer, who was superintendent in Minnetonka, believes that "much of Emily's
sensitivity to cultural conflicts and the role of a supportive environment in
helping people comes right out her own home and school experiences."

This year, the Osseo district recruited her to be principal at Zanewood -- one
of many suburban schools experiencing an influx of students for whom English is
a second language. Acosta Thompson knows what it's like to live within a modest
income and see immigrant parents deal with new challenges. And she knows that
"education is the highway to success" -- just as her father said.

Acosta Thompson knows many immigrant families are eager to succeed. She
encourages teachers to look at the strengths, resilience and assets of their
students, not just their deficits. Acosta Thompson recalls her best teachers
combined high expectations, respect for other cultures and lots of patience.

She knows that as we identify strengths and encourage immigrant youngsters,
they'll make real, lasting and sometimes huge contributions to our country.

Joe Nathan is director of the Center for School Change at the University of
Minnesota's Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs. He can be reached at
jnathan@hhh.umn.edu. Sound off on this column at www.twincities.com. Click on
Columnists and look for Joe Nathan's page.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      February 8, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

REAL ESTATE INDUSTRY SEES FUTURE IN MINORITY OWNERS

BYLINE: ALAN J. HEAVENSKnight Ridder News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; DIVERSITY; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 1343 words


Despite progress made over the last decade, the percentage of minority
homeowners still lags far behind the national average.

"Racial disparities in housing are alive and well in the United States," said
Stuart Gabriel, director of the Lusk Center for Real Estate at the University of
Southern California at Los Angeles. "It signals that something is wrong in this
land of plenty."

Yet, the real estate industry is pinning its hope for the future on minority and
immigrant buyers.

"Immigrants typically provide an initial stimulus to rental markets for their
first few years in the United States," said Michael Carliner, an economist for
the National Association of Home Builders. "After becoming established, they
become a major factor in the for-sale marketplace."

Since the 2000 Census, "it appears that immigration has accelerated, with a net
of about 1.5 million new immigrants coming to this country annually since the
beginning of this decade," Carliner said.

The builders' association's forecast of populations and household formations
projects a net flow of up to 1.7 million foreign-born people coming to this
country every year between 2002 and 2012.

Labor demands created by the retirement of baby boomers are likely to provide
economic and political influences supporting immigration, Carliner said. And
because of the demographic changes projected for the next decade, the long-term
outlook for construction of single-family homes is expected to be more favorable
than it was during the last decade.

Considering that Asia and Latin America are the chief sources of immigration,
concerns about the lagging minority homeownership rate run deep.

Gabriel, who spoke to a meeting of the National Association of Realtors in San
Francisco in November, said the substantial gap exists even though the Bush and
Clinton administrations have strived to close it.

"In 2002, the Bush administration announced a policy goal of adding 5.5 million
minority homeowners by the end of the decade," he said. "Under Clinton, the
Department of Housing and Urban Development specified a national homeownership
goal of 70 percent (it's now 68.4 percent), which implied a 15 percent reduction
in the gap between whites and minorities."

RACIAL GAP PERSISTS

Government policy over the last 75 years has made housing more affordable, with
the creation of the Federal Housing Administration in the 1930s, fixed-rate
mortgages, deductibility of mortgage interest, and the secondary mortgage
market.

"Yet despite changes in federal mortgage policy over the last 20 years, this gap
of 25 to 30 percentage points between Anglo and minority homeownership hasn't
changed at all," Gabriel said. "And racial segregation of neighborhoods remains
high in metropolitan areas."

The ability of cities to thrive and compete globally depends on the willingness
of communities to respond positively to growing diversity in demographics and
lifestyles, said James Johnson Jr., a professor at the Kenan-Flagler Business
School at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.

Over the latter part of the 20th century, U.S. immigration laws became more
liberal as civil-rights laws were enacted, resulting in a greater flow of
immigrants from Latin America and Asia than from Europe, Johnson said. "The
nation became a stew pot, rather than a melting pot," he said.

DOOR TO SUCCESS

Homeownership opens the door to success for immigrants and minority groups in
America, Gabriel said.

"It is the primary wealth-creating vehicle in the United States," he said.
"Elevated homeownership among minority households would boost their wealth and
economic status.

"Research shows that homeownership confers benefits to neighborhoods in the form
of improvements in property upkeep, safety, school quality and other amenities,"
he added.

Gabriel hypothesized that, if the socioeconomic status of minorities were raised
to that of whites, the homeownership gap could be closed. To test his
hypothesis, he used census data for Los Angeles, whose school district has
students who speak 100 different languages.

Gabriel studied data on white, African-American, Latino and Asian households
separately. The combined total of households in the study was about 150,000.

He found that, while income was important for all groups in determining the
likelihood of buying a home, it was most important for African-American
households.

"This suggests that blacks are more likely to increase homeownership as their
economic status improves," he said. "Equating the socioeconomic characteristics
of minorities and whites closes the homeownership gap by more than 70 percent."

There are other stumbling blocks to minority homeownership, and one is the
belief among real estate agents that African-Americans, Latinos and Asians only
want to deal with their racial or ethnic group.

Emily Fu, owner of Re/Max Greater Atlanta International, who emigrated from
China more than two decades ago, said: "When I came to this country, I was
scared. I didn't want to go to a real estate agent because I thought they were
all millionaires."

Realtors need to reach out, she said, noting: "There wouldn't be such a large
gap if we were willing to provide more education to our buyers."

REALTORS REWARDED

Studying different cultures would help real estate agents who deal with
immigrants, "but you don't have to learn their languages," she said. "You just
need to be patient and understanding. The rewards can be big."

Between 1990 and 2000, the U.S. population grew by nearly 33 million, with
almost half of that gain attributable to immigration, said Johnson, the North
Carolina professor.

With more baby boomers leaving the work force over the next few years and fewer
native-born Americans to replace them because of the lower birthrates that
followed the boom, immigrants are playing a critical role in maintaining
work-force productivity.

Latinos are dominating the influx of immigrants, and have now surpassed
African-Americans as the largest ethnic minority group in the United States,
Johnson said.

And they are increasingly moving to markets outside coastal areas such as
California, New York and Florida, long considered the prime "immigrant magnet"
areas, he said. New magnet markets tend to be smaller to medium-size markets in
the South Atlantic region, followed by communities in the West and a few in the
Midwest.

"A major geographic redistribution is under way, which has big implications for
population growth and development patterns," Johnson told a meeting of the Urban
Land Institute in San Francisco in November.

REBRANDING

As many as 10 million immigrants will reach their peak home-buying years in the
next decade, presenting lucrative opportunities for those in real estate who
target immigrant markets, he said.

The flow of immigrants has caused some major residential builders to change the
way they design, build and market homes and developments.

"We've had to rethink how we brand communities and reconsider our messaging,"
said Brent E. Herrington, vice president of DMB Associates, a Scottsdale, Ariz.,
developer of master-planned communities.

"For instance, suburban communities that are named, gated or built around a
single amenity, such as a golf course, are more apt to imply exclusivity rather
than inclusivity to immigrants," Herrington said. "That does not work well when
you are reaching out to a diverse market."

Because immigrant families tend to be more multigenerational, his company is
starting to include more access to social and health-care services within its
communities, and it is using more varied product designs, with more flexible
floor options, Herrington said.

When dealing with minorities and immigrants, agents should always expect the
unexpected, Fu said.

"One of my agents who works with Latino clients was talking to a buyer about
earnest money," she said. "The buyer asked if our company had a coin roller. It
seemed that she had been saving quarters for 10 years, and wanted to use them."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 15, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

DANGEROUS PASSAGE
A SPANISH ISLAND IS AT THE CENTER OF ILLEGAL ENTRY TO EUROPE FOR IMPOVERISHED
AFRICANS SEEKING A BETTER LIFE.

BYLINE: MATTHEW SCHOFIELD, Knight Ridder Foreign Service

SECTION: MAIN; Beyond the Headlines: Illegal immigration in Europe; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1042 words


ISLA FUERTEVENTURA, Spain -- The world's most desperate people call this desert
island "the Golden Trampoline," their springboard into the riches of Europe.

A holdover from Spain's colonial past, this narrow section of the Canary Island
chain is the closest piece of Europe to sub-Saharan Africa. As such, it's become
a favored, and dangerous, point of illegal entry into the European Union.

While illegal immigration is a more or less accepted, if debated, fact in the
United States -- President Bush has suggested a guest worker program that would
let many illegal immigrants become legal -- it's a confounding issue for much of
Europe.

In England, a recent poll by the Guardian newspaper showed that people were more
worried about immigration than the national economy. In Germany, newspapers
publish crime statistics in the same charts as immigrant populations. In France,
religious head scarves, in large part worn by Muslim immigrants, are called
divisive, and the National Assembly voted Tuesday to ban them in public schools,
along with other overt religious symbols.

Isla Fuerteventura -- a chain of dormant volcanoes surrounded by beaches -- has
become a front line in the conflict.

'HERE, THERE IS SO MUCH'

Every year for nearly a decade, the number of people smuggled here has grown,
ferried by a Moroccan mafia that charges up to $3,000 for the dangerous passage.

In two days in January, more than 400 sub-Saharan Africans were arrested trying
to reach the island. More than 8,000 are expected to make the trip before the
year ends.

"What is there that could stop us from coming?" asked Alima, 24, who didn't give
her last name. She's a rural Nigerian who made the trip recently so that her
baby girl, due in February, would be born a European. "Here, there is so much.
Where we come from, there is nothing."

In 1996, when migrants first started sneaking into Spain through the island,
most were from Morocco. Today, many come from Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Ivory Coast
and Congo and other nations with histories of horrors or current conflicts.

They arrive in pateras -- small, arrowhead-shaped fishing boats -- to an island
of 70,000 residents that's a trendy tourist destination but has lost two main
industries, fishing and tomatoes, to Moroccan competition and European
regulations. That leaves little work for those arriving, so they try to make it
to the mainland.

Ramon Paniagua, who as the deputy government delegate is the highest-ranking
Spanish official on the island, said officials had stepped up patrolling the
coast and installed heat-sensitive cameras that detect body heat 10 miles
offshore.

"With these, we see the pateras before they arrive," he said. "No one will
arrive without our knowledge."

They've built a new holding facility, where arrested migrants are held for up to
40 days, then deported or, if their home countries won't take them back,
released to the Spanish mainland.

Spain has increased its immigrant quotas, from 538,000 in 2002 to 1.1 million in
2003. Paniagua said laws expected within six months would increase those
immigration numbers again.

"You must remember, for us, this is a new problem," he added. "For so much of
the last century, Spain was a poor country, a country without freedoms, a place
young people sought to leave. If we are a destination now, it is because we now
have something to offer."

Still, he said, this trend is not good news.

"This is a social disaster," he said.

ISLAND OVERWHELMED

Human Rights Watch has been studying the situation here for years and has
determined that the island is overwhelmed by the migration problems, citing past
human-rights violations involving access to attorneys and translators, privacy
and health care.

Jesus Redondo Sanz, the chief of the National Police here, said officials had
had to open a detention camp; the previous detention center, the island's
abandoned airport terminal, was overwhelmed by the numbers, with interned
migrants sleeping shoulder to shoulder.

"This is known as the Isle of Tranquility," he said. "We don't have murder and
rape and robbery here. But we do have the pateras. And they concern us."

Most residents, he said, sympathize with those arriving. But all worry about how
they come.

More than 100 nautical miles of Atlantic Ocean lie between the Moroccan coast
and the long beaches here. Already this year, 20 bodies have washed up on the
beaches, and officials suspect that the ocean has taken many more. And each day,
pateras of shoddier quality arrive.

Often the hulls are made of single planks of flimsy wood more traditionally used
for vegetable crates, and the seams are sealed with tar.

For years, the 20-foot-long boats carried no more than 20 people on a trip.
Today they carry no fewer than 30. The boats, propelled by a single outboard,
float with no more than 10 inches of clearance above the waves.

Fuerteventura is known for strong trade winds, and the waters can be tricky even
for experienced sailors in good boats. Captains of pateras navigate the
nighttime ocean by following the lighthouse beam, and that beam is set on the
high point along the coast, an area of sheer volcanic cliffs. The danger is
obvious.

Just north of the lighthouse is a gap in the cliffs, a strip of black sand
beach. Here, Juan Perez, 82, has made a driftwood plank bench next to his small
house.

"When they come out of the waves, I tell the people to rest here," he said.
"They are freezing and starving. I bring them coffee and blankets. I call for
the police, but I know why they are here. They are human beings, looking for a
better life. Everyone deserves such a chance."

Gerardo Mesa Noda, the president of the Red Cross on the island, said the
migrants paid $750 to $3,000 each for these trips and had no idea of what the
trip entailed or what awaited.

"Desperate people are waiting by the thousands near the Moroccan coast to make
this trip," he said. "In many cases, they have no idea they are on their way to
an island. The smugglers only explain that they are being taken into Europe.

"But we will never stop desperate people by patrolling the coast. We must focus
on rescuing them, from the waters, the cliffs and their desperation."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CARLOS DE SAA, KNIGHT RIDDER TRIBUNE

Bodies of would-be immigrants wash up on shore in Fuertaventura, Spain. This
narrow section of the Canary Island chain is the closest part of Europe to
sub-Saharan Africa. As such, it's become a favored, and dangerous, point of
illegal entry into the European Union. More than 8,000 are expected to make the
trip before the year ends.

MAP: KNIGHT RIDDER TRIBUNE

Boats with smuggled Africans land on Fuertaventura

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 22, 2004 Sunday EARLY EDITION

IMMIGRATION KEY IN FIGHT FOR CONTROL OF THE SIERRA CLUB
ANIMAL RIGHTS, POPULATION CONTROL GROUPS HOPE TO GAIN BOARD MAJORITY

BYLINE: TERENCE CHEAAssociated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Beyond the Headlines: An environmental struggle; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 878 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- A fierce battle is brewing over the future of the Sierra Club,
and an unlikely issue is at the center of the debate: immigration.

A growing faction in the nation's most influential environmental group has urged
a stronger stance against immigration, calling the growing U.S. population and
its consumption of natural resources the biggest threat to the environment.

Past and present Sierra Club leaders say the anti-immigrant faction has teamed
up with animal-rights activists in an attempt to hijack the 112-year-old
organization and its $100 million annual budget.

"At stake is really the heart and soul of the organization," said Adam Werbach,
the club's president from 1996-98. "It's a sad attempt by a very small
special-interest group to take over the entire Sierra Club organization."

Some of the old guard has organized a movement called Groundswell Sierra to
oppose what they say is an attempted takeover by outside groups. Their opponents
responded with a lawsuit claiming the leaders are unfairly trying to influence
an upcoming board election.

Between March 1 and April 15, members will cast mail-in ballots to fill five
open seats on the club's 15-member governing board. The anti-immigration action
says it needs three more seats to control policy.

"It's a democratic process. To accuse these candidates of taking over the Sierra
Club is like accusing the Democrats of taking over the White House," said board
member Paul Watson, who co-founded Greenpeace and now heads the Sea Shepherd
Conservation Society.

Groundswell Sierra was formed after club leaders learned that Watson, who won a
seat as a petition candidate last year, spoke openly about a takeover attempt
during a speech at a conference on animal rights. Animal-rights activists have
agitated for the club to denounce hunting, fishing and meat consumption.

Club leaders say the anti-immigration debate has drawn in outsiders who want to
promote their agenda. The Southern Poverty Law Center, a Montgomery, Ala.-based
civil liberties group, has reported that extremist racist and anti-immigration
groups are encouraging their members to pay $25 to join the Sierra Club and vote
in the election.

In January, center co-founder Morris Dees said he would run for a board seat to
draw attention to the anti-immigration movement.

Groundswell Sierra is encouraging members to vote because less than 10 percent
of the club's 750,000 members have participated in recent elections, making it
easy to win board seats with relatively few votes.

Founded by Scottish immigrant John Muir in 1892, the San Francisco-based Sierra
Club, the country's oldest and largest environmental group, has traditionally
advocated for clean air and water and protection of wildlands and wildlife.

Despite its swelling ranks -- membership has grown by 50 percent over the past
decade -- the Sierra Club hasn't had much success at achieving its top priority
these days: stopping what members believe is an assault on the environment by
the Bush administration, said executive director Carl Pope.

"This administration has played by a different set of rules," Pope said. "If you
don't play by the normal rules, you can do a lot of damage -- even in three
years."

Immigration came to the fore in recent years as some members pointed out that
the United States consumes more natural resources than any other country. The
debate came to a head in 1998, when members voted by a 60-40 margin to remain
neutral on immigration.

But the issue has not gone away. In recent elections, several members who favor
tighter curbs on immigration have been elected to the board.

"Many environmentalists are not willing to deal with this very important issue,"
said board member Ben Zuckerman, a UCLA astronomy professor who co-founded a
network of club activists called Support U.S. Population Stabilization. "The
numbers need to come down. Legal and illegal immigration are at record-high
levels."

Many club leaders say an anti-immigration stance would alienate members as well
as allied progressive groups that represent immigrants and minorities.

"The Sierra Club is an inclusive organization," said Groundswell spokesman
Lawrence Downing, the club's president from 1986-88. "If the Sierra Club adopted
an anti-immigration policy, you've lost your constituency and your credibility."

In an unusual move last month, all 13 living former club presidents sent a
letter to the board demanding action to protect the club and endorse the
candidates nominated by the board.

Recently, the three most prominent candidates supported by the anti-immigration
faction filed a lawsuit seeking to bar the organization from using club
resources to back certain candidates.

Board President Larry Fahn called the lawsuit an attempt to "muzzle the
leadership."

Watson and his allies say the group's ruling elite is simply afraid of losing
power.

"I think there's a group that's trying to protect their turf," said David
Pimentel, a candidate supported by the anti-immigration faction. "They want to
run it their way from the inside."

Online: Sierra Club: www. sierraclub.org

Sierra Groundswell: www. groundswellsierra.org

Support U.S. Population Stabilization: http://www.susps.org

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: DINO VOURNAS

Paul Watson

Photo: CHRISTINE PAOLUCCI

Lawrence Downing

Graphic: Associated Press

Sierra club infighting

Highlights of the Sierra Club's history and annual membership

(see microfilm)

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     February 24, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

LATINOS GET THE MOST NEW JOBS

BYLINE: ANASTASIA USTINOVAWashington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 396 words


WASHINGTON -- Latinos landed a disproportionate share of new jobs created last
year, and most of those jobs went to very recent immigrants, according to a
private foundation's report issued Monday.

More than half of the jobs were in construction, and most of the rest were in
agriculture and business services -- much of it low-paying work requiring little
English language skill. The Washington, D.C.-based Pew Hispanic Center, a
nonprofit research group, found the gains greatest among Latinos who arrived in
the United States after 2000. The findings are based on an analysis of Bureau of
Labor Statistics and Census Bureau data.

Overall, the number of employed Latinos rose by almost 660,000 between the
fourth quarter of 2002 and the fourth quarter of 2003. The total was 17.7
million, which included unknown numbers of illegal workers.

By comparison, the non-Latino work force, which consisted of 121 million workers
at last year's end, scored a net increase of 371,066 jobs.

According to Harry Holzer, professor of public policy at George Washington
University in Washington, employers prefer "more appreciative and less
demanding" immigrants.

"It is a form of discrimination, in a way, in favor of the foreign-born
workers," said Holzer, who studies ethnicity and low-wage work.

In 2003, Hispanic unemployment declined from a June peak of 8.2 percent to 6.6
percent in December, Pew reported.

By comparison, according to the recent study by the National Urban League, the
unemployment rate for African-Americans was 10.3 percent in December 2003. It's
been in double digits for the past 14 months.

William Spriggs, co-author of the Urban League study, said job growth for
Latinos wasn't a factor in the higher unemployment rate for African-Americans.
His report concludes that Latinos and African-Americans generally compete in
different job markets.

Among Hispanics, unemployment jumped to 7.3 percent in January 2004 as more
Latinos entered the job market, according to the Pew report. African-American
employment rose to 10.5 percent.

For the nation as whole, unemployment rose to 5.7 percent in December 2003 and
5.6 percent in January 2004.

Pew's study found that employment for Latinos born in the United States
increased, but by far less than for new arrivals. Gains among Latino males were
much greater than among Latino women.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    February 26, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION
                              Correction Appended

HMONG WONDER ABOUT FUTURE
REFUGEES ARE AWARE OF ANTI-IMMIGRANT SENTIMENT IN U.S.

BYLINE: Tim Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1586 words


WAT THAM KRABOK, Thailand -- You might think the Hmong are practically a pariah
people.

They fled ethnic persecution in China in the 19th century and settled in
neighboring Laos. There, the Hmong fought the Pathet Lao and the North
Vietnamese, then fled for their lives when Laos fell to the Communists in 1975.

And in Thailand today, thousands of Hmong are considered illegal immigrants,
hangers-on, heroin addicts and drug traffickers. The name of the army unit
guarding the refugee camp at Wat Tham Krabok translates to, "The Office for
Solving the Hmong Problem." Thais living in the Nakhon Phanom province staged
public rallies last year to protest the government's plan to establish a Hmong
refuge there, according to the Bangkok Post.

And now, even from 8,200 miles away, the 14,000 refugees who remain in Thailand
are earning enmity in Minnesota, before they've even set foot out of Saraburi
province.

"I see the Hmong population that is here," Eric Weingartner, a Blaine resident
who works in St. Paul, wrote in a recent e-mail to Mayor Randy Kelly, the City
Council and the Pioneer Press. "Do these people know that the majority of the
citizens in St. Paul do not want them here? Not because we are narrow-minded or
prejudiced as one might think, but because there is nothing for them here. Well,
more like there should be nothing for them here, when Americans that were born
in this city are now living on its streets."

On Friday, Kelly and a delegation of 19 others depart for a visit to the camp at
Wat Tham Krabok in anticipation of possibly thousands of new Hmong refugees
reaching St. Paul beginning later this year.

Ramsey County Commissioner Jim McDonough, who will join the delegation, said he
regularly gets calls and voice-mail messages expressing similar sentiments --
and some even worse.

"It's probably some racism there," McDonough said. "Another perception is that
they're getting all these great benefits and money -- which they're not. But
that's out there anyway."

Chu Wu, director of the Upper Midwest Community Policing Institute, says the
Hmong are facing the same stereotypes and prejudice that immigrants and refugees
have always encountered in America.

"They've got to be ready to face all kinds of public ridicule because they're
new and have little knowledge and don't know the history here," said Chu Wu.
"The public is not well aware of their situation."

And even 13 time zones away, some of the people at Wat Tham Krabok seem to be
wondering if the invitation from America is entirely sincere, even if it is
official government policy.

"We hear of it a little," said Pa Cher Yang, discussing anti-immigrant sentiment
in the United States and speaking through a translator Wednesday.

He is the elected leader of the Hmong who have been living outside a Buddhist
temple north of Bangkok since Thailand closed its last official refugee camp in
1992.

Pa Cher Yang is no stranger to diffidence. After fighting with Hmong forces for
12 years to cut North Vietnam's supply line along the Ho Chi Minh Trail during
the Vietnam War, he says, he stayed in the jungle until 1984, fighting the
Communist Lao government.

"No other countries would help us," he said, "so we had to leave. We had no
choice."

And now he and his fellow refugees will soon have to leave again, as Thailand is
threatening to evict them. He concedes that the Hmong will need help when they
make it to the United States, help from private social service agencies and the
government.

He says he hopes it will be enough, but notes that even he would prefer the
situation be different.

"It's not like we just woke up one day and said, 'Oh, we need to go to the U.S,'
" Pa Cher Yang said. "If it were the past, we would choose to stay here. Since
we were born in Asia, we would rather be here. But our children have no
opportunity here. Things get worse and worse all the time."

Charlie Yang, on the other hand, says he fears Americans have forgotten what the
Hmong have already done for them during the Vietnam War.

"A lot of Americans don't remember the situation, that the Hmong were saving
American lives during the war," said Charlie Yang, who was back in Thailand to
tend to his dying mother.

A nephew of Gen. Vang Pao, leader of the Hmong resistance in Laos, Charlie Yang
was a college student in Vientiane when Laos fell to the Communists in 1975 and
he had to flee the country.

Vang Pao commanded as many as 40,000 fighters between 1957, when the United
States began covert support of the Hmong in Laos, and until the nation signed a
peace treaty with Vietnam in 1973.

Vang Pao and his fighters tried to interrupt the flow of arms and men to North
Vietnam along the Ho Chi Minh Trail, rescued downed American fliers and fought
as American allies during the war in Southeast Asia.

"The CIA-supported Hmong were doing most of the serious fighting in Laos,"
according to a U.S. State Department history of the war there.

"I wish the American people would remember that," Charlie Yang said.

Now, however, the sons and daughters and grandchildren of those fighters are the
living reminders of the struggles the Hmong have waged for centuries, without a
country to call their own. They have been forced from their homes in Laos,
denied citizenship by the Thai government, unable to work legally or send their
children to school and living in a squatter's city an hour and a half north of
Bangkok.

Mai Yee Chang, a 30-year-old mother of seven living in the camp, said this week
that she just hopes the end of her family's journey is near. Her brother, Chong
Chang, lives in Maplewood and she hopes to be reunited with her parents, Yang
Dang Chang and Young Hang, as well.

"I have no idea," she said, when asked what she thought Americans felt about her
and fellow refugees heading for the United States.

"I just don't want to sew anymore," she added, through a translator, as she sat
at her sewing machine, working on a pile of children's clothes. "I would like to
work in an office. I am fed up with sewing and sewing for the last 20 years."

Angelique Soenarie contributed to this report.

Tim Nelson is in Thailand for coverage of the planned resettlement of up to
14,000 Hmong in the United States. He can be reached at bytimnelson@hotmail.com.

Recent history of the Hmong

Throughout their history, Hmong people have fled persecution as an ethnic
minority.

1946: Laos, long a part of the French colony known as Indochina, gains quasi-
independence in the wake of World War II.

1950: Laos is officially recognized as an independent nation by the United
States and Great Britain. The country is to remain riven, however, by the
presence of Vietnamese troops, the nationalist Pathet Lao organization and rival
ethnic groups.

1954: French forces completely withdraw from Laos and are later replaced by a
secret U.S. military mission in Vientiane, the capital.

1957: The Royal Lao Army proves ineffective against nationalists and Communists
allied with neighboring North Vietnamese. Hmong general Vang Pao takes up the
battle, with covert military aid from the United States.

1962: A peace conference in Geneva calls for a cease-fire and the withdrawal of
foreign troops. Neither the Vietnamese nor the United States fully complies and
fighting eventually resumes, parallel to the war in Vietnam.

1965: The United States sends in Green Berets and South Vietnamese troops to
battle the North Vietnamese using the Ho Chi Minh Trail, a key supply route
through Laos.

1966: As many as 40,000 Hmong troops are fighting the Vietnamese and Pathet Lao,
often from behind enemy lines. "The CIA-supported Hmong were doing most of the
serious fighting in Laos," according to the U.S. State Department.

1968: Peace talks begin between the United States and North Vietnam in Paris.
The civil war in Laos begins a long period of stagnation, seesawing.

1973: An agreement to end the Vietnam War, signed in Paris, is followed by a
cease-fire agreement in Laos. That agreement and a revolution in Thailand, where
the United States based many of its Laos air missions, ends U.S. air support and
deals a crippling blow to the Hmong.

1975: The Communists take over Laos, and Gen. Vang Pao agrees to leave the
country. The Hmong are declared "enemies of the state" by the Lao government,
which eventually enlists the North Vietnamese troops to raze entire Hmong
villages in northern Laos. Hundreds of thousands of Hmong flee their native
country on foot to camps set up in Thailand and eventually emigrate to the
United States, France and Australia.

1992: Ban Vinai, the largest and final officially sanctioned refugee camp in
Thailand, closes. Many of the remaining Hmong head to Wat Tham Krabok and
establish an illegal settlement there.

2002: Contending the Hmong are economic migrants, rather than refugees, and
responding to reports of drug trafficking among the Hmong at the Wat Tham Krabok
temple compound, the government of Thailand proposes to break up the refugees
and resettle them across Thailand.

2003: The Thai government stations troops at the camp and announces plans to
close it and send the occupants to the United States or anywhere else that will
take them. Late in the year, the United States agrees to take most of the 14,400
residents registered with the Thai army.

Sources: U.S. State Department, Library of Congress, the Bangkok Post

On Page 7A: U.S. State Department and Hmong

officials set for historic meeting today.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Journey to a New Land

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2004



CORRECTION: In a report Thursday from the Wat Tham Krabok camp where Hmong are
living in Thailand, Charlie Vang's name was misspelled.
Saturday, February 28, 2004

GRAPHIC: 4 PHOTOS: BY JOHN DOMAN, PIONEER PRESS

1. Above: A young Hmong couple walk aimlessly in Thailand's Wat Tham Krabok
refugee compound, an umbrella shielding their baby from the blistering Thai sun
in the 95-degree heat. The compound -- and its 14,000 residents -- is ringed by
barbed wire.

2. Right: Mai Yee Chang, a 30-year-old mother of seven, hopes the end of her
family's journey is near. She has family in the Twin Cities, she said Wednesday
while making Hmong outfits for export to the United States.

3. Charlie Yang

4. Pa Cher Yang, the elected leader of the Hmong living at the Wat Tham Krabok
refugee compound, on Wednesday talks about U.S. immigration and what refugees
might face in America.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       MARCH 1, 2004 Monday CITY EDITION

HMONG CAMP REFUGEE CENSUS MOVES AHEAD
FIRST ARRIVALS IN U.S. ARE POSSIBLE BY END OF MAY

BYLINE: Tim Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1793 words


WAT THAM KRABOK, Thailand -- The administrative effort to move thousands of
Hmong refugees to the United States from a squatters' camp outside a Buddhist
monastery here is expected to begin its second full week today.

After starting to fill out departure paperwork for 500 refugees in the first
week, officials in Thailand hope to do the same for 300 refugees a day, and say
the first arrivals may step onto American soil before June.

"By the end of May, we may start putting people on the plane," said John Savage,
a United Nations resettlement officer.

There are believed to be more than 14,000 people at the camp near the Tham
Krabok monastery, about 70 miles north of Bangkok. It isn't clear how many may
come to Minnesota, but Hmong families in the Twin Cities have submitted interest
forms to sponsor resettlement of 4,000 relatives now living at the temple, John
Borden, casework supervisor at the International Institute of Minnesota, said
Sunday, in Bangkok.

The institute is only one agency involved in the process in the United States,
and Borden said about half the people named on such forms in the past have
actually settled in Minnesota.

Gen. Vang Pao, the longtime military leader of the Hmong, said last week that as
many as 45,000 more of his people may could be stranded as illegal immigrants in
Thailand, but resettlement workers reiterated that only those in the Tham Krabok
camp will be offered new homes in the United States.

Andrew Hopkins, a registration officer with the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees office in Geneva, said the process is based on a registration list
drawn up in August by the Thai government. "Basically, if you're not on the
list, you're out," he said.

Hopkins noted, however, that there hasn't been any indication of large numbers
of people who want to leave but didn't get on the list. "This isn't bringing in
droves of people from northern Thailand, trying to get in," he said.

Still, there are some glitches that have yet to be ironed out, like the omission
of close relatives of people from the Thai government registry.

Keeping families together is among the U.N.'s top priorities, according to
Savage, the agency's Bangkok-based resettlement officer. That will be no small
feat: One refugee showed up for registration at the 2-acre processing compound
with 20 children and three wives. Officials counted 46 people in the immediate
family.

They and the rest of the refugees will go through as many as a dozen more steps
before they're cleared to go to the United States, Savage said.

Despite those complications, things are going well, officials said.

"The process is pretty orderly," said Hopkins, who is among a handful of relief
officials working at the edge of Tham Krabok.

They are attending now to what amounts to a census of the refugees, recording
names and family information, taking pictures and gathering initial data. A
delegation of Minnesotans, led by St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly, will begin their
own fact-finding visit to the camp Tuesday.

Some of the resettlement steps are administered by the Geneva-based
International Organization for Migration, which has a contract with the U.S.
government to handle parts of the resettlement process.

The organization, for instance, will administer urine tests to the refugees
twice to check for illicit drug use. The Hmong who test positive will not be
permitted to go to the United States.

The migration organization will also administer medical examinations and check
for diseases like tuberculosis and AIDS. Medical personnel in Thailand will
treat what ailments they can, but refugees who suffer from AIDS, if any, will
have to sign a waiver from the U.S. government. That will not exclude them from
public support or treatment in the United States, relief officials said.

Refugees will eventually go through the asylum-seeking process with the U.S.
State Department, which already has personnel at the site, in a fenced compound
built behind a three-story medical clinic at the edge of the camp.

Immigration officials from the Department of Homeland Security are scheduled to
interview the Hmong later in the process.

Although relief officials say the Hmong have been officially approved for
resettlement in the past at a proportionately high rate compared to other
refugee populations, it isn't clear how many of the people at Wat Tham Krabok
will be able to clear all the hurdles between Thailand and Minnesota.

It also isn't clear what will happen to those who might decline to leave or who
aren't approved for resettlement by U.S. authorities.

The government in Thailand has announced its intention to evict the Hmong from
their camp at Tham Krabok and has explored options to move them elsewhere in the
country, but has met with resistance among local Thai.

Advocates fear some Hmong may be repatriated to Laos, where the Hmong have been
fighting an insurgency against the Communist government for nearly 30 years.

Those that are eventually approved to emigrate will have a few more steps to
climb before they leave. They are scheduled for a week of cultural orientation
classes offered by the International Organization for Migration, and then and
administrative "departure clearance" with the Thai government.

Eventually, they'll board buses and head for the airport in for Bangkok.

Although they are often offered discounted airfare, few refugees can afford the
thousands of dollars it costs to fly their families to America. Relief officials
say refugees usually sign promissory notes for long-term loans from the U.S.
government to pay for their airfare.

MAYOR KELLY'S ITINERARY

St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly and 18 others are in Thailand to plan for the influx
of potentially thousands of Hmong living in the Wat Tham Krabok refugee camp
that is likely to close later this year.

Today: Meet with Committee for Wat Tham Krabok Affairs, U.S. ambassador to
Thailand and others.

Tuesday: Travel to the Wat Tham Krabok temple compound for a daylong visit. Meet
with Hmong leaders to discuss purpose of visit, tour temple.

Wednesday: A second visit to the temple compound.

Thursday: In Bangkok, meet with Committee for Wat Tham Krabok Affairs. Cultural
visit to the world-famous Grand Palace, ride the Chao Phraya River, visit
Floating Market.

Friday: Depart for United States.

REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT

The refugee resettlement for thousands Lao and Hmong residents of Wat Tham
Krabok in Thailand may have a significant impact on the Twin Cities. Some of the
key points faced by the refugees in the coming months include:

WHO IS ELIGIBLE

Any Lao or Hmong registered with the Royal Thai government as of August and
recognized as living at Wat Tham Krabok, a Buddhist temple 70 miles north of
Bangkok, can apply for resettlement. Those living outside the compound will not
be eligible to apply.

WHEN TO APPLY

Registration is expected to begin in the next month or two at the temple.

COST

Participation is free and there is no charge to register and be considered for
resettlement.

HOW TO HELP

Twin Cities residents who want to sponsor relatives for resettlement from the
temple compound can fill out a "refugee interest card" at one of the agencies
that assists with refugee resettlement:

-- Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota, 612-879-5305, www.lssmn.org

-- Catholic Charities of St. Paul and Minneapolis, 651-222-3001, www.ccspm.org

-- International Institute of Minnesota, 651-647-0191, www.iimn.org

Filing the form can help speed the process, advocates say, but those who do
should make sure the information they put down is accurate and complete because
government agencies will check it thoroughly throughout the process.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

The U.S. State Department has given these answers to questions about
resettlement of Hmong and Lao living in Wat Tham Krabok refugee camp.

Q: Can Hmong-Lao who lived outside of Wat Tham Krabok, or who previously lived
in refugee camps, apply for this program?

A: No. Only those registered and living at Wat Tham Krabok in August 2003 are
eligible.

Q: Will there be a drug test for applicants?

A: Yes. All applicants over 14 will be tested for opiate and amphetamine use.

Q: If parents test positive for drugs, can their children still go to the United
States?

A: A person who tests positive for drugs will be excluded, but this would not
necessarily mean other family members would be excluded as well.

Q: If a registered Hmong-Lao is married to a Thai national, can the couple
apply?

A: Yes.

Q: If a Hmong-Lao lived in Wat Tham Krabok for years but left before the
registration, can he or she participate?

A: No.

Q: What about a person who was living at Wat Tham Krabok but did not register
last year?

A: They would not be eligible.

Q: When will the first Hmong-Lao families arrived in the United States?

A: We cannot provide a specific date. But we expect that some Hmong-Lao will
begin departing this summer.

Q: Will there be assistance for refugees arriving in the United States?

A: Every refugee approved for resettlement must have a U.S. voluntary agency
sponsor. If a refugee has relatives in the United States and would like to be
placed in the same community with them, they should tell U.S. government
interviewing officials during the interview process and provide the name and
address of their relatives in the United States.

Q: Will those accepted for resettlement have to pay for their plane tickets?

A: Yes. Refugees resettled in the United States must sign a note promising to
pay back the cost of their plane tickets. Refugees are asked to begin repaying
the transportation costs several months after they arrive in the United States.
Payments are made in small monthly amounts and continue until the loan is paid
off. All refugees are expected to repay this loan.

Q: Can unaccompanied minors be resettled in the United States?

A: These situations will be treated on a case-by-case basis. Unaccompanied
minors resettled in the United States are provided guardians and usually
resettle with foster families.

Q: Does a person need a form from a United States relative to be resettled in
the United States?

A: No.

Q: What if a Hmong-Lao prefers Thai citizenship. Is it possible?

A: The Thai government says this is not possible.

Q: Will the United States accept the entire Wat Tham Krabok population?

A: There is no limit on the number of Hmong-Lao registered as of August 2003
that the United States will accept under this program.

Staff writer Todd Nelson contributed to this report. Tim Nelson can be reached
at bytimnelson@hotmail.com. Staff writer Todd Nelson is also in Thailand. He can
be reached at todd-nelson@hotmail.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: JOURNEY TO A NEW LAND

NOTES: See related story: "U.S., LAOS MOVE ON FROM OLD WAR"

GRAPHIC: 2 PHOTOS: JOHN DOMAN, PIONEER PRESS

1) Hmong wait at the edge of Wat Tham Krabok to meet with United Nations relief
officials about the registration process to travel to the United States.

2) Children play in and around Wat Tham Krabok camp's only garbage Dumpster. "I
want to have a brighter future, especially for my children," one father said
through an interpreter. "Right now, they can't go to regular schools and they
can't live in Thailand legally. They would never be able to work."

PHOTO

Randy Kelly

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       March 5, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

RAMSEY COUNTY BRIEFING

SECTION: LOCAL; RAMSEY COUNTY BRIEFING; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 734 words


ST. PAUL

7 SEX OFFENDERS FACE DEPORTATION

Seven convicted sex offenders were arrested in St. Paul on Thursday and, as
non-U.S. citizens, now face deportation.

The arrests were part of Operation Predator, a federal initiative aimed at
protecting children from sexual predators. Agents from the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement's Bloomington office have arrested about 70 people from 21
countries since Operation Predator began in July, said Tim Counts, the office's
spokesman.

Immigrants can be deported if they are convicted of an aggravated felony, Counts
said.

"We welcome immigrants to the United States, most of whom become productive,
law-abiding members of our communities," said Mark Cangemi, special agent in
charge of the Bloomington office. "But when people who are guests here sexually
abuse the most vulnerable among us ... we will remove them from the country
(when they are convicted)."

The seven men, all of whom were convicted in Minnesota, except for Kao Yang,
will have the option of requesting a hearing before a federal immigration judge.

They are: Danny Brachtendorf, 31, from Germany, for receiving child pornography;
Fayroth Luangphonh, 31, from Laos, for forcing a relative to have sex with him;
Hung Thanh Nguyen, 36, from Vietnam and Kou Thao, 27, from Laos, for arranging
for girls to have sex for money; Ger Vue, 28, from Laos, for having sex with a
15-year-old girl; Yang, 37, from Laos, convicted in Wisconsin for second-degree
sexual assault of a child; and Lee Xiong, 23, from Laos, for forcing a
15-year-old girl to have sex with him.

-- Mara H. Gottfried

ST. PAUL

Fugitive on state list is arrested

A man on the Minnesota Department of Corrections' Most Wanted Fugitives list was
arrested in St. Paul Wednesday night.

Members of the U.S. Marshals Service's East Metro Fugitive Task Force found
Angelo M. Wagner, 33, in a Selby Avenue apartment at about 9 p.m.

Wagner, convicted in Hennepin County for second-degree assault, was wanted for
violations of his supervised release.

He was convicted after pointing a handgun at a friend and demanding money in
1997, the Corrections Department said. Wagner was said to have handcuffed the
man, duct-taped his ankles, pistol-whipped him and burned various parts of his
body.

Wagner had been listed as a fugitive since April. In December, a new warrant for
second-degree drug possession in Hennepin County was issued for Wagner.

On Thursday, Wagner was being held without bail at the Hennepin County jail.

People are selected for the list of the 12 most wanted fugitives in the state
based on the egregiousness of their crime and the chance that they'll reoffend,
said Cari Gerlicher, director of the Corrections Department's special
investigations office.

When someone is added to the list, they stay there until they're apprehended,
Gerlicher said. With Wagner's arrest, there was a blank space on the Web site --
info.doc.state.mn.us/fugitive -- Thursday afternoon.

But that spot should be filled soon considering that, on average, there are 280
to 300 people with warrants for supervised release violations at any given time,
Gerlicher said.

-- Mara H. Gottfried

ROSEVILLE

'Maternal' bank robber suspected

A woman who robbed a St. Paul bank two weeks ago carrying what appeared to be a
baby may have struck again, this time in Roseville.

At about 3 p.m. Thursday, the suspect entered the TCF National Bank at 2100 N.
Snelling Ave. and demanded money from a teller, according to the FBI.

She obtained an undisclosed amount of money and was last seen leaving the area
in an older-model dark-blue Buick.

Described as a black female standing about 5-foot-5 and weighing about 140
pounds, the woman also is suspected of robbing the TCF Bank at 1601 Randolph
Ave. in St. Paul, according to the FBI.

Security cameras show the suspect in that Feb. 20 robbery carrying what
witnesses described as several light-colored baby blankets.

In Thursday's robbery, the suspect was wearing a dark-colored knit ski hat or
headband, dark large-framed glasses, blue jeans and an orange shirt with a black
leather jacket.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the FBI at 612-376-3200, the
Roseville Police Department at 651-484-1700 or Crime Stoppers at 651-45-CRIME. A
reward is being offered for information leading to the arrest and conviction of
the robber.

-- Lenora Chu

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      March 6, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

SOCCER COACH COULD BE DEPORTED

BYLINE: Mara H. Gottfried, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


A St. Paul high school soccer coach and Cameroon national afraid of persecution
in his native county lost his latest motion to stay in the United States and
could be deported while he awaits appeal.

Immigration agents arrested Stanley Akum Akopi, 40, in December and he has been
in jail since. He had been living in the United States illegally since his
student visa expired in 1992.

"The coast is clear to go ahead and remove him," said Tim Counts, spokesman for
the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Bloomington office. Counts said
he couldn't comment on the time frame for Akopi's deportation.

Akopi's father and other relatives were allegedly killed or persecuted because
of their political opposition to the government of Cameroon, in West Africa.
Akopi also protested the administration and is fearful about what will happen to
him if he returns, said his wife, Cayle Akum.

A federal immigration review board in October upheld earlier denials of Akopi's
request for political asylum. A warrant for Akopi's arrest was issued because he
didn't appear for a deportation hearing.

Akopi's wife and lawyer have said Akopi didn't receive the letter because it was
sent to a prior St. Paul address. Government officials have said they didn't
receive notification about a change of address.

Last week, a federal appeals court denied Akopi's request to delay his
deportation while his appeal is considered.

"The appeal is still going forward, but he still could be sent back to a place
he fears," said Akopi's attorney, Barton Winter.

Akopi's wife, a U.S. citizen, said it would be a hardship on the family if her
husband were deported.

While Cayle Akum worked, Akopi watched their son, who was born last summer. Her
sister has been taking care of the boy for the past few weeks in Wisconsin,
which Akum said is hard on her because she doesn't get to see him often, but
necessary considering the circumstances.

Akopi is a University of St. Thomas mathematics and computer science graduate
who had plans to pursue his master's degree. He was a Cameroon soccer star and
as coach of the Highland Park Senior High School junior varsity boys soccer
team, led them to a conference title last fall.

"It's just a lot of 'what if's,' " said Cayle Akum. "There's so much
uncertainty. It's very hard, very stressful."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       March 7, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

BUSH, FOX EASE RULES AT BORDER
NO PHOTOS OR FINGERPRINTING FOR MEXICANS WITH 3-DAY VISAS

BYLINE: MIKE ALLENWashington Post

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 393 words


CRAWFORD, Texas -- President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox agreed in
principle Saturday to allow millions of Mexicans with short-term visas to cross
the border without being fingerprinted and photographed by U.S. authorities.

The concession, announced after Fox stayed overnight at Bush's ranch, represents
an effort by Bush to promote business and improve relations at a time when
Congress is refusing to take up his plan to help Mexicans to work legally in the
United States.

"Mexico and the United States are more than neighbors," Bush said at a news
conference with Fox. "We are partners in building a safer, more democratic and
more prosperous hemisphere."

The two left unresolved the most pressing issues facing the two countries,
including illegal immigration.

Fox's visit was aimed at easing tensions produced by his opposition to the war
in Iraq. Some presidential advisers remain bitter about Fox's stance, but Bush
is eager to move past the disagreement as he prepares election-year appeals to
Hispanics voters.

Bush, stung by Republican opposition to the immigration proposal he made in
January, allowed Fox to announce the planned change in entry requirements for
visitors from Mexico.

Administration officials said that after security details are worked out,
Mexicans on the 72-hour visas will be exempted from the requirement that anyone
entering the country submit to being photographed and fingerprinted.

Advocates for immigrants said the requirement would hurt businesses along the
border, including ones in south Texas, and could cause long delays at the
border.

About 6.8 million people hold such visas, which entail a background check and
require the visitor to remain within 25 miles of the border.

The biometric requirements began Jan. 5 at airports and seaports, and were to go
into effect at border crossings by Dec. 31.

Bush's immigration proposal would allow millions of undocumented Mexicans now in
the states to work legally as long as they eventually returned. It would make it
possible for other Mexicans to enter as long as they used a computerized
registry to line up a job.

But liberals on Capitol Hill said the plan does not go far enough because it
provides no track toward citizenship; conservatives said it would reward illegal
behavior by allowing undocumented workers to register.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

President Vincente Fox

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       March 12, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

AMERICAN DREAM NOW LOOKS LESS LIKE NIGHTMARE
IMMIGRANT, ALLEGEDLY ENSLAVED BY RELATIVE, SAYS SHE HAS HOPE

BYLINE: MARIE McCAIN Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 649 words


From the time she was a child, Ejine Francisca "Franca" Uzonwanne's life has
been one of voluntary servitude, say those close to the 25-year-old Nigerian
immigrant.

Traveling within her country, working as a maid for relatives or family friends
-- many of whom were helpful and supportive -- was how Uzonwanne survived.

Her father had died and she had few options. An offer to travel to the United
States, where she would work for a distant cousin and be paid $1,200 annually,
was her chance for a better life.

But once here, Uzonwanne contends her hopes turned to dust, and her life of
voluntary servitude became one of enslavement.

Now, intent on making a better life for herself, she has joined the growing
ranks of foreign nationals leveling lawsuits against their countrymen, alleging
civil rights abuses in violation of the U.S. Constitution.

Brian Cote, a Minneapolis lawyer who has volunteered to work on Uzonwanne's case
with students and staff at the University of St. Thomas School of Law, said the
13th Amendment protects everyone on American soil -- not just U.S. citizens --
from enslavement.

"Her life, from the time she (was born), has been extremely difficult," added
Virgil Wiebe, an associate law professor helping with Uzonwanne's case. "She was
at the bottom of the totem pole."

Though rare, such cases have popped up in recent years in California. They also
have prompted action by federal and state lawmakers.

In December, Congress again approved legislation prohibiting people from being
forced to work long hours without compensation.

And the Minnesota Legislature also is addressing the issue.

Trafficking in people is a crime in Minnesota, but a pair of bills, introduced
before Uzonwanne's plight came to light, would add some offenses.

The first proposal would create a specific definition of "sex trafficking" in
Minnesota law: receiving, recruiting, enticing, harboring, providing or
obtaining by any means an individual to aid in the prostitution of the
individual.

The proposal adds engaging in sex trafficking to the list of punishable offenses
and provides for the forfeiture of property belonging to people convicted under
the trafficking statutes.

The second bill would say that trafficking isn't limited to the sex industry,
but also includes forced labor. Convictions under that statute would be
punishable by up to 15 years in prison and/or a fine of up to $30,000.

"It's been 140 years since we abolished slavery, and we just didn't think we
were going to see that again," said Sen. Sandy Pappas, DFL-St. Paul, who
sponsored the bills in the House.

Now living in Rochester, Uzonwanne contends that for four years her father's
cousin, Dr. Julie Berny George, a family practitioner who formerly worked for
the Mayo Clinic, abused her, intimidated her, falsely imprisoned her and, when
she realized she could no longer control Uzonwanne, turned her over to
immigration officials.

Uzonwanne is seeking asylum, alleging George threatened to have people hurt her
if she returned to Nigeria. Her first hearing is in June.

Instead of actual shackles, George used threats, intimidation and physical force
to keep Uzonwanne enslaved, Cote said, adding that George has yet to be served
with the civil suit, but soon would be.

The FBI, a spokesman said, also is investigating her claims.

Uzonwanne's voice was small and shaky as she spoke publicly for the first time
Thursday about the federal lawsuit filed on her behalf.

"When I came to this country from Nigeria four years ago, I came with the hope
of a better life -- I never expected this to happen," she said in a St. Thomas
classroom in Minneapolis. "I am thankful so many people have opened their hearts
to me."

Lisa Donovan and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

Marie McCain can be reached at mmccain@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 Photos: JEAN PIERI, PIONEER PRESS

1. Franca Uzonwanne spoke at the University of St. Thomas on Thursday.
Rochester, Minn., friend Elaine Mayer is in background.

2. Franca Uzonwanne spoke at the University of St. Thomas Thursday. With her at
right is Brian Cote, a Minneapolis lawyer working on Uzonwanne's case with
students and staff at St. Thomas' law school.

3. Joe Mayer and his wife, Elaine, of Rochester, Minn., have befriended Franca
Uzonwanne.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       March 26, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

THE IMMIGRANT EXPERIENCE
SERIES EXPLAINS MOTIVES OF THOSE ABOUT TO ARRIVE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 471 words


They're coming. And the story is coming to viewers next week. Public television
couldn't have timed this one better.

An extraordinary seven-hour PBS miniseries -- "The New Americans" -- will begin
Monday at 8 p.m. on Channel 2 and will end Wednesday. It chronicles the
push-pull of the immigrant/refugee experience in America. Shown is the humanity
and emotional wrenching that comes with leaving a country, perhaps one step
ahead of the firing squad, arriving here and rebuilding. The program is
terrific.

It's especially topical in light of the new wave of Hmong immigrants expected in
St. Paul this summer.

At the same time, the universality expressed in the stories -- the love of
family members, a new marriage, hope, sorrow, joy -- is forever topical. For
those of you with some doubts as to what it really costs to pick up and move to
another country for whatever reason, watch these shows. It will be nearly
impossible to remain dry-eyed or unsure as the motives of the new Americans
already here.

The series of profiles done over a three-year period brings us stories from
Nigeria, Dominican Republic, Palestinian territories, India and Mexico. Naima, a
Palestinian woman, marries Haten, a Palestinian American. The intifada has left
her relatives dead or imprisoned, so the college-educated Naima decides to
accept Haten's marriage proposal and move to the United States where women have
more freedom to reach their potential.

Also extraordinarily moving is the story of two well-educated Nigerians who are
part of a family that protested the harmful environmental practices of the Shell
Oil Co. The Nigerian government silenced the dissent, executing the lead
activist and wreaking havoc with his family. A married couple with two children
moved to the United States to escape the threat and ended up in low-paying jobs,
even though he is a chemical engineer and his wife owned and operated
restaurants and a cooking school.

Memorable, too, is the story of Pedro Flores, who has worked as a Kansas
meatpacker for 13 years and wanted to bring his family to the United States.
Immigration officials limit the number of family members who can move, which
leads to a touching scene of family members comforting a small boy who fears
being left alone.

Perhaps one comment summarizes the series. The mother of a man who aspires to
become a professional baseball player says her son "has always wanted to be the
somebody for all of us." The series shows how each person strives to be a
somebody in a place that gives hope, above all else.

A companion program, "The New Minnesotans," will be broadcast on TPT Channel 17
at 8 p.m. on April 4. Local experts including immigrants whose families have
been here for three generations will talk about refugee issues, economic
challenges and education.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       March 28, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

THERE ARE MANY PARALLELS IN OUR EXPERIENCES

BYLINE: MARCIE RENDON Community Columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; COMMUNITY COLUMNISTINDIGENOUS VIEW OF IMMIGRATION; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 624 words


What does it mean to be an immigrant on indigenous land? Having never been an
immigrant, I have pondered this question over the years as I have watched others
come to my homeland. My mother's ancestors have been on this land of many lakes
since the Ojibwe migration to Madeline Island unknown centuries ago.

This land of maple syrup, wild rice and venison has fed my family for all the
following generations. And so, I watch and wonder. What is it like to be an
immigrant living on the land of my ancestor's memories? Do my ancestors speak to
you? Can you hear their voices on the wind? If you do, are you afraid?

Curious? Compassionate? Can you hear the ancient songs in the daily rush to
achieve the American Dream? If they do sing to you, do you stop in wonder or
rush on in fear?

When I visited Australia, I brought gifts to give to the elders. The Coori
people sang me a welcome song and the men played the didgeridoo to "sing me
home." I was a visitor on someone else's land. When I traveled to South Africa,
the Zulu people asked to meet with me. We talked about the songs of our people,
the forced loss of our language and a disappearing tribal land base. This is the
story of indigenous people around the world.

When I got home from my travels, I looked at the tribal people from Africa who
are making my home theirs, at the tribal Southeast Asian people whose belief in
a spirit world is as rich as mine. I wondered if the newly landed immigrants
even know we, the original people of this particular piece of earth, really do
exist. Or are we invisible to them? Do they only know about Native Americans
from the entertainment caricatures of Disney films, in the educational past
tense of turkeys and Pilgrims at Thanksgiving, or in the mythology of tribal
casino-rich Indians?

Without correct interpretation, information or educational awareness I started
to wonder the other day if maybe these new people, who arrive without being
given accurate information about the original people who still live here, maybe
these new people think that a reservation is a casino instead of a refugee camp.
Without an awareness of each other we are stopped from building alliances,
friendships, or a sharing of very similar cultural belief systems.

I grew up in the Red River Valley. I know the love European farm immigrants have
for the deep rich black soil and varying seasons of the Minnesota landscape.
From their stories, I know that when the hungers of their homeland brought them
here, they could not ignore the fact that someone else was already here. The
Dakota and Ojibwe fought them valiantly for their homeland. As a result, 38
Dakota men were hanged in Mankato three days after Lincoln freed the slaves. It
is only in retrospect that the idea of this being a country of available,
uninhabited, free land was turned into a palatable American myth.

Whenever traditional Maori people from New Zealand visit this Turtle Island, our
country, they dance a song thanking the indigenous ancestors of this continent
for allowing them to visit, asking the ancestors for forgiveness for any
mistakes they may make while walking on this piece of earth. Maybe in the
privacy of their ceremonies, the new relatives coming from other lands do this,
too. I hope so.

Our prophecies tell native people to remain human in spite of what happens to
us. We are given the mandate by our Creator to point the way to a more human
existence for all people on this Turtle Island. It is my belief that my
ancestors sing a song of welcome, asking to be remembered with respect and
asking all humans to walk in sacredness on this particular piece of earth.
Miigwetch.

Rendon, of Minneapolis, is a writer. Contact her at MRendon703@aol.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       April 11, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

HMONG REFUGEE FORUMS PLANNED

SECTION: LOCAL; HAPPENINGS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 120 words


Hmong American Partnership, a St. Paul-based mutual assistance association for
Hmong and other immigrants, will have two public meetings for Hmong residents of
the Twin Cities who are interested in sponsoring resettlement of relatives from
a camp in Thailand.

The meetings will be from 6 to 8 p.m. on Monday and Tuesday at Arlington Senior
High School, 1495 Rice St.

Hmong American Partnership is collaborating with the Minnesota Council of
Churches, a refugee resettlement agency, to assist the refugees in managing many
aspects of their lives in the first three months after their arrival.

Hmong American Partnership, 651-495-9160; www.hmong.org

Minnesota Council of Churches, 612-874-8605; www.mnchurches.org

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 13, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

SHOW HELPS IMMIGRANTS LEARN ROPES
CIVIC LIFE EXPLAINED FOR SOMALIS, LATINOS

BYLINE: GITA SITARAMIAHPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


Minneapolis is home to a growing number of Latino and Somali immigrants, some of
whom are struggling to learn English, much less figure out the rules behind
calling 911 and garbage pickup.

To help meet their needs, the city has launched "Access Minneapolis," a
half-hour show in Somali and Spanish on government access Channel 79. The show
began airing last month and airs at 8 p.m. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.

"It's talking heads, like a news program, with video interjected," said C. John
Harrison, a Minneapolis media services manager who developed the program.

Officials knew they had to do something to help new arrivals understand rules as
well as the services that city departments offer.

"It's kind of harsh to expect people to move their car for a snow emergency or
street sweeping when they're struggling to understand the language," said Gail
Plewacki, the city's spokeswoman.

About 15 percent of Minneapolis residents in 2000 were foreign-born, according
to the U.S. census. Of those residents, 33 percent were from Latin America and
23 percent were from Africa, the majority of those likely from Somalia in East
Africa.

"Access Minneapolis" features information on interpreting services, taxes, crime
prevention, city jobs, food safety and other aspects of civic life. The same
show is aired repeatedly for three months at a time. Harrison hopes to
eventually see the show change topics every month. A Hmong segment is planned
for the year's end, which would put the show at 45 minutes.

The city of St. Paul provides no such show, but St. Paul Neighborhood Network
offers foreign-language programm-ing on Channel 20 and Channel 15.

City of Minneapolis translators act as "Access Minneapolis" anchors. Half of the
show features Deka Yusuf speaking Somali; the other half is anchored by
Spanish-speaking Vicenta Valero. So far, the city produces the show within its
budget by working around the schedules of the translators, Plewacki said. A
cable subscriber fee pays for the government access channel.

Valero hears residents and acquaintances in Minneapolis raving about the show.
"When you come from a place where you don't have any rules or the rules are
totally different, it's helpful to hear them in your own language," she said.

Gita Sitaramiah can be reached at 612-338-8198 or gsitaramiah@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS FROM "ACCESS MINNEAPOLIS"

City of Minneapolis translators Deka Yusuf , above, and Vincenta Valero, below,
serve as anchors on the government access show "Access Minneapolis."

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 22, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

JUSTICE HOPES TO MEND CULTURAL GAP
COURTS URGED TO FORGE CONNECTIONS WITH HMONG COMMUNITY

BYLINE: MARIE McCAINPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


It could be as minor as a speeding ticket or as serious as a divorce.

Whatever the issue, when immigrant tradition butts up against the U.S. justice
system, the fallout can be frustrating for both sides.

In the spirit of cooperation, court officials, including Minnesota Supreme Court
Chief Justice Kathleen Blatz, and Hmong community members met Wednesday to
discuss ways of managing the differences, especially with the expected arrival
of thousands of Hmong refugees to St. Paul this summer.

Many of the expected refugees are under the age of 24. They have lived in
confinement for much of their lives and are unfamiliar with a structured system
of government.

"If we don't bridge the gaps, then we'll have a whole group of people that don't
trust the justice system," said Ramsey County District Chief Judge J. Thomas
Mott.

"That ultimately results in a less orderly society."

In Ramsey County that means helping immigrants and court officials better
understand each other. The meeting was part of a two-day visit to the Ramsey
County District Court by Blatz.

For much of the nearly 90-minute meeting, Sia Lo and his sister Ong Thao, both
Hmong residents of the Twin Cities, discussed the need for certified
interpreters from all immigrant and ethnic backgrounds.

They also urged court officials to forge relationships with Hmong elders,
specifically those trained to mediate disputes within the Hmong community. This
is paramount, they said.

"No one is above the law," said Sia Lo, a lawyer and former head of the criminal
division for the St. Paul city attorney who now works as a senior policy advisor
to Mayor Randy Kelly.

"And no one is saying that they disagree with U.S. laws. But there are areas
where everyone can be more flexible," he said. "We are asking for a flexibility
(from the justice system) that considers the cultural differences" of immigrant
communities.

Take for example, marriage and divorce.

Within the Hmong community, Sia Lo said, in marriage agreements between families
there may be times when a dowry is offered.

"Your son marries my daughter. I don't like your son and I believe he'll cheat
on my daughter. So I want his family to give me $5,000. It's like collateral or
a promissory note," Sia Lo said. "If he cheats on my daughter, I keep the money.
If she cheats on him, I return the money. And if the issues makes its way into
court, it might not make sense to a judge."

Within the Hmong community is an organized representative group composed of
elders called the Hmong Council of 18. Its elected members come from the 18
Hmong clans living in St. Paul.

There are specially trained elders from the council, who act as mediators when
disputes arise between various families. They know how to deal with issues that
might normally be handled in Ramsey County family court, Sia Lo said.

"This is a model the court system can foster," he added. "It helps the immigrant
community to resolve its own conflicts, but also gives the court the final say,
and it can be replicated in the Somali and other immigrant communities."

Ong Thao, a court-appointed interpreter who trains other interpreters for the
courts, acts as a consultant with the Hmong Council of 18. She trained the
community elders to act as mediators through a mediation program at Hamline
University's School of Law.

"No other Hmong agency does this," she said. "The council is looking for more
opportunities to work with the courts. We do get some referrals now, but there
is no formal relationship."

Since becoming chief justice in 1998, Blatz has made a point of visiting local
court districts to talk with judges and staff about their needs and concerns.
The supreme court oversees all state court programs and administration.

Marie McCain can be reached at mmccain@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: Craig Borck, Pioneer Press

Minnesota Supreme Court Justice Kathleen Blatz listens Wednesday as Sia Lo,
attorney and senior policy adviser to Mayor Randy Kelly, discusses Hmong
cultural differences as they relate to the court system.

Minnesota Chief Justice Kathleen Blatz chats with Ong Thao, an interpreter and
community activist, Wednesday after meeting with Ramsey County District Court
judges and Hmong community members. Attorney Patrick Kelly and Ramsey County
District Court Chief Judge J. Thomas Mott are in the background.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 29, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

CITY MAY BAN IMMIGRATION QUESTIONS
ILLEGAL RESIDENTS FEAR CALLING 911, SOME SAY

BYLINE: ROBERT INGRASSIAPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 334 words


About 100 people packed the St. Paul City Council chambers Wednesday evening to
express support for an ordinance aimed at keeping police officers and other city
workers from acting like immigration enforcers.

Council Member Pat Harris introduced the ordinance, which would prohibit
officers and city employees from asking about someone's immigration status,
unless the inquiry is required by law or directly related to the service being
sought.

"People will feel safer and call police when they have an issue," Harris said.
"This is the right thing to do."

Minneapolis and other cities across the nation have adopted similar measures,
spurred by a federal anti-terrorism law that many civil rights activists have
said discriminates against immigrants.

Several speakers told the council the ordinance would help ease fears among
immigrants, particularly those in the country illegally, that calling the police
or seeking medical help would result in them being deported.

"We all have a right as people to be treated with dignity and respect," said
Felix Laurent, a member of the church coalition ISAIAH, who spoke to the council
in Spanish and had his comments translated. "Right now, there are women who are
being beaten and suffering because they are afraid to report the abuses that are
happening to them."

Ilean Her, executive director of the Council on Asian-Pacific Minnesotans, said
the ordinance was a matter of human decency.

"It gives me hope that the city of St. Paul will say there are certain human
rights that we'll protect," she said.

Jewish Community Action, a St. Paul-based group, was among several organizations
that worked with Harris and other city officials on developing the proposed
ordinance.

"The war on terrorism is becoming a war on immigration," Howard Goldman, one of
the group's leaders, told the council.

The council is scheduled to vote on the ordinance Wednesday.

Robert Ingrassia can be reached at ringrassia@pioneerpress.com or 651-292-1892.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 5, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

MEATPACKERS SEE WAGES FALL
ONE RURAL PLANT'S WORKERS, MANY OF THEM IMMIGRANTS, WILL VOTE ON UNIONIZING
TODAY.

BYLINE: MIKE HUGHLETTPioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1347 words


At work, Raul Gutierrez wields a knife, hacking out tenderloins from cow
carcasses. As the cows -- hanging from a chain -- move down the line, he makes
the same cut about 700 times a day. He gets paid $10 an hour.

That's on the upper end of the wage scale at Minnesota Beef Industries in
Buffalo Lake, a small town 1 1/2 hours west of St. Paul. But it's still below
the Minnesota meatpacking industry's average of $12 an hour.

Meatpacking once was one of Minnesota's better-paying manufacturing jobs,
earning an average wage in 1982 of more than $17 an hour, as measured in today's
dollars. The slide in current wages coincides with massive industry changes,
including more dependence on immigrant workers and the waning power of labor
unions.

Minnesota Beef is a case in point: Its production workers, mostly
Spanish-speaking immigrants like Gutierrez, are not unionized.

That condition could change soon if the plant's roughly 125 hourly workers vote
today to join South St. Paul-based United Food and Commercial Workers Local 789.
The union faces a big challenge: Meatpacking plants often employ some illegal
immigrants, and they can be particularly hard to organize.

The head of Minnesota Beef, Bill Gilger, declined to be interviewed for this
story.

AN INDUSTRY OF IMMIGRANTS

Gutierrez, 42, says he will vote for the union in today's election.

He came to the state in 1999. A native of Mexico, Gutierrez arrived in the
United States when he was 16 and had been working in construction in south Texas
before heading north. A priest at his church in Texas told him about
opportunities in Minnesota's meatpacking industry.

It's a familiar story. Many of Minnesota's roughly 20 meat plants -- whether
they process, turkeys, pigs or cows -- rely heavily on Spanish-speaking
immigrants.

Detailed demographic data of the approximately 15,000 workers in the state's
meatpacking plants aren't available. But nationally, the share of Hispanic
workers in meatpacking rose to about 35 percent in 2000 from 15 percent in 1990,
according to research by William Kandel, a sociologist with the U.S. Department
of Agriculture.

The non-Hispanic white share of the industry's work force fell from about 75
percent to 40 percent over the same 20 years.

Employers' attraction to immigrants is simple, researchers say. Immigrants tend
to work diligently, but many have limited job opportunities because they can't
speak English well or lack education. So, they come cheap.

"For employers, there is a steady stream of workers willing to take jobs at
relatively low wages," said Katherine Fennelly, a professor at the University of
Minnesota's Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs, who has done research on
immigrants in the state's food-processing industry.

On the other hand, some of the workers come from places where $10 an hour "seems
like a godsend," said Mark Grey, an anthropologist at the University of Northern
Iowa. The meat industry "has taken full advantage" of the situation, said Grey,
who has studied meatpacking communities in Iowa.

So is it a win-win situation?

"The jury is still out. (Meatpacking) is very, very difficult work with high
injury and turnover rates," Grey said.

Indeed, compared with other industries, meatpacking in 2002 had the highest rate
of injuries or illnesses that caused workers to lose work time or get
transferred to less physically taxing jobs, according to the U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics.

BEEF WITH MANAGEMENT

Meatpacking has long been dangerous and -- in some cases -- repulsive work. How
else can one characterize eight hours of disposing of cow guts?

That was the job description given by one worker to union organizers at a recent
meeting in Buffalo Lake. He gets paid $9 an hour as a "paunch dumper," shunting
away guts after they're cut from cow carcasses.

The worker, who declined to give his name because he fears he'll be fired for
talking to the media, was one of several Minnesota Beef employees who had
dropped by the meeting hall on the town's main street.

They talked with union organizers about their concerns, pausing at least twice
to point out the window at a vehicle passing the meeting hall. They claimed the
slaughterhouse's plant manager was at the wheel, circling the block.

Complaints about management were high on the list of issues cited by Minnesota
Beef workers when they first contacted the union, said Juan Sandoval, a Local
789 organizer who until recently worked at an Austin, Minn., slaughterhouse.

Workers also claimed Minnesota Beef's bathrooms were always locked; they had to
ask managers for a key, Sandoval said. (Workers say the policy changed after the
union organizing drive began.) And they said the plant has no drinking fountain
or water cooler. Water is available only through a hose meant for rinsing off
work clothes or through a vending machine, workers and union organizers said.

Other worker complaints were more traditional: substandard pay and benefits.

Wages for many jobs start as low as $7 an hour and rise to between $8 and $9 an
hour, said several workers, with the highest-paid jobs at about $11 an hour.
Family health insurance costs $126 a week, workers said.

In contrast, at Long Prairie Packing -- whose workers are represented by Local
789 -- the base wage rate is $10.70. Top wages at that central Minnesota plant
are $13.20 an hour.

The union has tried to win over Minnesota Beef workers by pointing to contracts
at Long Prairie and Dakota Premium Foods in South St. Paul, both of which are
also relatively small beef plants.

Local 789 successfully organized Dakota Premium in 2000, one of the most visible
local attempts to unionize a predominantly immigrant work force. But the union
has so far failed on a much bigger organizing project, a Jennie-O turkey plant
in Willmar with at least 1,000 employees.

The state's burgeoning turkey-packing industry remains virtually non-union.

QUESTIONS OF LEGALITY

Organizing plants that rely heavily on Hispanic immigrants presents unions with
an extra hurdle, organized labor experts say.

That's because some of those immigrants are in this country illegally. They play
a vital role in the economy, and they have the same legal rights as all U.S.
workers -- but they can be deported.

The number of illegal immigrants working in the meatpacking industry is unclear.
However, one 1998 federal study estimated that in Iowa and Nebraska -- two prime
meat-processing states -- as many as one in four meatpacking workers were
illegal aliens.

Local 789 claims plant managers at Minnesota Beef preyed on the fears of
undocumented workers, violating federal law in the process.

On April 23, the union filed a complaint with the National Labor Relations
Board, saying that a Minnesota Beef manager told an employee that if that
employee votes for the union, he would call the local police department.

The manager then said police would stop workers and take away their "papers" and
vehicles because they were illegal, the union complaint alleged. The company, in
responding to the complaint, has told the NLRB it broke no labor laws.

The NLRB hasn't ruled on the complaint. In the meantime, Gutierrez said he's
seen some workers who originally were for the union change their minds.

"They're scared and saying they'll vote no," Gutierrez said. "I tell them not to
believe (what the company says), it's all lies."

Mike Hughlett can be reached at mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or at 651-228-5428.

Meat industry employment

-- About 35 percent of U.S. meatpacking workers in 2000 were Hispanic.

-- Just under 10 percent in 1980 were Hispanic.

-- 19.6 percent of U.S. meat products workers were union members in 2002.

-- 33.4 percent in 1983 were union members.

-- There are 15,500 meatpacking workers in Minnesota.

Sources: William Kandel of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics, Barry Hirsch of Trinity University in Texas, Minnesota
Department of Employment and Economic Development.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: Pioneer Press

How the pay stacks up

Meatpacking has declined at a faster pace than pay for manufacturing jobs
overall. Pay for meat-processing jobs, adjusted for inflation, lags
manufacturing overall by nearly 25 percent.

(See microfilm for complete details)

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 6, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

MEAT WORKERS REJECT UNION
MOST EMPLOYEES AT MINNESOTA BEEF ARE HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MIKE HUGHLETTPioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 242 words


In an election that highlighted attempts to organize immigrant meatpackers,
workers at Minnesota Beef Industries in Buffalo Lake Wednesday rejected
unionizing by a vote of 67 to 32.

Bernie Hesse, an official with South St. Paul-based United Food and Commercial
Workers Local 789, said the union plans to file an objection to the election
with the National Labor Relations Board.

The union claims that many workers were "intimidated" when management threatened
to fire them or possibly get them deported if they voted for the union, Hesse
said.

The head of Minnesota Beef, Bill Gilger, did not return a phone call Wednesday.
The plant, which employs about 125 hourly workers, is about 1 1/2 hours west of
St. Paul.

Prior to the election, the union had filed charges with the labor board,
alleging that management had threatened to call local police, who would in turn
stop workers and take away their "papers" and vehicles because they were
illegal.

The labor board is investigating the complaint. The company, in responding to
the complaint, has said it broke no labor laws.

Minnesota Beef predominantly employs Hispanic immigrants. Local 789 succeeded
four years ago in organizing a mostly immigrant work force at Dakota Premium
Foods, a beef processing operation in South St. Paul. Immigrants increasingly
make up the bulk of the meatpacking work force.

Mike Hughlett can be reached at mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5428.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 11, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

FAMILY LIVES NATION'S IMMIGRATION DEBATE

BYLINE: RUBEN ROSARIO

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1177 words


The bags are packed. Big-ticket possessions have been sold or donated. The
$280,000 home in the suburbs is up for sale. The wife quit her job, and the kids
were allowed Monday to attend class for the last time. On Wednesday, Armando
Blas-Garcia and his family will head back to their future.

Blas-Garcia and his wife, Maria Luisa German-Flores, both 35, illegally crossed
the border from Mexico to this country 17 years ago for the same reasons
countless numbers of immigrants from Mexico and other parts of the world have
come -- a better life. Now, after living nearly half of their lives here, they
were ordered deported and will leave with their three children, including
George, their 12-year-old U.S.-born son.

The deportation became effective after Blas-Garcia's request for permanent
residency was denied, and the U.S. Department of Labor informed federal
immigration officials earlier this year that it would not renew Blas-Garcia's
work permit.

"It has cost me $700 in repairs to get it ready," Blas-Garcia said of the old
Ford pickup he bought for the return trip after trading in his family minivan
two weeks ago.

"The timing was off, among other things," he said.

In a way, that statement defines his life in America as well as his deportation,
which is all but certain. If proposed reforms bandied about in Congress are any
indication of future trends, someone like Blas-Garcia and his family would have
an excellent shot at staying here. President Bush has proposed making it easier
for illegal immigrants to obtain work permits. Last week, Democratic
congressional legislators unveiled legislation that would grant legal status to
immigrants who have lived here for at least five years and can prove they are
working and paying taxes.

That would describe Blas-Garcia by most accounts. But that was then and this is
now, and the family must leave, despite years of effort by his lawyer and a
flood of letters to immigration officials and Minnesota legislators from scores
of supporters ranging from priests to his employer.

"It bears reminding that Mr. Blas-Garcia violated the law by entering this
country illegally," said Tim Counts, a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Bloomington. "It also bears
reminding that he was given every due process imaginable and that he was allowed
to stay an extra two years while the labor certification process was completed."

There are some who will sympathize with Blas-Garcia's plight and argue that
although he did break the law, he has more than made up for it by living the
American dream -- a hard-working, law-abiding father whose drive and initiative
both at work and at his church underlines this country's reputation as a land of
promise and opportunity.

Others will say this man deserved to be booted back and quite possibly occupied
a job that should have gone to a citizen.

The Rev. Lawrence Hubbard, pastor of El Sagrado Corazon De Jesus/Incarnation
Church in Minneapolis, where Blas-Garcia worships and serves as a trustee,
prefers to see the deportation in more global, Christian and humanistic terms.

"There is the legally right and there's the morally wrong," says Hubbard, better
known as "Father Lorenzo" to perhaps the largest congregation of Latino
parishioners in the Twin Cities. "Abortion may be legal, but it is morally
wrong. I see Armando in the same light. This is a man who has worked hard and
deserves to stay. It breaks my heart, even if God wills it (deportation)."

Blas-Garcia, the youngest of seven brothers and sisters, grew up on a cattle
ranch in an impoverished section of Mexico where he walked 10 miles one way to
the nearest school.

He wanted to become an engineer after graduating from high school, but his
family could not afford to send him to a university.

He decided to follow in the footsteps of his siblings, all of whom are either
U.S. or legal citizens living in Minnesota, California and Illinois. He worked a
variety of sweatshop jobs in northern California, from taping the soles of
women's shoes and sewing men's swimsuits to cutting and packaging cauliflower
and other vegetables. He often juggled two jobs and put in 15 hours of work
daily.

Through a quirk of timing, his two daughters -- Maria de Los Angeles
Blas-German, 17, and Areli Blas-German, 15 -- were conceived here but born in
Mexico only because their mother had to return in response to serious family
medical emergencies involving her parents.

"I've been told that I might have had a better shot of perhaps staying here if
they had been born here," he said wistfully.

At the request of a brother, the family moved to the Twin Cities in 1996, and
Blas-Garcia applied for permanent residency for the first time. Meanwhile, he
locked in on a job with a printing firm in Chanhassen and was later promoted to
shipping clerk, earning more than $14 an hour for the first time in his life.
His wife also landed a job as a cook at Mystic Lake Casino.

"(We) consider Armando a very loyal and valued employee," the company president
said in a letter of support sent to Gov. Tim Pawlenty, U.S. Sens. Norm Coleman
and Mark Dayton, and other key lawmakers. "Armando and his family need a
miracle. What else can be done?"

The answer from senatorial staffers and others is not much.

"We've been working on this case for over two years now, and we are
disappointed," said Chris Lisi, a spokeswoman for Dayton. "But we have done
everything we could."

In a written statement, Coleman said: "I looked, talked, pushed and prodded, and
I have to tell you that Immigration has made a judgment and I don't have the
capacity to change it under these circumstances."

Armando's immigration lawyer, Herbert Igbanugo, doesn't dispute that his
client's deportation is legally sound. He says he will fight to keep the family
here until the imminent decision from the Labor Department becomes official and
is appealed.

"Sports teams are frequently allowed to bring athletes from other countries and
are granted green cards because they have a skill at putting a ball through a
basket," Igbanugo said. "Armando is a very hard-working man who is a benefit to
American society. I argue he is as worthy of a green card as anyone."

The immigration office has waived forcibly deporting the family as long as
Armando leaves by Wednesday and voluntarily reports to the nearest U.S. embassy
in Mexico. The trip from the Twin Cities to Chiautla de Tapici in Puebla,
Mexico, is nearly 2,000 miles.

Blas-Garcia has every intention of leaving. But he is still clinging to hope
that a call will come along the way.

"I won't cut off the cellular phone service until I get there," he said.

PROTEST PLANNED

Scores of supporters of the Blas-Garcia family are expected to gather in front
of the U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Bloomington
at noon today to protest the family's deportation as well as bid them farewell.

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 PHOTOS: JEAN PIERI, PIONEER PRESS

1) Armando Blas-Garcia and his wife, Maria Luisa German-Flores, at left, huddle
with their three children George, 12, Areli, 15, and Maria, 17, outside their
Shakopee home, which is for sale as the parents face an expected deportation to
their native Mexico this week. The couple entered the United States illegally 17
years ago.

2) Armando Blas-Garcia, his wife and three children say grace before eating a
meal last week. Blas-Garcia and his wife, both illegal immigrants, face
deportation to Mexico this week.

3) Spirits were low last week as Armando Blas-Garcia and his wife and daughters
discussed their plight at their Shakopee home.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      May 19, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

MONEY TRANSFERS TOTAL IN BILLIONS
IMMIGRANT FUNDS SENT HOME TOP AID

BYLINE: Sheryl Jean, Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUISNESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 504 words


Latin American immigrants living in Minnesota will send more than $147 million
back home this year, providing a vital family and economic development link,
according to a new federal survey released this week.

Minnesota ranked No. 26 of 37 states and the District of Columbia surveyed
earlier this year by the Inter-American Development Bank's Multilateral
Investment Fund. It's the first state-by-state analysis of money transfers to
Latin America by millions of migrants in the United States.

Ten million of the 16.5 million Latin American-born adults in the United States
regularly send money home, according to the survey.

In Minnesota, more than half of 78,300 Latin American immigrants do the same. In
addition, Somali, Vietnamese and other immigrants send money home.

"It's a lifeblood for their families," said Steve Saloutos, senior vice
president of emerging markets for Minneapolis-based U.S. Bank, whose customers
often are husbands supporting a wife and children in Mexico or a son or daughter
supporting parents back home.

Nationally, the survey indicates that U.S. immigrants this year expect to send
more than $30 billion to Latin America. Residents of California account for
nearly one-third of that amount. Much of the money -- $13.7 billion -- goes to
Mexico.

"We know that remittances are an integral part of the American immigrant
experience," U.S. Treasury Deputy Secretary Samuel Bodman said at an
Inter-American Development Bank conference.

Money transfers have become a major source of capital for "the economies of
Latin America and the Caribbean," Bodman said. The more than $38 billion
worldwide expatriates sent to Latin America and the Caribbean last year
outstripped official development assistance to the area, he said.

The survey found that most money transfers occur outside of formal financial
institutions. Banks have been increasing their money transfer services.

U.S. Bank has seen "significant" growth since it started a Mexico-focused money
transfer program last year, Saloutos said.

Latinos are the fastest growing U.S. minority group, yet only about half of all
Latin American immigrants in the United States have bank accounts, according to
the Inter-American Development Bank.

"That's where the challenge is to an extent," said Daniel Ayala, senior vice
president of Wells Fargo & Co.'s cross border payments. "Some people have had
bad experiences in their home countries."

The average Minnesota money transfer to Latin America is about $240 per
transaction, totaling $1,877 on average per person a year, according to the
survey. Nationally, the average money transfer is $150 to $250, accounting for
about 10 percent of their household income, according to the survey.

The Inter-American Development Bank provides financing for economic development
in Latin America and the Caribbean. It interviewed 3,802 households from January
to April.

Sheryl Jean can be reached at sjean@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5576.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

CASH EXPORTS

A new survey indicates that U.S. immigrants this year expect to send more than
$30 billion to Latin America.

States sending the most money transfers

[See microfillm for complete graphic]

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                        May 23, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

FAMILY REUNION
HMONG ACROSS THE TWIN CITIES ARE BUSY PREPARING FOR THE ARRIVAL OF RELATIVES
FROM A REFUGEE CAMP IN THAILAND. WHEN AN ESTIMATED 5,000 IMMIGRANTS BEGIN
RESETTLING HERE THIS SUMMER, THEIR KIN WILL BE CRUCIAL IN EASING THE TRANSITION.

BYLINE: Todd Nelson, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1523 words


They will put out lots of food and folding chairs. They will greet their guests
with hugs and kind words.

Then, instead of saying goodbye, the hosts will pass out blankets and say
goodnight.

The scene will unfold countless times this summer as the first of an estimated
5,000 Hmong refugees from Thailand begin settling in St. Paul and across the
Twin Cities.

With the tight housing market, many will bunk with relatives for their first
days or weeks in the United States. For many host families, the work of
preparing a welcome for a dozen or more relatives while also getting ready to
carry out duties as refugee sponsors is well under way.

"We will help them as much as we can," Yer Chang, who is anticipating the
arrival of her sister, her sister's two children and their spouses and children
-- 16 people in all, said through a translator. "We have a lot of relatives
here. If we can't provide them what we need, we still have all our relatives to
help us, too."

Half the newcomers will start out staying with Yer Chang and her husband,
Chercha Xiong, in their Suburban Avenue home in St. Paul, where they live with
five of their seven children. The rest will live with other relatives in the
area. Family members already are scouting out apartments or houses to rent. Yer
Chang keeps a running list in her head of what the new arrivals will need, from
groceries, towels and sofas to bedding and, for that matter, beds.

Other families also are looking for housing, fixing up basements or spare rooms,
trying to line up work for newcomers. Some are sitting with officials at
resettlement agencies to go over checklists of things they will need to do or
provide for the refugees. Each refugee will receive $400 to pay for food,
clothes and housing. They will be eligible for public assistance but must meet
work requirements. Family members, who counted on social service agencies when
they resettled, will provide much of the support. Some are struggling themselves
but look forward to reuniting with family.

"For some of them, it's kind of scary," said William Yang, executive director of
the Hmong American Partnership, a nonprofit community assistance association
that will resettle some refugees and also provide services such as job
counseling and language classes. "But for the most part, people are excited for
the families that will be coming. They are willing and more than happy to share
their homes."

Yer Chang will take them to the warehouse outlet store where she works as a
stocker. That way, they will see how people work to earn a living and see what
that money will buy at such stores, jammed with a bounty of goods that could
overwhelm the new arrivals.

The contrast with the shantytown they have lived in could hardly be greater. The
compound at Wat Tham Krabok, a Buddhist temple north of Bangkok, is not
recognized as an official refugee camp, so residents, who have few opportunities
to work and depend on money overseas relatives send, must pay for all their
food, water, firewood and other necessities. Many live in huts with split bamboo
walls, dirt floors and thatched roofs.

"They'll probably say, 'Wow, is this stuff all here?' " Yer Chang said. "They
probably won't believe it."

She is awaiting the arrival of her older sister, Xai Chang, nephew Chue Thao and
his wife and five children and niece Shoua Thao, her husband and their six
children. Yer Chang, 46, has not seen her sister, believed to be in her 60s,
since 1988, the year before she settled in Minnesota. On the wall of her home is
a black-and-white photo of Yer Chang and Xai Chang, holding the infant son who
will now be resettling with her. The women, photographed in the early 1970s in
Laos, were wearing traditional Hmong clothes decorated with elaborate
embroidery.

"If she comes over here, we won't have to worry anymore," Yer Chang said. "She's
the last family member there."

Some families that own homes or duplexes they had leased now are setting those
places aside for refugees, William Yang said. That is what Donny Yang of St.
Paul said brothers Chue and Peng Yang are doing for their sister and her family.

"We're buying beds, fixing the house, making sure when she comes here it's very
clean and she will like it," Donny Yang said. "We'll have food and dinners and a
lot of stuff like that. It's been, like, 15 years, so I know it's going to be
very emotional when we see her. I don't think I will recognize her. It will be
strange and exciting together."

His sister, Blia Yang, said in an interview earlier this year at the camp that
she and her husband, True Thao, were eager to resettle in St. Paul with their
two children. Her mother and several siblings already live here. They won't
forget the squalid compound where they have spent the past 11 years, but they
won't miss it, either.

"What I would think of or recall is the hot life we face here," Blia Yang said,
speaking through an interpreter. "The feeling that no one has taken care of us
here. We were not looked after."

Donny Yang said relatives here send the family money every few weeks. Blia Yang
and True Thao send over embroidered traditional costumes they have sewn at the
camp but they don't make much for their work.

True Thao said he and his wife worry some about learning English and surviving
cold winters.

"Since I'm not there yet, I can't tell what life will be like," True Thao said.
"What will please us is that the children can go to school. Whatever job I can
do, I will do. Farming vegetables, I can do that."

In Crystal, Tou Chang and Mary Lee Chang are getting ready for his brother and
sister-in-law and their six children to arrive from Thailand. In interviews
earlier this year, Meng Chang and wife Kao Lee said that after years of scraping
to survive at the camp for the past 13 years, they had no worries about moving
to the Twin Cities.

Two years ago, Tou Chang and his wife visited their relatives at the camp,
engulfed by clouds of dust from a nearby quarry.

"The first night, I could not breathe," Mary Lee Chang said. "I could not drink
the water. ... When I came back to the United States, I couldn't sleep. I think
about them every night. How do they find something to eat? What do they do?"

Mary Lee Chang said she pushes friends to buy the costumes and other items her
sister-in-law sews. She and her husband, who work different shifts so they can
care for their 4-year-old son, try to put in overtime whenever they can to have
extra money to send to his brother.

Once they get here, Meng Chang and his family should have an easier time of
adjusting than he and his wife did after they arrived in the 1980s, with fewer
Hmong to show them the ropes, Tou Chang said.

"We can help so much more than we got," said Tou Chang, who lived in Chicago,
then spent 15 years in Sheboygan, Wis., before moving to the Twin Cities in
1996. "The first time we came, nobody helped. It felt like they put you down in
the middle of the ocean. I told Meng, 'You come here, you can ride the boat.'"

Lee Pao Xiong, a Hmong activist who works for the city of Minneapolis, said his
family has met to discuss where 11 relatives from Wat Tham Krabok should live.
The likely destination is Brooklyn Park, where an uncle owns a four-bedroom
house. It should accommodate Lee Pao Xiong's cousin, Chong Tou Xiong, his wife,
their seven children and his parents.

"Lee Pao, the first thing he told me is, 'If you have a chance to go, just go,'"
Cong Tou Xiong said through an interpreter in an earlier interview at the camp.
"It's a good modern country where you can do so many things, to the best of your
abilities."

Many families here are better prepared to lend a hand to the newcomers, said
John Borden, casework supervisor for the International Institute of Minnesota,
which will assist in resettling thousands of the refugees.

"The Hmong community in this community is effectively established and now it's
taking on some real responsibility to their own folks," Borden said. "It's just
real exhilarating to see that happen. So often, it's not that it's not the will
of the people to do that, but the anchor relatives have only come a year or two
before the next wave and have not had time to establish themselves. These folks
have been able to get their own lives squared away, and are able to dig a little
deeper for their next folks."

Having relatives resettle here will be both a relief and a challenge for their
families, said William Yang, of the Hmong American Partnership. Sending money
overseas can be a burden and does not necessarily strengthen the emotional
connection between separated families. Supporting an extended family day to day
here won't be easy for some, either.

"They know that the family will be together here and not separated and they do
not need to worry about what's going to happen to them," William Yang said.
"Eventually, the new families will be able to support themselves. The families
are willing to suffer during this difficult time, and eventually everyone will
be happy in the end."

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: JOURNEY TO A NEW LAND

GRAPHIC: 2 PHOTOS: JOHN DOMAN, PIONEER PRESS

1) Like many Hmong in the Twin Cities, St. Paul residents Yer Chang and her
husband, Chercha Xiong, will soon welcome relatives from a refugee camp in
Thailand. Yer Chang's sister and 15 other relatives will rely on the family and
other kin upon arriving.

2) Yer Chang and her mother-in-law, Blia Lee, 86, look at snapshots of relatives
soon to arrive from Thailand.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       May 25, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

DOCTORAL STUDENT FACES TEST OF FAITH
HE COULD BE DEPORTED AFTER ILLEGAL 2001 ENTRY INTO U.S.

BYLINE: LENORA CHUPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 677 words


Before April 6, Tekleab Shibru Gala was, as he put it, "doing something with his
life."

Gala, 32, was studying for a soil sciences doctorate at the University of
Minnesota, leading the choir at Oromo Lutheran Church in Minneapolis and sending
money home to his parents in Ethiopia.

The problem is, Gala entered the United States illegally several years ago, and
since he walked into the immigration bureau in Bloomington he's been in the
Ramsey County jail.

Gala has been waiting for his chance to prove to an immigration judge that
returning to his home country would subject him to persecution and possibly
endanger his life. Gala has applied for political asylum in the United States.

But times have changed since Sept. 11, 2001. "Immigration (officials are)
tightening down on a lot of different things," said Elizabeth Holmes, Gala's
attorney. "There's more scrutiny. Asylum is a difficult type of relief to gain."

Gala entered the United States in 2001 from the Netherlands just after his
temporary visa in Holland, where he earned a master's degree in soil sciences,
was set to expire.

Gala said he's afraid to return to Ethiopia, where he was a university
professor. "I have that kind of fear, that my life might be in jeopardy --
especially since I tried to flee."

The Ethiopian government twice tried to assassinate him in the early 1990s for
his affiliation with the political party of his Oromo people, Gala stated in a
court affidavit. One attempt left three friends dead, he said.

Gala left Ethiopia for Holland in 1999. When he later returned to conduct
research, he was forced to check in with local police every morning and evening,
he said.

After arriving in America, he spent several months in Washington, D.C., and
Philadelphia, but it wasn't until May 2002 that Gala made a connection in
Minnesota.

During a trip to attend his cousin's graduation from Augsburg College, Gala
surfed the Internet for educational opportunities and found soil sciences
Professor Jay Bell at the U of M.

"He showed up at my door, just literally walked in off the street," Bell said.
"His background was such that he's exactly what we were looking for here.

By fall 2002, Gala -- who goes by his nickname "Nico" -- was enrolled as a
doctorate student and began studying the effect of agriculture on soil
characteristics.

Gala quickly made friends, purchased a car, began an assistant teaching position
and earned enough money to rent a shared room at the Minnesota Graduate Club
cooperative.

"Nico hasn't paid rent for May, but everyone in the house should understand and
I will say it again -- his stuff will stay in his room as long as he is in the
country," insisted Aicam Laacouri, a friend of Gala's and the co-op's board
president.

Gala also began leading the choir at Oromo Lutheran Church in Minneapolis and
found work as the weekend janitor at Roseville Lutheran Church, where pastor
Hans Jorgenson described Gala's "kind manner and frequent smile."

"He's aware he made some mistakes in the way he came in," Jorgenson said. "For
him this is a test of his faith and trusts that whatever way it happens that God
will be there for him."

A judge reopened Gala's asylum case last week. Officials had closed his case
when Gala failed to appear for a March 29 hearing and sent him a notice to
prepare for deportation April 6, the day Gala voluntarily appeared at the
Bloomington immigration bureau.

Gala said his Washington, D.C., lawyer, to whom the letter was apparently sent,
never told him about the March 29 hearing.

Forty percent of Ethiopians whose asylum cases were heard in U.S. immigration
courts in fiscal year 2003 gained asylum status, according to the U.S.
Department of Justice's Executive Office for Immigration Review.

"I was trying to go to school and build a career and contribute to the science
something in my life," Gala said during a videoconference interview at the jail.
He broke into tears. "That was my hope and my dream."

Lenora Chu can be reached at lchu@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2109.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 2, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

U.S. BANK EXPANDS MONEY TRANSFERS
MONEYGRAM DEAL ADDS 160 COUNTRIES

BYLINE: SHERYL JEANPioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 425 words


U.S. Bank said Tuesday that it's expanding its international money transfer
services to countries beyond Mexico for the first time, as part of a deal with
MoneyGram in St. Louis Park.

MoneyGram's extensive money transfer network gives U.S. Bank access to more than
160 countries. Minneapolis-based U.S. Bank, the nation's seventh-largest bank,
will be MoneyGram's largest bank affiliate in the United States.

"This broadens our distribution network significantly," said Steven SaLoutos,
senior vice president of emerging markets for U.S. Bank. "It helps us serve our
immigrant customers because one of their basic needs is to send money back to
their home country."

Banks, including U.S. Bank, Chicago-based LaSalle Bank and San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo & Co., have added services for immigrant customers as U.S. migrant
populations have grown. In Minnesota, Mexican, Somali, Vietnamese and other
immigrants regularly send money home.

The World Bank estimates that immigrants worldwide sent $93 billion home in
2003, but the amount would be higher if unrecorded transfers through informal
channels were included, said senior economist Dilip Ratha.

Most money transfers occur outside of formal financial institutions, according
to the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington, D.C. So banks are joining
forces with businesses such as MoneyGram or Western Union to expand their reach.

U.S. Bank initially will offer MoneyGram services at 213 bank branches in
Chicago, Los Angeles, Milwaukee and San Diego starting in August with plans to
expand the program to all 2,275 branches in 24 states by early next year.
SaLoutos sees the greatest potential for the bank's MoneyGram services in
Central America and southern Asia.

U.S. Bank last year started two money transfer programs focused on Mexico: a
stored-card program used at cash machines in Mexico and a joint partnership with
a Mexican bank coalition. The MoneyGram deal gives U.S. Bank 5,500 additional
outlets in Mexico.

U.S. Bank's price for MoneyGram's service will vary based on the amount
transferred and the destination. For example, it would cost $9 to send up to
$500 from Chicago to Mexico.

Tony Ryan, MoneyGram's vice president of global funds transfer, declined to say
how many customers it has or how much money it transfers. MoneyGram, a unit of
Travelers Express Co., also has a money transfer agreement with Union Bank of
California.

Sheryl Jean covers financial services and can be reached at
sjean@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5576.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 13, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

NEW LAND; HOMELAND
MEXICANS, LONG A PRESENCE IN MINNESOTA, ARE ONE OF THE FASTEST GROWING IMMIGRANT
POPULATIONS IN THE STATE. MEXICAN PRESIDENT VICENTE FOX'S ARRIVAL THIS WEEK
SHINES A LIGHT ON THE GROWING TIES BETWEEN MINNESOTA AND MEXICO.

BYLINE: Compiled by Todd Nelson, Erin Pfeiffer, Phillip Pina, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; IN CONTEXT; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1264 words


-- Mexican roots: The first Mexicans to settle in Minnesota arrived sometime
between 1850 and 1860, according to history records. An early pioneer was oboist
Luis Garzon, who arrived with the Mexican National Band to perform at the
Minneapolis Industrial Exposition in 1886. Legend is he fell ill and couldn't
travel so he stayed. By 1880, six Minnesotans of Mexican heritage were recorded.

-- Community: Our Lady of Guadalupe Church in St. Paul began in 1931 as a small
Catholic mission serving about a dozen families of sugar beet workers. It has
served as a center for Mexican-Americans throughout the Twin Cities. In 1948 it
established a credit union that encouraged saving habits and gave loans.

Neighborhood House was founded in 1897 to help Jewish immigrants, but soon
became a lifeline to the Mexican-Americans. It held Americanization and
citizenship classes, as well as courses on sewing, cooking and health education.
It became the site of festivals and weddings. Employment services helped many
get jobs.

Floods of 1951 and 1952 on the West Side Flats led migration onto the bluffs,
and eventually the demolition of the neighborhood. About half of the residents
resettled elsewhere on the West Side.

Mexican-American neighborhoods are also found on St. Paul's East Side and along
Lake Street in Minneapolis.

-- Work: Many Mexicans work for meatpacking and foodprocessing companies like
Minnesota Beef Industries in Buffalo Lake, Hormel Foods in Austin and Dakota
Premium Foods in South St. Paul. Immigrants increasingly make up the bulk of the
meatpacking work force.

-- Music: Latin music has long been a fixture on St. Paul's West Side. One of
the biggest stars was Augie Garcia, who was dubbed the "Minnesota Rock 'n' Roll
Godfather." A member of Los Boleros, Garcia switched from Mexican music to rock
'n' roll in the 1950s after returning from serving in the Korean War, where he
earned a Purple Heart. "Musica de la Raza": The Minnesota Historical Society
Press in 1999 created a collection of local artists for a CD compilation.

-- People: Conrad M. Vega was the first Mexican-American elected to the
Minnesota Legislature, where he served as a DFL senator for Dakota County from
1976 to 1986.

Gilbert de la O, 58, is a local community activist and politician who served on
the St. Paul school board from 1998 to 2000. De la O was awarded the Minnesota
Peace Prize in 1996 for his lifetime service as a volunteer at Neighborhood
House.

MEXICO

DEMOGRAPHICS

-- Population: 104,907,991 (July 2003 estimate)

-- Official language: Spanish

-- Ethnic groups: 60% mestizo (mixed native and Spanish ancestry); 30% native
Mexican; 9% white; 1% other

-- Religions: 89% Roman Catholic; 6% Protestant; 5% other

GOVERNMENT

-- Type of government: Federal republic

-- Administrative divisions: 31 states and one federal district

-- Independence: Sept. 16, 1810 (from Spain)

-- Constitution: Feb. 5, 1917

-- Official name: Estados Unidos Mexicanos (United Mexican States)

ECONOMY

-- Currency: peso

-- Gross Domestic Product (GDP): $924.4 billion (2002 estimate)

-- GDP per capita: $8,900 (2001 estimate)

-- Labor force: 39.8 million (2000)

-- Labor force by occupation: 56% services; 24% industry; 20% agriculture

-- Industries: food and beverages, tobacco, chemicals, iron and steel,
petroleum, mining, textiles, clothing, motor vehicles, consumer durables,
tourism

-- Agriculture products: corn, wheat, soybeans, rice, beans, cotton, coffee,
fruit, tomatoes, beef, poultry, dairy and wood products

-- Exports: $158.4 billion (2002 estimate)

-- Export partners: U.S. (82.7%); Canada (5.4%); Japan (1.1%) (2002)

GEOGRAPHY

-- Mexico-U.S. border length: 1,951 miles

-- Natural resources: petroleum, silver, copper, gold, lead, zinc, natural gas,
timber

-- Area: 761,660 sq. miles

-- Climate: varies from tropical to desert

-- Terrain: high, rugged mountains; low coastal plains; high plateaus; desert

CULTURE

-- Most popular sports: soccer and baseball

-- Popular music: mariachi, norteno, tejano, salsa, banda, sonidera, corrido,
regional folk

-- National dance: Mexican Hat Dance

-- Food: Three main staples are corn or flour tortillas, beans and chili
peppers. Cuisine varies among regions, from hot and spicy to rich and sweet.

-- Traditional holidays: Constitution Day (Feb. 5); Benito Juarez's Birthday
(March 21); Cinco de Mayo (May 5); Independence Day (Sept. 16); Day of the Dead
(Oct. 31); All Saints' Day (Nov. 1); Revolution Day (Nov. 20); Day of Our Lady
of Guadalupe (Dec. 12).

HERITAGE AND HISTORY

-- Olmecs: first great civilization of Mexico, 5,000 years ago.

-- Zapotecs: About 600 B.C., filled southern Mexico with pyramids and temples.

-- Mayan culture rose across southern Mexico and Central America by A.D. 400.

-- Aztecs: ruled central Mexico around A.D. 1300.

-- Spanish: led by Hernando Cortes, conquered the Aztecs in the 16th century.
Mexicans revolted against. Mexico gained independence in 1821.

-- The Mexican-American War of 1846-48 forced Mexico to give up much of what is
now the U.S. Southwest.

-- The Mexican Revolution began in 1910 when peasants fought to gain land from
wealthy property owners.

-- The Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) controlled Mexico's government
from the late 1920s until 2000, when Vicente Fox of the National Action Party
(PAN) was elected president.

PEOPLE

-- Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla: Led the 1810 rebellion against the Spanish.
Considered the father of modern Mexico.

-- Benito Juarez: First Native president of Mexico from 1857-1872.

-- Emiliano Zapata and Francisco "Pancho" Villa: Popular heroes of the 1910-1917
Mexican Revolution.

-- Literature: Sister Juana Ines de la Cruz, poet; Nobel Prize-winning poet
Octavio Paz; Carlos Fuentes; writers Juan Rulfo ("Pedro Paramo"); Laura Esquivel
("Like Water for Chocolate")

-- Artists: Diego Rivera; Jose Clemente Orozco; David Alfaro Suqueiros; Frida
Kahlo; Luis Zarate; Rodolfo Morales

-- Filmmakers: Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu ("Amores Perros"; "21 Grams");
Alfonso Cuaron ("Y Tu Mama Tambien"; "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban")

MINNESOTA CENSUS SNAPSHOT

Mexican population in some Minnesota cities in 2000

Minneapolis 19,835

St. Paul 16,565

Willmar 1,806

Rochester 1,543

Worthington 1,554

Faribault 1,406

Albert Lea 1,326

Austin 1,166

Moorhead 885

St. James 822

A decade of change

All Minnesotans Mexicans in Minnesota

1990 2000 1990 2000

Poverty rate 10% 8%; 28% 21%

Women in labor force 63% 66%; 65% 62%

Homeowners 72% 75%; 48% 42%

25+ w/ H.S. diploma 33% 29%; 30% 24%

25+ w/ B.A. or higher 22% 27%; 11% 10%

Speak English well 99% 98%; 94% 73%

Change in Mexican pop.1980-2000: 368%

Median household income in 1999 dollars

Minnesotans Mexicans

1989 $40,116 $32,197

1999 $47,111 $35,546

All of Minnesota Mex. pop. % Mex. in Minn. % Mex. in Latino pop.

1980 4,075,970 20,437 0.5% 64%

1990 4,375,099 34,691 0.8% 64%

2000 4,919,479 95,613 1.9% 67%

LOCAL AGENCIES

-- Chicano Latino Affairs Council, St. Paul, www.clac.state.mn.us, 651-296-9587

-- Centro Campesino, Owatonna, 507-446-9599

-- Centro Legal, St. Paul, 651-642-1890

-- Chicanos Latinos Unidos En Servicio (CLUES), St. Paul and Minneapolis,
www.clues.org, 651-379-4200, 612-746-3500

Sources: CIA World Factbook (2003); "Mexico: The Lands, Peoples, and Cultures
Series," Bobbie Kalman, Crabtree Publishing Co., 1993; Minnesota Historical
Society; lonelyplanet.com; U.S. Census Bureau; photos.com; clipart.com; Pioneer
Press archives

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE GROWING TIES: MINNESOTA AND MEXICO

NOTES: See related stories: "EL NUEVO MINNESOTA"; EL NUEVO MINNESOTA
THE MEXICAN-AMERICAN EXPERIENCE"; "MEXICAN-MINNESOTAN HERITAGE CAPTURED IN
PHOTOGRAPH"

GRAPHIC: 3 PHOTOS: MINNESOTA HISTORICAL SOCIETY

1) Gabriel Avaloz made a point of it with his children as often as he felt
necessary: Be proud of your heritage. It was 62 years ago when Mexican
immigrants Avaloz and his wife, Esther, posed their sons Faustino, left, and
George for a portrait before the annual Mexican Independence Day celebration in
St. Paul. Where are they now? See story on Page 13A.

2) St. Paul procession in honor of the Virgin Mary at Our Lady of Guadalupe
Church in December 1950.

3) Augie Garcia, playing the guitar in 1954.

4 PHOTOS

1) Mayan pyramid at Chichen Itza on the Yucatan peninsula.

2) Francisco "Pancho" Villa

3) Painting of Emiliano Zapata by Diego Rivera.

4) Hear music tracks from the "Musica de la Raza" recording online at
www.twincities.com.

MAP

[Mexico]

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 16, 2004 Wednesday CITY EDITION

SEEKING 'LAND OF OPPORTUNITY'
ILLEGAL MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS RISK ALL FOR BETTER LIFE HERE

BYLINE: PHILLIP PINAPioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1373 words


Maria and her 4-year-old daughter crossed the dusty boundary to opportunity two
months ago, fleeing robbers, border guards and hunger.

The 21-year-old is one of Minnesota's newest immigrants, settling in a Dakota
County apartment with family members who helped pay her way across the
U.S.-Mexico border some 1,900 miles away. Now, she is adjusting to life on the
edge, pursuing jobs that help her and her family survive.

"I want to work and help my parents back home," said Maria, who asked that her
last name not be used for fear of arrest. She also dreams for her daughter, "so
she can get an education."

Those sentiments are echoed by many from Mexico. People grow up viewing the
television images of wealth and hear stories about jobs in the United States.
Then they follow earlier waves of immigrants from around the globe seeking a
better life.

Mexican President Vicente Fox travels to St. Paul on Friday and is likely to
stress the need to protect the human rights of Mexicans living and working
illegally in the region.

Having arrived in late April, Maria works about eight hours a day at various
jobs, from cleaning houses to serving customers at fast-food restaurants. Taxes
are taken out of her paychecks and she routinely sets aside about $150 from each
check to send to her family in a small town outside Puebla, Mexico.

In addition to the Marias, there are the thousands of Americans of Mexican
ancestry and legal immigrants arriving in the Twin Cities from places like
Chicago and California. According to census figures, the Mexican population in
Minnesota grew 368 percent from 1980 to 2000.

But the great unknowns are people like Maria, who risk everything for a shot at
a better life. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services estimated that from
all countries there were 60,000 undocumented immigrants in Minnesota in 2000.

The unauthorized immigrant population in the United States increased an
estimated 100 percent between 1990 and 2000 to about 7 million, according to
federal officials. Nearly four of every five of those newcomers is from Mexico.

The effects can be seen in Minnesota, where new immigrants find jobs working in
farm fields, in meatpacking plants, at fast-food restaurants.

And while Minnesota is viewed as generally a welcoming place, there has been
some political backlash, such as laws making it harder for immigrants to get
driver's licenses and other benefits bestowed upon those with legal status.

"Look at the mechanics of what it takes to live in a place like Minnesota: You
need a car, a place to live, a place to bank, a place to shop. For an
undocumented immigrant, it can be extremely difficult," said Jorge Saavedra,
chief legal officer for Centro Legal, a nonprofit legal service helping Latinos
across Minnesota. And since the crackdown on immigration after the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, it has only gotten tougher, he said.

There has been little change to immigration law in the United States in recent
years, despite the Sept. 11 attacks, said Tim Counts, spokesman for the U.S.
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The focus has been narrowed over
the years on the criminal aliens, those accused of other crimes while here.
Figures show federal officials are deporting about the same number of people
from Minnesota and the Dakotas, 1,600 annually, as before Sept. 11, he said.

Saavedra, though, sees a growing criminalization of the entire process and finds
bureaucrats much tougher to work with. Immigration cases handled with ease in
the past are burdened with mounds of paperwork, he said. And some people pulled
over on traffic stops tell stories of having to show residency documentation,
prompting complaints from Mexican-Americans and other legal residents.

In January, Minneapolis Police Chief Robert McManus said his "police department
is not the INS, and we will not do their work for them."

"Members of my community here are finding in some ways a more challenging
environment to live outside of the shadows than people in the 1920s," said
Susana De Leon, an immigration attorney, who emigrated from Mexico almost 20
years ago. "At the same time, the hostile environment that they encountered in
the 1920s has moved out of the public theater."

The border that separates the two nations wasn't always such a challenge. In the
early 1900s and before, there was little to keep anybody from crossing. Border
stations were set up to collect "head taxes," though North Americans, including
Mexicans, did not have to pay.

When quotas were set on immigrants from Europe, some Europeans traveled to
Mexico and entered the United States on fake documents or by crossing the same
paths many Mexicans travel now. The U.S. Border Patrol was set up in 1924 to
stem the smuggling of immigrants and restrictions were soon put on the numbers
of Mexicans entering the country.

During World War II, U.S. agriculture interests began importing seasonal labor
from Mexico. But by the mid-1950s, a public outcry arose over the number of
illegal residents in the United States, so federal officials strengthened border
controls and began deportation programs. And in 1965, Congress replaced national
immigrant quotas with a preference system to attract skilled labor to the United
States.

What to do with the undocumented population remains a sticking point between
Mexico and the United States. President Bush has considered creating a temporary
worker program that would grant renewable three-year labor visas for those
already here and those with job offers.

The proposal doesn't go as far as the Reagan-era amnesty program, when the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 allowed about 3 million undocumented
people to apply for permanent resident status if they had been in the country
since 1982.

Many Latinos on St. Paul's West Side descend from families that immigrated in
the 1910s, fleeing the violence of the Mexican Revolution. Mexican-Americans as
well as newly arrived Mexican immigrants later arrived to work as migrant
laborers.

Francisco Rangel worked for the railroads in the United States in the early
1900s and had planned on returning to his homeland, but the revolution made it
too dangerous. So he and his wife, Cresencia, went north to Minnesota. They
settled on the West Side of St. Paul and he took a job at the Cudahy meatpacking
plant.

They gave up their homeland, but not their heritage. They raised a musical
family whose bands remain a staple at Mexican-American celebrations in St. Paul.
There was always a sense of being different from the rest of their Minnesota
neighbors, but the community "created one big family," said the Rangels' son,
Francisco "Kico" Rangel, who was born, raised and still lives in the
neighborhood.

Their success is what many of the latest immigrants hope for.

Maria watched as one by one her older siblings left for the United States. In
April, it was her turn. Arrangements were made through a smuggler, or "coyote."
The cost: $5,000. Her family here raised the money.

She and her daughter started out on foot from the desert town of Nogales,
Mexico, on the Arizona border. They were told to leave everything behind. It
could slow them down.

For four hours they walked across the dusty terrain, often crouching to avoid
detection. Be quiet. Follow the plan. Be on the lookout. About 13 miles after
crossing near Rio Rico, Ariz., her group met a man with a car who drove them to
a house. About 20 people were already inside waiting for their next rides, she
said.

Over four days, her handlers drove Maria and her daughter to Tucson, Phoenix and
then Salt Lake City, where they caught a flight to Minneapolis.

"It's the land of opportunity," she said of the journey north.

Phillip Pina can be reached at ppina@pioneerpress.com.

chris polydoroff, pioneer press

An illegal immigrant from Mexico now living in the Twin Cities, Maria declined
to be identified by her full name or have her face photographed. She and her
4-year-old daughter crossed into the United States two months ago, in search of
a better life. "I want to work and help my parents back home," said the
21-year-old Maria, who is living here with family members.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The Growing TiesMinnesota and Mexico

NOTES: See related story: Page 6A: Six who are making mark on Minnesota
Mexican-Americans sharing opportunity

GRAPHIC: Photo: RICHARD MARSHALL, PIONEER PRESS

"Everybody knew him," musician Francisco "Kico" Rangel says of his father, who
put down roots in St. Paul in the 1920s.

Photo: CHRIS POLYDOROFF, PIONEER PRESS

An illegal immigrant from Mexico now living in the Twin Cities, Maria declined
to be identified by her full name or have her face photographed.

2 Graphics: Pioneer Press

Immigration

Minnesota has become an attractive destination for unauthorized immigrants. Of
those states with more than 2,500 undocumented immigrants, Minnesota has the
nation's ninth fastest growing population of such residents. Nationwide, about
69 percent of the estimated 7 million unauthorized residents in year 2000 were
from Mexico.

*The top states by percentage increase number of immigrants

Immigrants moving to Minnesota come from more than 150 countries. In 2002, the
latest year statistics were available, Mexican immigrants with green cards
moving to the state ranked fourth highest among those with green cards, which
grant permanent residency.

*The top 5 countries of origin: Number of immigrants

(see microfilm)

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 17, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

BRIDGING THE BORDER GAP
MEXICAN AND OTHER LATINO CULTURES ARE GAINING A FOOTHOLD IN MINNESOTA,
INFLUENCING TASTES AND COMMERCE, AS THE STATE'S POPULATION OF IMMIGRANTS GROWS.

BYLINE: JIM RAGSDALE Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1037 words


The land of lefse loves the chile relleno, but the mariachis have not yet
strolled into Minnesota's mainstream.

Mexico and its culture, from its spicy foods to its musical Spanish language,
have become part of the Main Street economy of rural Minnesota and of older
urban corridors of the Twin Cities. While there have been cultural exchanges --
mainly over the dinner table -- sober, salt-and-pepper Minnesota has kept a
polite distance.

Those who are building the new Mexico-in-Minnesota believe, however, there are
cracks in the ice.

"I think there's more of an interest," said Milissa Silva Diaz, who helps run El
Burrito Mercado, a popular market and restaurant on St. Paul's West Side that
her parents started 26 years ago. "There are different motives for different
people -- whether they like the food or because they love the Latin culture and
language. ... Definitely, our client base is more diverse."

Put it this way: El Burrito Mercado sold food at the St. Paul Winter Carnival
for the first time this year and pollo Mexicana, one of the hottest items on its
restaurant menu, has a growing following in this spice-averse state.

"Some Anglo Minnesotans come here specifically for that," she said. "It's really
hot. They say, 'I love this stuff.' "

Those who take their pollo without gallons of agua are at the front door of a
budding cultural exchange. It is spearheaded by a boomlet of Mexican and Latino
businesses that now cater primarily to immigrants from Mexico and other
Spanish-speaking countries.

While President Vicente Fox's visit focuses attention on Mexico, the Latin
culture of the Caribbean and central and South America has also given Minnesota
a splash of multi-ethnic color and rhythm.

The booming salsa dance craze, although of Caribbean origins, has been boosted
by the growth in Spanish-speaking immigrants from Mexico, said Don DeBoer, who
teaches Latin dance in Minneapolis. Pro baseball's Latin connection -- the
Minnesota Twins have eight foreign-born Latino players on their 25-man roster --
is another cross-cultural meeting place.

Rep. Carlos Mariani, DFL-St. Paul, whose district includes the Hispanic
community of St. Paul's West Side, said Minnesota's "concept of community" has
changed, particularly in rural communities. While he said the two cultures still
"lean toward separateness," the widespread popularity of Cinco de Mayo
celebrations shows that the cultures are learning from each other.

The older Mexican-American community in the West Side of St. Paul now has
competition from newer Latino centers on Lake Street in Minneapolis, Payne
Avenue in St. Paul and in the commercial strips of meatpacking towns such as
Austin and Worthington. Spanish-language newspapers are available in shops in
Worthington as well as at El Burrito Mercado in St. Paul.

On Lake Street in Minneapolis, the Mercado Central, a large development of
nearly 50 Latino shops and restaurants, will celebrate its fifth anniversary
this summer. Patricia Brown, business adviser at the Mercado, said marketing
surveys have shown that three-fourths of the customers are Latino.

Brown said businesses catering to urban tourists -- selling Mexican items at
higher prices -- closed down and have been replaced by businesses focusing on
Latino customers. The main "crossover" items, she said, include pinatas for
parties, images of the Virgin Mary and sugar skulls to be used for Day of the
Dead celebrations around Halloween.

Brown said the Mexican culture is being shared more broadly, primarily because
thousands of students make field trips to the center each year to practice their
Spanish and soak in the culture. The businesses themselves, she said, show a
permanent commitment from a community once thought to be transient.

Although Minnesota is 1,400 miles from the Mexican border, it has become a
destination for job seekers. Silva Diaz of El Burrito Mercado said few days pass
that she does not interview an applicant who says, "Acabo de llegar," meaning,
"I just arrived." Her hope is that the Fox visit can lead to a more stable
immigration program for those seeking work, and for employers charged with
examining their papers.

The influx, although small compared to the state's population, has helped
redevelop parts of Payne Avenue on St. Paul's East Side. At the corner of Payne
and Sims, the Plaza Latina houses a mini-mall of Hispanic shops and eateries and
is surrounded by a number of bakeries, markets and restaurants catering to
Hispanic immigrants.

Jess Cardoza sells gift items from Mexico's Aztec and Catholic traditions; an
Aztec calendar is displayed near a clock bearing the image of Our Lady of
Guadalupe. At a nearby stall, Maria Lopez, originally from Guanajuato, Mexico,
offers Spanish-language movies and music and picks out a bloody action flick
with a bull-fighting motif as her best-seller.

A few doors away, Salvador Sanchez sells western clothing and elaborate cowboy
boots at his store, along with a selection of popular music. The $500 to $600
boots are popular when there is a big social event, such as the recent concert
by a Mexican band in St. Paul, he said.

"People buy them like crazy," he said. These businesses, while serving primarily
the Latino community, are helping to remake hard-hit urban areas and are
changing the look and feel of the urban landscape.

There are other, more subtle, exchanges. At the Mall of America, the "Made in
Mexico" label is attached to T-shirts bearing the American flag and the
maroon-and-gold colors of the University of Minnesota. In an era of free trade,
Mexico has become a center for low-wage manufacturing, a bountiful source of
retail goods and a source of unease for U.S. workers.

The ultimate test of Mexican cultural influence is whether the new Minnesotans
come here to work temporarily, or decide to stay and raise families. A walk-up
office in the Mercado Central offers services for both temporary visitors and
permanent residents -- money orders for those wanting to send hard-earned cash
home, and real estate advice for those looking to stay and buy into the American
dream.

Jim Ragsdale can be contacted at jragsdale@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5529.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The Growing Ties Minnesota and Mexico

GRAPHIC: 3 PHOTOS: BY NATHAN BERNDT, PIONEER PRESS

1. Watching some dancing, Carlos Vasquez, left, and Juan Dominguez share a laugh
during a festival of Mexican culture -- which included music and food, in
addition to the dancing -- on St. Paul's East Side near Payne Avenue on
Saturday.

2. Balloons with the message "Viva Mexico" float above revelers' heads during
the festival on Saturday.

3. Holding aloft the prize, cowboy boots, Tanis Ruiz awards Gregorio Gonzalez
for dancing with an ornate 150-pound bull's-head costume on his head.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 18, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANT NUMBERS CONTINUE TO SWELL
STATE REPORT SURPRISES, GIVEN ECONOMY, 9;
11

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 502 words


Latinos, Hmong, Somalis and Vietnamese continued to boost the immigrant
population in Minnesota over the past four years despite the recession and
restrictions on immigration, according to a state report released Thursday.

The growth of the immigrant groups due to new arrivals and U.S.-born children
was surprising because it coincided with the economic slowdown and aftermath of
the 2001 terrorist attacks, according to the author of the report.

"Despite the recession and despite 9/11, immigrants are still coming to
Minnesota, and they're coming in large numbers," said Barbara J. Ronningen, a
senior research analyst at the Minnesota Demographic Center.

Latinos were the largest immigrant group examined in the study. The report
estimated the Latino population in Minnesota at 175,000 for 2004, a 22 percent
increase from the 2000 census.

The report estimated the Hmong population at 60,000, a 32 percent increase since
the 2000 census. The Hmong population will grow with the arrival of about 5,000
refugees from Thailand by the end of this year.

Somalis showed the largest percentage gains of any immigrant group. The report
estimated the population of Somalis at 25,000, a jump of 124 percent over the
past four years.

Saeed Fahia, executive director of the Confederation of Somali Community in
Minnesota, said the most recent growth estimates probably were skewed because he
believed the 2000 census numbers were too low.

"My feeling is there was probably an undercount to begin with," he said.

Fahia said immigration from Africa only recently had begun picking up after
slowing to a trickle following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Secondary
migration of Somalis from other states could not account for such a huge
increase, he said.

The Vietnamese population grew to about 25,000 this year, an increase of more
than 21 percent since 2000, according to the report.

The study also examined trends among Russians, Laotians, Cambodians and
Ethiopians. The full text is available at www.demography.state.mn.us.

In 2002, 13,522 immigrants came to Minnesota from 160 countries on every
continent except Antarctica. The largest number came from Somalia, which 10
years earlier had sent only six immigrants to Minnesota, according to the
report.

Other populations also showed changing immigration patterns. In 1982, people
from Southeast Asia made up two-thirds of immigrants to the state but 10 years
later comprised just 8 percent of legal immigrants.

The estimates were derived using school enrollment data for language spoken at
home and a formula that takes into account what portion of an immigrant group is
of school age. Ronningen said calculating immigrant populations is difficult and
the estimates may vary as much as 10 percent from the real population.

"Three years ago, we didn't think these numbers would go up quite so rapidly
because of 9/11," said Ronningen. "After 9/11, the United States closed the
gates. Refugee arrivals went down after that."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See microfilm for chart: Immigrant population growth - The Minnesota
Demographic Center estimates substantial 2004 growth in immigrant communities.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 18, 2004 Friday CITY EDITION

PAYCHECKS GOING HOME
IMMIGRANT WORKERS TRANSFER BILLIONS TO MEXICO

BYLINE: MIKE HUGHLETTPioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 994 words


St. Paul resident Luis Majia Portillo is a hero in the eyes of Mexican President
Vicente Fox.

Portillo has never met Fox. And frankly, he says he doesn't have time to even
follow politics in his homeland. He's too busy working at a South St. Paul
tannery, making money to send to his family in Mexico.

Yet that is the very source of his heroism.

Fox, who is slated to visit St. Paul today, has lauded immigrants like Portillo
as heroes because of the billions of dollars they send back to their homeland.
Their remittances help keep the Mexican economy afloat, rivaling the country's
vital oil sector as a source of hard cash, and generating more foreign exchange
than Mexico's significant tourism industry.

"It's one of the bright spots of the Mexican economy," said Roberto Coronado, an
economic analyst at the El Paso branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

Mexican emigrants sent more than $13 billion to their homeland in 2003. That
number has been rising appreciably in recent years, partly because of
improvements in how remittances are tracked.

Mexico is the largest receiver of remittances in the world. The United States,
on the other hand, is the largest sender, much of that cash going south of the
Rio Grande.

Portillo, 49, sends up to half of his $450 weekly paycheck to his wife and eight
children in Morelos, a small Mexican state just south of Mexico City. "Down
there, they use the money for the same thing as here. Educate the children,
clothe the children, fix the house," Portillo said through an interpreter.

Portillo's house in Morelos has been paid for with years of work in the United
States.

While he once worked as a driver in his hometown, the pay wasn't good enough to
support his family. So, he came to the United States 14 years ago, settling in
Arizona for four years and then moving to Minnesota after hearing that wages
were higher here.

He's worked the past 10 years at Twin City Hide, and currently is a union shop
steward there for United Food and Commercial Workers Local 789. He lives in St.
Paul with a Mexican immigrant family, renting a room for about $400 a month.

Portillo's goal: to work in the United States for about 15 more years, and then
retire to his spread in Mexico. All the while, he plans to keep sending money
back.

Remittances have become even more important in the past couple of years as
Mexico's economy has struggled. The country's important maquiladora
manufacturing sector has suffered along with the U.S. manufacturing industry;
the two, after all, are closely tied.

But the maquiladoras have also been facing tougher competition as China has
built up its manufacturing base in recent years, stealing business -- and
ultimately jobs -- from Mexico in the process.

"They are under real pressure," said Donald Terry, a senior official at the
Washington, D.C.-based Inter-American Development Bank, which is owned by 46
nations.

The North American Free Trade Act, which liberalized trade between Mexico and
the United States, helped create about 1 million manufacturing jobs in Mexico,
particularly in Mexican states near the U.S. border, Terry said.

But about 350,000 of those jobs are estimated to have melted away in recent
years because of competition from China, he said.

Remittances have helped cushion the blow because they are counter-cyclical,
economists say. Mexican natives working in the United States tend to remit more
money when times are tougher for their families back home.

That money can make a big difference for a Mexican family. Just ask Jose
Gutierrez, who also works at Twin City Hide.

Like Portillo, the 24-year-old Gutierrez sends up to 50 percent of his pay back
to his mother and father and three younger siblings. The family owns a small
farm in Michoacan, a relatively poor rural state located directly west of Mexico
City.

Without his remittances, the family's farm wouldn't survive, Gutierrez said
through an interpreter.

Gutierrez lives in St. Paul, sharing an apartment with five other immigrants,
paying $180 per month in rent. He came to Minnesota five years ago after hearing
about opportunities for work.

Plus, he knew he'd find compatriots from his home state in Minnesota. "There's a
lot of people from Michoacan here," he said.

They send a lot of money home, too, whether they live in Minnesota or other U.S.
states. Michoacan receives more remittances than any other Mexican state, at
least as measured by a percentage of each state's economic output, said a recent
report from the Dallas Fed based on data from Banco de Mexico.

Almost 16 percent of Michoacan's Gross State Product comes from remittances,
about $425 per capita. That per capita figure equates to about 40 percent of the
Mexican minimum wage per day for each Michoacan resident, said the Dallas Fed's
Coronado.

Remittances do have a potential downside as a tool for economic development:
over-reliance. "There might be a dependency syndrome -- that is a legitimate
risk," said Dilip Ratha, a senior economist at the World Bank in Washington.

But Ratha, who has studied remittances extensively, said he believes the
benefits of remittances far outweigh the dependency risk.

First, remittances provide a country with hard currency, not loans like foreign
aid, Ratha said. Second, remittances are an efficient way of getting money into
the hands of people who really need it.

"It's better targeted," Ratha said. The person sending the remittance tailors it
to the needs of the person receiving it. "If it's not used for what it's
supposed to be used for, it can be stopped."

Foreign aid or government programs, on the other hand, involve channeling money
through bureaucracies, increasing the possibility of inefficiencies. "At the
government-to-government level, the decision-making process can be lethargic,"
Ratha said.

Mike Hughlett can be reached at mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or at 651-228-5428.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The Growing Ties Minnesota and Mexico

GRAPHIC: Chart

FROM MINNESOTA TO LATIN AMERICA, 2004

Mexicans make up the majority of Latin Americans who send money back home from
the U.S. Here's how the numbers break out for Latin Americans in Minnesota:

Total amount of remittances to Latin America $147 million

Number of Latin American adult immigrants 78,322

Average amount sent per Latin American adult immigrant $1,877

Percentage of immigrants that send money regularly 56%

Average number of times sent per year 14

Average amount sent with each remittance $240

Source: Bendixen & Associates via Inter-American Development Bank

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      June 19, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION DEBATE PLAYS OUT ON STREET CORNER

BYLINE: Ruben Rosario, Pioneer Press Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 706 words


It began as an ideological boxing match, albeit from a distance.

On one corner, in a lounge chair, sat William "Willie From the East Side"
Sorlien, and next to him a large sign that was attracting some attention from
the stone-faced Secret Service agents and the largely Latino spectators across
the street.

"Yanquis Go Home," it read, except that the word "Yanquis" had been crossed out
and replaced with the word "Illegals."

At the other corner diagonally across the street, Efe Sanchez and a handful of
bystanders cast suspicious glances at Sorlien as they stood behind a police
barricade.

Both were waiting for El Presidente -- Vicente Fox, the president of the United
States of Mexico -- to arrive at La Academia Cesar Chavez, a charter school on
St. Paul's East Side.

To be sure, some folks did not like the sign.

"One guy threatened to kick my a- -, and I believe I learned new Spanish swear
words today," he said after Fox's motorcade left the school.

If a distinct, visible minority on this street corner on this day, Sorlien is
definitely not alone in his views on illegal immigration.

According to a poll commissioned by the Associated Press last month, citizens in
the United States and five European nations -- Britain, France, Germany, Italy
and Spain -- were more likely than not to say they had negative views about
immigrants.

The views no doubt are influenced by concerns over jobs and terrorism, as the
poll pointed out. The poll, however, did not survey for bigotry, as much an
underlying factor as any in this vitriolic debate.

More than 150 years ago, the Irish, fleeing starvation in their country, were
described in various articles and newspapers in America as subhuman and
monkeylike.

Pioneering generations of many other groups have felt the sting of
discrimination and ostracism. That ugly tradition is alive and well.

"Every fall you should be allowed to purchase a Mexican hunting license which
would allow you to shoot 2 males, 1 female and 5 kids to help reduce the budget
... and the surplus number of illegal Mexicans in Minnesota," one e-mailer wrote
to this columnist.

"The Mexican in the article" -- a June 15 Pioneer Press column about an
undocumented restaurant owner -- "should be tried and executed on Univision,"
wrote another reader, from Dallas. "That'll teach the little brown maggots to
stay on their side of the f - - - - - - Rio Grande."

The grandson of Norwegian immigrants, Sorlien was taken aback by such feedback.
His opposition, he maintained, is grounded in logic rather than hate. Crossing
the border is against the law, he noted. A union construction worker, Sorlien
also has seen colleagues laid off and contracts nixed by employers who prefer to
hire illegals and pay them dirt-cheap wages.

"Maybe three or four years ago, there wouldn't be much of an argument," he said.
"'But with the economy the way it has been, and people losing jobs, sitting on
the bench as we say in the trade, well ... "

At the other corner, Sanchez, who came here from Mexico four years ago, reacted
angrily at the sign.

"We're all one America and if we are going to send back people, we should
remember that this land was taken away from the Indians, and some of it from the
Mexicans," she said. "So, that guy over there (Sorlien) is also an illegal."

She then described conditions at an unnamed Twin Cities factory where a brother
works.

"The employer can't find Americans to do the jobs," Sanchez said. "Everyone who
works there are illegals. It's so bad that he has to protect and hide them when
he gets word that La Migra (Immigration) is coming."

Sorlien said he is not adamantly opposed to a proposal to grant temporary work
visas to undocumented but law-abiding immigrants who are steadily employed and
have lived here for at least five years.

"There has got to be a solution, because I'm empathetic, I'm simpatico with
their plight," Sorlien said. "Coming from a 40 percent poverty-stricken country,
with a family to feed, I can't lie to you, I'd be doing the same thing."

"He said that?" Sanchez asked, genuinely surprised.

Perhaps there is common ground after all.

Ruben Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The Growing Ties Minnesota and Mexico

GRAPHIC: Photo: BEN GARVIN, PIONEER PRESS

Seven-year-old Omar Cano of St. Paul finds relief from the sun while waiting for
Mexican President Vicente Fox and Gov. Tim Pawlenty to arrive at the Governor's
Residence. About 50 people gathered across the street from the Summit Avenue
mansion to raise awareness for a slew of issues, including free trade, striking
teachers in Mexico and the unsolved killings of women in Juarez, Chihuahua.
People also turned out in support of the president.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 20, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ENRICH MINNESOTA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 482 words


The United States has always renewed itself with immigrants. On this day, as
Minnesota gets ready to welcome Hmong from the Wat Tham Krabok refugee camp in
Thailand, new information about the changing face of Minnesota provides a richer
view of who we have become in a time when Lake Wobegon is long gone.

Minnesota's renewal is going just fine, thank you.

Latinos, Hmong, Somalis and Vietnamese have heartily increased the immigrant
population during the last four years, a study by the Minnesota Demographic
Center finds. The study estimates the Latino population here at 175,000, up 22
percent since the last U.S. Census in 2000. The Somali population, according to
the study, has grown to about 25,000 while the Vietnamese immigrant community
has grown to a similar number. The Hmong, who are expecting several thousand
friends and relatives from Wat, now number about 60,000, according to the
demographic center's research. The study found that in 2002, immigrants came to
Minnesota from 160 countries.

This, despite tighter economic conditions and clampdowns in the post-9/11
environment.

Archbishop Harry J. Flynn of the Catholic Archdiocese of St. Paul and
Minneapolis, writing in a column on the next page, identifies some of the
reasons immigrants thrive here.

Four reasons, we think, are defining reasons that Minnesota is a good place to
come to:

-- The universal human desire to join family and friends already here.

-- The welcoming and expert hands of social service agencies here, including
Catholic Charities and Lutheran Social Services.

-- The widely held belief of moral imperative.

-- Economic and social opportunity.

Today, of course, is Father's Day. It also is World Refugee and Migrant Day. The
two are a good fit, especially as St. Paul anticipates family reunions in Hmong
households, where a distant war will finally end for some. It is also a day to
remember how much richer the new Minnesota is for tending the welcome mat,
whether for Finns and Norwegians long ago or Liberians and Latinos now.

PREPARATIONS FOR HMONG REFUGEES

-- Ramsey County is seeking volunteer translators to help the social workers
human services staff.

-- The St. Paul School District is setting up Transitional Language Centers to
help Hmong children who don't speak English.

-- Area Hmong have been scouring the housing market to find homes for their
incoming relatives. The city of St. Paul has also assembled a list of available
-- not necessarily affordable -- housing.

-- The city is seeking donations from companies to ease the refugees'
transition. The city is also trying to learn what sort of job training local
companies can offer.

-- The federal government allocates $800 for each incoming refugee to help ease
the transition; $400 goes to resettlement agencies and the rest goes to the
refugee.

Source: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 20, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

'WE HAD NEVER RIDDEN IN A CAR BEFORE'
ON EVE OF FIRST HMONG REFUGEES' ARRIVAL, PAST IMMIGRANTS RECALL THEIR
EXPERIENCES

BYLINE: TODD NELSONPioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1602 words


They have struggled to survive in a wasteland of dust, heat, hunger and poverty.

As they peer out the airplane window, as they set foot for the first time in the
Twin Cities, the Hmong refugees who begin arriving Monday night from Thailand
will experience events and emotions that will stay with them the rest of their
lives.

That's in part because the place they are coming to could hardly be more
different from the one they are leaving, scarcely six months after the State
Department announced plans to resettle 15,500 Hmong living at a squatters'
shantytown on the grounds of a Buddhist temple north of Bangkok. Some have lived
there for 10 years or more. For many children, the crowded squalid camp is the
only home they have known. Over the next six months, an estimated 5,000 will
rejoin relatives in Minnesota.

If the first impressions of past refugees are any guide, the newcomers can look
forward to moments ranging from the mundane to the extraordinary. Shoveling down
that first Big Mac and fries. Sleeping on a mattress. Learning a new English
phrase from the Latino kids next door. Feeling free and yet dependent on others
to show the way.

On the eve of the arrival of the next wave of Hmong refugees, others who have
traveled similar paths before them shared some of their first memories:

FREEDOM AND UNCERTAINTY

Michael Yang, 33, interim director of Hmong Americans for Public Policy, arrived
with family on June 19, 1979, at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.

"You have bad memories of the war, struggling through life and then suddenly
you're free," Michael Yang said. "It's just whole feelings of calmness and at
the same time uncertainty, because you don't know what the future holds for you.

"You're locked between a big smile and tears in your eyes and feeling some
uncertainty."

Everything was different: the buildings, the language, the people, their
clothes.

"I remember being in the camp my whole life with all Asian people. Suddenly
we're in the midst of white Americans, African-Americans. The diversity was a
180-degree turnaround. It was a brand new world. ... I think I took it a little
bit better as a young kid. For my parents, they were between silence with
happiness and uncertainty with where we are."

The first car ride was harrowing.

"We were holding onto the seat like crazy," Michael Yang said. "We felt like the
car was going to crash into the street or into another car. We had never ridden
in a car before. We didn't know what a car was like. We didn't know how he could
control the car."

At the apartment, a relative showed them how to work the stove, the toilet, the
telephone and other modern conveniences. A simpler method of cooking rice, a
staple of every meal that in the camps is steamed in water boiled over an open
fire, was a revelation.

"We learned every day, all of those incredible experiences," Michael Yang said.
"Especially the rice cooker. You just plug it into a socket. We were like, 'This
must be magic.' "

PIECING TOGETHER A PAST

MayKao Hang, adult services director for Ramsey County Human Services, was 4
years old when her family landed in Milwaukee in August 1976. They moved to St.
Paul the next year.

She got off the plane, and someone handed her a Barbie.

"My little sister got a Raggedy Ann," MayKao Hang recalled. "She was very upset
about that. She wanted the Barbie. That was my first memory of a material
possession in this country."

Her doll was blond, tall and white, like most of the people greeting her family.
It was the first time she had seen a doll, or people, like that.

"They were just huge," MayKao Hang recalls of the people she saw at the airport.
"Some of them were blond, which I thought was really strange."

Her family lived with their non-Hmong sponsors for the first month, and through
a misunderstanding went hungry for much of that time.

"We couldn't understand anything they said," she recalled. "My mother somehow
got it into her head that the only thing we could eat was bread. We were afraid
to touch the fruit. She didn't want the sponsor to think we were ungrateful. She
was afraid that if we ate a lot they would turn us out.

"I thought the bread was cake. It was yeasty, so it was kind of sweet. I didn't
think it was real food. What I remember about it was after eating it, I still
felt quite hungry. It didn't fill you up like rice."

The family moved to St. Paul at the suggestion of a friend, leaving a city with
only two Hmong families for one with 10.

"I remember learning to speak English when I came to St. Paul, from the Latino
kids who lived next door," MayKao Hang said. "I have this vivid memory of being
about 5, hanging on the monkey bars. My friend from next door said, 'Let go.' I
thought, 'What does that mean?' Eventually my arms got tired and I let go. Then
I realized what that meant."

WALKING IN THE NEW WORLD

Txongpao Lee, executive director of Hmong Cultural Center, was 15 when his
family resettled in St. Paul in November 1984.

"In Bangkok, it was hot and humid," he remembered. "When we got off the plane in
San Francisco, it was hot and humid, too. They sent out jackets for us and we
said, 'What? It's hot. Why are you giving us these coats?' They said, 'You'd
better prepare.' When we get out of the plane here, it's windy and cold and
snowflakes. ... When you step out of the terminal, your feet get out first and
almost freeze because it's cold."

When they first arrived, he and his family assumed walking, as in Laos and the
refugee camp, was still the best way to get around. A marathon trek one November
or December to go to a Kmart to buy a tape recorder convinced him otherwise. The
tape recorder was essential, to make audiocassette tapes to send to overseas
relatives, one of the only ways to stay in touch.

"It took two hours to get there and two hours to get back home," Txongpao Lee
said. "This was the way we used to walk back in the camp or in Laos and there
was no shame in that. Here we walked on the sidewalk and the street, with buses
and cars coming back and forth, and they see -- wow -- people walking on that
route and that was more like a shame on us."

Everyone was jet-lagged the first few days here and sleep didn't get easier for
his father and some others in the family. All were used to sleeping on a bamboo
mat with soft blankets.

"My dad was not able to sleep on the mattress," Txongpao Lee said. He needed to
have plywood under it to fall asleep. Everyone got plywood under their
mattresses. Myself, I just laid down on the floor for the first few weeks, then
tried to sleep on the bed."

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson @pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

How to help

The first of an estimated 5,000 Hmong refugees from Thailand are expected to
begin arriving in the Twin Cities on Monday. Refugee families resettling in a
foreign culture and climate face difficulty. Organizations and resettlement
agencies are preparing ways to assist families through donations of foods,
household items, clothing and furniture. Some organizations also have family
sponsorship programs to assist families in their new resettlement.

FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS

Hmong American Partnership: Provides support and services for refugee families.
Send contributions to Hmong American Partnership, 1075 Arcade St., St. Paul, MN
55104. Call 651-495-9160 for information.

World Relief -- Minnesota: Donors should indicate to which resettlement group
the donation should be allocated. Mail to: World Relief -- Minnesota, 1515 E.
66th Street, Richfield, MN 55423. Call Carl Nelson at 612-243-2959 for
information.

Minnesota Council of Churches: 122 W. Franklin Ave., Suite 100, Minneapolis, MN
55404. Contact Megan Metzer at 612-230-3224.

HOUSEHOLD ITEMS, CLOTHES

International Institute of Minnesota: Accepting table sets and beds only.
Contact Tessa Trepp at 651-647-0191, Ext. 300, to confirm your donation. Keep
the donations until a family is assigned to receive the donation. Delivery and
pickup plans will be arranged.

World Relief -- Minnesota: Household items or furniture. Donations can be
dropped off at the organization's office, 1515 E. 66th Street, Richfield. Anyone
unable to drop off donations can coordinate a pickup with Carl Nelson at
612-243-2959 or e-mail him at minnesota@wr.org.

Lao Family Community: Clothes and furniture, especially beds, tables and chairs.
Deliver donations to 320 W. University Ave., St. Paul. Arrangements for pickup
of large items available. For more information, contact Ying Vang, executive
director, at 651-221-0069.

Hmong Cultural Center: Any donation that contributes to preparing for winter,
such as boots, scarves, mittens and gloves, winter jackets and hats. People can
bring donations to 995 W. University Ave., Suite 214, St. Paul. Contact Txongpao
Lee or Mark Pfeifer at 651-917-9937.

Minnesota Council of Churches: Beds, bedding and pillows, cleaning and toiletry
supplies and furniture. Only winter outerwear is accepted. Bring donations to
122 W. Franklin Ave., Suite 100, Minneapolis. Contact Megan Metzer at
612-230-3224.

SPONSORING FAMILIES

Minnesota Council of Churches: Sponsors must commit for at least sixth months
and help refugees get settled, including help with job searches, school
enrollment, transportation and even the first visit to a grocery store. For more
information, contact Megan Metzer at 612-230-3224.

New Refugee Friendship Program: A support program for local families who are
taking in relatives resettling in the Twin Cities. If interested, contact Joan
at 651-293-1261.

-- Ching Lo

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Journey to a New Land

GRAPHIC: Photo: Courtesy of Michael Yang

The family of Michael Yang -- now 33 and the interim director of Hmong Americans
for Public Policy -- is pictured on University Avenue on June 20, 1979, a day
after arriving in St. Paul. From left are Seng Vue, a nephew; Michael Yang;
sister Mai Soua Yang; mother Mao Vang; and father John Yang.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       July 6, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

MINNESOTA EDUCATION
ILLEGAL STATUS IN WAY OF COLLEGE
MEXICAN IMMIGRANT FACES FINANCIAL BARRIERS

BYLINE: ELIZABETH OHITO, Mounds View High School, Shoreview

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 585 words


Last winter, 18-year-old Maria was admitted by seven Minnesota colleges. But in
order to attend six of them, the graduate of a Minneapolis public high school
would have to pay out-of-state tuition, up to triple the rate for residents.

Moreover, although her family income would qualify Maria for state and federal
financial help, she can't get it.

Maria is an undocumented immigrant. (Her name has been changed for this
article.) Six years ago, her family illegally migrated from central Mexico to
Minnesota. Today, she is one of the nation's 65,000 undocumented high school
graduates who do not qualify for federal and state college financial assistance.

Elizabeth Badilo Moorman, an organizer for the Twin Cities chapter of ISAIAH, a
social justice organization of religious congregations, describes illegal
students' situation as "a double whammy: they are charged a much higher tuition
at colleges considered most affordable and not eligible for most financial aid."

"When I came here I did not know a word of English," Maria said. Then 11 years
old, Maria quickly learned English and developed an interest in history and
social justice courses.

In high school, her interests evolved into collaboration with other students to
form Alianza, a student social and political group. She became an editor of her
school newspaper and a member of the student council while taking college-level
courses.

"Don't ask, don't tell" is the rule Maria followed when applying to colleges.
She filled out all information except for questions regarding her legal status.
Colleges can rescind scholarship and acceptance based on immigration status.
Maria will attend a school that offers in-state tuition to all students.

Recently proposed federal and state legislation would offer relief to these
students. The DREAM Act, which would allow illegal immigrant students to receive
federal loans, was introduced in the U.S. Senate. A bill in the Minnesota
Legislature would allow undocumented students to receive in-state tuition.
Neither measure has been considered by the full legislative body.

Not everyone supports these efforts. The Federation for American Immigrant
Reform, a Washington, D.C.-based group lobbying for more stringent immigration
policy, has led the opposition to the federal bill and similar state proposals.
Ira Mehlman, the group's media director, said that such legislation is "an
endorsement for illegal immigration." He believes the proposals would be "giving
a seat to an illegal student and asking taxpayers to pay for that."

The difficulty in finding and financing a college education discourages many
undocumented students from applying to college. Angie Gill, a student activist
campaigning for the DREAM Act, says many illegal students believe "if they don't
graduate and don't get accepted, what's the point?" Many of these students start
working immediately after graduation.

Completing college does not guarantee success for undocumented students. Ann
Carter, facilitator at Project Success, an educational assistance and college
preparation program in Minneapolis, said, "Even if they were able to get in and
somehow got the degree, they would still be unable to work legally."

For now, undocumented students must finance their own educations. "I don't have
any help from the school, so right now I am looking for private scholarships,"
Maria said. She said her family's savings could sustain one or two years of her
education. The payment of the rest is uncertain.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: URBAN JOURNALISM WORKSHOP

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      July 13, 2004 Tuesday FIRST EDITION

CONGRESS WILL GET ITS SHARE OF 9;
11 BLAME
PANEL LIKELY TO CITE INERTIA, PRESSURE POLITICS

BYLINE: CHRIS MONDICS, Washington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 568 words


WASHINGTON -- It's gone after the CIA, lax border controls and gaps in the
nation's air-defense system. Now the independent commission that's investigating
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks is readying what's likely to be a harsh assessment
of Congress for failing to grasp the threat that al-Qaida and other terrorist
groups posed.

The panel, which is set to issue its final report July 22, is focusing some of
its final investigative work on the role Congress played as warning signs of a
possible terrorist attack in the United States piled up in the years before
2001.

"Congress is not blameless in this," said former New Jersey Gov. Tom Kean, the
panel's chairman. "They held very few hearings on terrorism. You can't just let
Congress off the hook."

Kean vowed early in the investigation that the panel would look hard at how
Congress supervised the intelligence, immigration and defense agencies charged
with protecting the nation. But unlike the performance of executive-branch
agencies, the issue of congressional accountability seldom arose during the
commission's 12 public hearings.

When the panel has delved into Congress' actions, its findings have suggested
that inertia and pressure politics interfered with national security.

That appears to have been the case in 1996 when Congress passed legislation
ordering the Immigration and Naturalization Service, whose functions are now
part of the Homeland Security Department, to develop a system for tracking
foreigners who were in the country on student visas. The law followed the
disclosure that one of the plotters in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing had
overstayed his student visa.

As the commission detailed in its first staff report Jan. 26, the INS developed
an experimental tracking program in Atlanta in 1996 that included flight
schools. That was prescient, given that several of the Sept. 11 hijackers would
attend flight schools.

But the panel said the program drew opposition from "education interests," who
complained that the reporting requirements were costly and burdensome for
schools with foreign students.

Soon, the manager of the test program was replaced by senior INS management,
which also indefinitely deferred instituting a related test program for a
foreign-student ID card that was to include physical identification such as
fingerprints.

"Senators declared an interest in repealing the 1996 law and sought to obstruct
further INS funding for it," the commission said.

Thus, when Sept. 11 hijacker pilots Marwan al-Shehhi and Mohamed Atta sought to
re-enter the country in January 2001, their false claims to INS inspectors that
they'd returned to continue their studies went undetected, the panel said,
because there was no foreign-student tracking system in place that could have
indicated there was no record of them.

The paucity of information about Congress' performance amid the growing
terrorist threat hasn't escaped the notice of family members of Sept. 11
victims. They've pushed the panel hard to press the White House for facts and
now want to hear more about why Congress seemed to have been caught unaware by
the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

The panel's final report -- whose projected completion date has been moved up
several days so as not to coincide with the Democratic National Convention --
will be delivered to President Bush and to Congress.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version appeared in City Edition on Page A4.

GRAPHIC: Photo

Gov. Thomas Kean

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      July 15, 2004 Thursday CITY EDITION

FORUM TO STUDY SOMALIS IN U.S.
MACALESTER PROFESSOR PLANS SURVEY OF IMMIGRANT LIFE

BYLINE: AMY MAYRON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 837 words


In the early 1900s, a small number of Somali seamen came to the United States
temporarily to work in factories and help build roads.

In the 1970s, a small number of Somalis came to this country on student visas,
studying from coast to coast at colleges and universities.

But in the 1990s it was different. Thousands of Somalis fled to North America
from their war-ravaged homeland, and suddenly there were families who needed
housing and jobs and children who needed education.

That's why -- for what is believed to be the first time -- Somali leaders,
academics and social service workers will gather in Minnesota for a three-day
conference beginning today on how Somalis are coping in their new land.

"Somalis moved here in large numbers in the last 10 to 15 years," said
Macalester College political science professor Ahmed Samatar, a native Somali
who organized the conference. "There is a compelling reason to understand why
they are here and, more importantly, how they are coping and adapting to life in
the United States."

Minnesota was a natural choice for the conference because the state has the
largest concentration of Somalis, with an estimated 25,000 immigrants, according
to a recent report by the Minnesota Demographic Center. Another 30,000 are
spread around the country, Samatar said, and there are at least 100,000 in
Canada.

People from Massachusetts, Ohio, Canada, Sweden, England and the Netherlands are
coming to the conference, which is open to the public and features presentations
by published professors and panels with community advocates, Somali leaders and
health care workers. Two concerts, Thursday and Saturday nights, will highlight
renowned Somali musicians and singers.

It took Samatar more than two years to put the event together because he had to
commission essays and raise money to bring in the speakers and musicians. The
conference is sponsored by Macalester College, the St. Paul Foundation, the St.
Paul Travelers Foundation, the Minneapolis Foundation, House of Hope
Presbyterian Church, Westminster Presbyterian Church, Global Partners, and the
Leadership, Empowerment and Development Group.

Lidwien Kapteijns, a history professor at Wellesley College in Massachusetts,
wrote a paper about educating Somali young people. She will also lead a
discussion on Somali women.

Originally from the Netherlands, Kapteijns spent many years in Africa and is
fluent in Somali. More recently she has worked closely with the Somali community
focusing on youth and education in the Boston area, home to 3,000 to 5,000
immigrants.

She is particularly concerned about a generation of immigrants, between the ages
of 10 and 25, who lost years of education while their parents were transitioning
from their homes in Somalia to refugee camps and ultimately the United States.

By meeting and talking with other scholars and leaders, she said she hopes to
come up with some plans to reach that population. She recently visited a Somali
charter school in Ohio and believes it might make sense to try educating all
Somali children in bilingual classes so they can catch up to their American
peers.

Also important is educating parents about Western culture and how things like
television and the Internet affect their children, said Mohamoud Hamud, a
community advocate and Mayo Clinic counselor in Rochester, Minn., where there
are several thousand Somali immigrants.

Hamud, a panelist at the conference, came to the United States from Somalia in
the 1970s to attend Cornell University, in upstate New York, where he
encountered fellow immigrants who told him stories about when they or their
relatives came to the United States in the early 1900s, worked for a short time
in places like Buffalo, N.Y., and then returned home with their wages.

That same work ethic prevails today, but at the expense of the children. Fathers
often work 18-hour days and mothers sometimes are illiterate, Hamud said. Just
this week he was talking to parents who didn't have any idea what their son was
viewing on their home computer. So Hamud took a look at the computer and
discovered that the boy was looking at sexually oriented Web sites.

"When people ask Somalis, 'Why are you in this cold country?' the first answer
is 'Because of my children,'" he said. "But they don't have control of what the
kids are watching on TV or doing on the Internet."

Amy Mayron can be reached at amayron@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2174.

IF YOU GO

--What: "Somalis in America: The Challenges of Adaptation," a three-day
conference featuring speakers, panels and concerts

--When: Today through Saturday, beginning at 8:30 a.m. daily

--Where: Macalester College, Weyerhaeuser Memorial Chapel, 1600 Grand Ave., St.
Paul

--Cost: $10 for lectures and panels; $20 for lectures, panels and two evening
concerts. All events, except the dinners, are open to the public. Participants
can register at the door.

--More information: www.macalester.edu/ internationalstudies/ program.pdf

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Ahmed Samatar

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      July 17, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

CHECKMATE FOR FUGITIVE CHESS GREAT
ON RUN SINCE 1992, BOBBY FISCHER CAUGHT

BYLINE: CHARLES LEROUXChicago Tribune

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1106 words


CHICAGO -- In a life marked by moves every bit as bold and bizarre as those he
made in matches, chess grandmaster Bobby Fischer seems finally about to be
checkmated.

In exile, on the run and subject to U.S. arrest for the past 12 years, Fischer
was arrested this week after trying to fly to the Philippines from Narita
airport outside Tokyo with an invalid passport.

Though Japanese immigration officials made the arrest, it came at the urging of
U.S. Immigration and Customs enforcement.

Fischer, 61, now is fighting extradition to the United States to face a charge
that carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

His offense is violating the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and
Executive Order 12810. The charge stems from his 1992 chess rematch against his
archrival, the Soviet Union's Boris Spassky.

The act and order prohibited U.S. residents from taking part in commercial
activities relating to Yugoslavia, the site of the rematch. Yugoslavia was under
economic sanction for its involvement in the forced seizure of territory in
Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina.

Fischer ignored a letter from the Treasury Department stating that the match
would constitute "exportation of services" to Yugoslavia. He went anyway and
held a news conference there. He held up the letter from Treasury ordering him
not to play.

"This is my reply," he said, clearing his throat and spitting violently on the
letter.

The news conference was, by Fischer's order, held with written questions that
had been submitted for approval. It was not the only demand he would make during
his stay in Yugoslavia.

At the rematch, Fischer asked for everything from a match-area toilet seat to be
raised by an inch to a dozen handmade shirts that were exact copies of the one
he wore 20 years earlier when he beat the Russian in Iceland and became both the
only American world champion and a Cold War symbol of an American triumph.

At the rematch with Spassky in Yugoslavia, after donning what he called a
"riverboat gambler" visor that he said energized him and gave the advantage that
"your opponent can't see what you're looking at," Fischer won, collected $3.35
million -- and the U.S. government indicted him.

He has been on the lam ever since. For all that time, the United States has been
engaged in a chess game of sorts with the grandmaster as he moved from country
to country.

All the while, the chess world crackled with speculation about where Fischer was
and what he was doing. Occasionally he would pop up, often under odd
circumstances.

In 1996, he announced he had abandoned the standard game of chess and had
launched a new version in Argentina, "Fischerandom," a computerized shuffler
that randomly distributes chess pieces on the back row of the board at the start
of each game.

Fischer claimed it would bring the fun back into the game and rid it of cheats.

In 2001, in an extensive Atlantic Monthly article, writer Rene Chun found
Fischer working as a disk jockey broadcasting from DZSR Sports Radio, an AM
station in Manila.

Fischer spun classic R&B records and spewed venom at his enemies including:

-- The U.S. government, a "brutal, evil dictatorship," that falsely accused him
of a crime, thus forcing his exile.

-- World Jewry, people, he said, bent on such evils as the mass murder of
Christian children ("their blood is used for black-magic ceremonies") and junk
food (Dunkin' Donuts founder William Rosenberg was singled out).

-- The plot by the Rothchilds (Jews), Bill Clinton (secretly a Jew) and
executives at the Bekins moving and storage company (CIA operatives taking
orders from the Jews). This last has to do with memorabilia Fischer stored at
Bekins in Pasadena, Calif., that he contends has been stolen.

Fischer friends and followers have either downplayed his outrageous statements
or said they show he is deranged and needs to be treated, not persecuted.

After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Fischer was interviewed on Bombo
Radyo in Baguio City in the Philippines. His comments about the attacks couldn't
be swept away and were not ignored.

"This is all wonderful news," he said, "I applaud the act. The U.S. and Israel
have been slaughtering the Palestinians, just slaughtering them for years.
Robbing and slaughtering them ... Now it's coming back to the U.S."

With that, the United States Chess Federation, which had always overlooked
outbursts from arguably the greatest grandmaster the world has ever known,
denounced him.

Robert James Fischer was born in Chicago's Michael Reese hospital March 9, 1943.
His father, Gerhardth Fischer (though the paternity is sometimes questioned) was
from Berlin. He was a biophysicist. His mother was Regina Wender. She was
Jewish, thus her son -- despite some recent disputations on his part -- is
Jewish. The parents divorced when Bobby was 2, and Regina, Bobby and his sister
Joan moved to Brooklyn.

There, at age 6, Fischer was given a chess set and became entranced. According
to the chess Web site chess-poster.com, Fischer's mother said, "Bobby isn't
interested in anybody unless they play chess, and there just aren't many
children who like it."

For companionship, she signed him up at the Brooklyn Chess Club, which met
Friday nights. Bobby almost never missed a night. At age 12, he beat a
grandmaster -- who played blindfolded.

Just a year later, though, he beat international master Donald Byrne. At 14, he
won the U.S. Junior Championship. Later that year, he took the Senior
Championship. At 15, he was the youngest grandmaster in the history of chess. At
16, he dropped out of school to make his living at the game.

His emergence this week in Japan was not a complete surprise.

Fischer was rumored to be living there and to have frequented a Tokyo chess
club. It wasn't clear how long he had been in the country.

"He came here often for short stays," said Japan Chess Association member Miyoko
Watai. "He also traveled to the Philippines, Germany, Switzerland and many
places."

Watai, who said she talked to Fischer in custody, said he "didn't know that his
passport had been revoked ... He had been traveling frequently over the past 10
years, and there was never a problem.

Filipino grandmaster Eugene Torre, an old friend, said Fischer had been planning
to seek asylum in Switzerland and was caught off guard by the arrest.

Now, the man for whom chess was everything and once said, "Chess is life," is a
pawn in an international match.

For once, the next move isn't Bobby Fischer's.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

Bobby Fischer

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      August 7, 2004 Saturday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE TO HIT THE WEB SOON

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 162 words


The tradition of -standing in long lines to wait for help at the Twin Cities'
immigration office soon may end.

InfoPass, an Internet-based system that allows online scheduling of appointments
with immigration -officers, will debut here Sept. 8.

The new system already has reduced lines in Miami, Los Angeles and Dallas,
Eduardo Aguirre Jr., director of U.S. -Citizenship and -Immigration Services,
said Friday during a conference call from Washington, D.C.

To access the new -system, go to www. uscis.gov and click on the InfoPass link.
Pick a language, follow prompts to enter basic information and select an
appointment time and date. Print the electronic notice and take it to the
appointment.

The St. Paul district office, which serves Minnesota and the Dakotas, is at 2901
Metro Drive, Suite 100, in Bloomington. Officials are working to make InfoPass
accessible through a kiosk at the office, but it probably won't be ready when
the -system launches.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 11, 2004 Wednesday WISCONSIN EDITION

IMMIGRANT EXPECTED TO BE SENT TO IRAQ IS SWORN IN AS U.S. CITIZEN

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 281 words


MILWAUKEE -- An immigrant who expects to be sent to Iraq soon as a lance
corporal in the U.S. Marines, has been sworn in as a citizen of the United
States.

The move for Tsering Phuntsok, 22, took place Monday in a ceremony that Rep.
Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., helped arrange.

"It means a lot to finally get my citizenship," said Phuntsok, who drove to the
city with his father, Dorjee Lendey, 44, from the family's home in Madison.

Phuntsok had just arrived home during the weekend after completing basic
training at Camp Pendleton, Calif.

Lendey, a Tibetan who grew up in India, immigrated to the United States in 1992,
then later brought his wife and four children. He and most of the family became
U.S. citizens, but not Tsering Phuntsok.

At first it was a problem with his son's fingerprints and then one thing or
another, Lendey said. There were phone calls, trips to the immigration office in
Milwaukee, and extensive paperwork that never seemed to be just right until
Baldwin's intervention.

Phuntsok was 15 when he arrived in Madison, and he attended Madison Memorial
High School.

"He has a lot of energy and said he wanted to join the Marines," his father
said. "I said, 'No. Go to college for a year, and in one year if you still want
to join, then it's OK.' "

Phuntsok went to Madison Area Technical College, then joined the Marine
Reserves.

"I am from Tibet, and we lost my country to the communist Chinese long before I
was born," Lendey said. "Becoming a citizen gives a sense of pride and
belonging.

"It's important to have a country to call your own. If something happens to him
over there, God forbid, we don't want him dying without a country."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Flores

In an private ceremony, United States marine Tsering Phuntsok, 22, right,
formerly of Tibet, is sworn in as a U.S. citizen by Antonio Lopez, acting
officer in charge, at the Department of Immigration on Monday in Milwaukee.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 7, 2004 Tuesday CITY EDITION

INTERNATIONAL ACADEMY SPREADS ITS WINGS
SCHOOL ADDS SPACE, FACILITIES AS IMMIGRANT ENROLLMENT RISES

BYLINE: JOHN WELBES Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 977 words


Rose Santos isn't surprised her students want to organize a real soccer team for
their school.

While many students at St. Paul's International Academy-LEAP program already
play soccer together informally, the atmosphere at their games isn't exactly
casual.

"When they play it's like they're playing for the World Cup," said Santos, the
school's principal.

As the St. Paul public schools open for the first day of school today, the
International Academy will occupy all of the former Wilson Junior High. The
academy's 250 students include immigrants ages 16 to 20, all relatively new to
the United States and still learning English. This year, those students also
will enjoy the addition of a newly built gymnasium and media center.

The heavy interest in soccer at the school is no wonder, considering the global
mix of students, many from countries where "football" is the sport of choice.
Forty-five countries are represented at the school.

The International Academy is adding seventh- and eighth-graders to its high
school program as it takes over the Wilson building. The academy's enrollment
also is expected to expand this year with new arrivals from Hmong refugee camps
in Thailand.

Enrollment trends "all depend on what's going on in the world," Santos said.
"The state of Minnesota has always been a welcoming state, so they seem to
gravitate to us."

The past two weeks have been busy for Lee Yang, the school's intake coordinator.
He's met with 28 new students in that time, 24 of whom recently arrived from the
Hmong camps in Thailand. Though in their teens, some of the new students have
never attended school of any sort.

"I tell them to bring paper and pencil. A backpack is a good idea," Yang said,
adding that he warns them about the looming change in Minnesota's weather.

The school was formerly known as LEAP Academy, with LEAP standing for Limited
English Academic Proficiency. The program, which immerses the students in
English and doesn't teach them in their native tongue, has been around for a
decade.

Aklilu Tamirat, 18, was at the academy last week to get oriented before today's
start of school. He arrived in the United States from Ethiopia at age 14 and
needed to learn English. Though he's attended schools in Minneapolis and St.
Paul, he sees the International Academy as best suited to help him get through a
few remaining courses and help him pass Minnesota's Basic Skills Test, also
required for graduation.

Teachers at the school adjust coursework for students who arrive with varying
degrees of skill. Bronwen Lu, a science teacher, has science-based children's
books for students brand-new to the language. But she also teaches advanced
courses and showed assignments done by students still relatively new to the
language that used a wide range of science vocabulary.

"They should be pushed to excel, just like anybody," Lu said. "They have the
capacity. They're very motivated."

The new gym and media center together cost $2.4 million and were originally
intended for Wilson Junior High students, who shared the building last year with
the academy. But Wilson's enrollment was shrinking, down to 170 last year, and
those students have been moved to other schools.

The change in programs housed at Wilson brought some complaints from homeowners
near the school's location at Lafond Avenue and Albert Street in St. Paul's
Midway neighborhood. They said more of the academy's older students were driving
to school and causing parking problems.

But last year, parking needs included teachers from both Wilson Junior High and
the academy, students and about 90 construction workers. This year, more
students will be bused, the construction workers will be gone and there's a new
56-space parking lot behind the school.

Many of the neighbors have welcomed the international program, said Jun-Li Wang,
community organizer for the Hamline-Midway Coalition, a neighborhood group.
"There's still a small group of neighbors that we've been meeting with," Wang
said. She added that they're willing to wait to see how the parking situation
shapes up this fall.

John Welbes can be reached at jwelbes@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2175.

SCHOOL'S IN!

Many of Minnesota's 840,000 public school students returned last week and this
morning to start the 2004-05 school year. Here are some quick answers to
first-day questions and advice on making it a great day.

Where's the bus? Many districts have trimmed some bus service in recent years to
save money. Many kids can't get a bus unless they live more than two miles from
school. If you're not sure, check with the school this morning. Commuters may
see more kids walking today, so be alert.

Need shots? State law says kids must be immunized. Some districts have "no
shots, not school" policies. To find out what's required, go to
www.health.state.mn.us, then type "immunization basics" into the search engine.
Schools typically review immunization records at kindergarten and seventh grade.
Legal exemptions are available for parents conscientiously opposed to
vaccination.

Get some rest! Children who sleep less are twice as likely to have the school
call their parents/guardians about behavior problems than those who sleep more,
according to the National Sleep Foundation's 2004 Sleep in America poll. The
poll also found that preschoolers (3- to 5-year-olds and 6-year-olds in
kindergarten) sleep about 10.4 hours a night, while experts recommend 11 to 13
hours, while kids in first through fifth grade average 9.5 hours of sleep a
night, less than the recommended 10 to 11 hours for that age group.

School starts today in St. Paul, Anoka-Hennepin, Burnsville-Eagan-Savage, Forest
Lake, Rosemount-Apple Valley-Eagan, Roseville and Spring Lake Park. For
first-day tips, see Page 4A. For education notes across the metro, see Page 1C.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Back to School

GRAPHIC: Photo: JOE ODEN, PIONEER PRESS

Principal Rose Santos stands in the art room of the academy, which occupies all
of the former Wilson Junior High School.

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 23, 2004 Thursday ST. PAUL EDITION

TAKING A DEEPER LOOK
IMMIGRATION A NET GAIN FOR ECONOMY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Editorials; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 600 words


An article in the September issue of fedgazette, the monthly publication from
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, details the economic benefits of legal
immigration. More important, the article puts to rest the myth, often
perpetuated by nativist xenophobes, that cheap labor from abroad drives down
wages.

Part of the reason immigrants don't depress wages, the Fed argues, is that they
often hold down jobs that native-born Americans wouldn't consider doing. Case in
point: the Jennie-O Turkey Store plant in Barron, Wis.

"American kids don't want to take those jobs; they leave for the [Twin] Cities,"
said Zoltan Grossman, a geographer at the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire who
studied the Somali community in Barron. "So [Jennie-O] basically would have had
to close the plant because of a labor shortage if it wasn't for immigrants."

Furthermore, recent studies have shown that immigrants don't displace similarly
skilled native-born workers. According to David Card, an economics professor at
the University of California, Berkeley, immigration in the late 1980s reduced
the relative employment rates of natives in low-skilled occupations by no more
than 3 percent, even in major immigrant cities like Miami and Los Angeles.

And when immigrants go head to head with native-born workers in semiskilled
assembly jobs, they lose. That's primarily because of their limited work
experience and poor command of English. So instead of complaining about
immigrant labor, native-born workers should focus on upgrading their job skills,
said Bruce Corrie, an economist at Concordia University.

And even if immigrants do replace native-born workers to a small degree, studies
indicated that they create more jobs -- through economic expansion and spillover
-- than they fill.

"A 2000 study commissioned by the Region Nine Economic Development Commission in
Mankato, Minn., estimated that about 2,600 Latino workers (not all of them
immigrants) in south-central Minnesota supported 3,770 jobs held by non-Latinos
in the region," the Fed reported. "When increased consumer demand was factored
in, Latinos working primarily in food processing and packaging firms generated
an additional 4,100 jobs in the nine-county region."

More importantly, many immigrants don't stay in the lower echelons of the work
force for very long. According to the Fed, "the Economic Census of 1997 counted
18,440 minority-owned, non-American Indian firms with total sales of $3.8
billion in Minnesota and the Dakotas. That's more than double the number of
minority-owned businesses and total revenue figures reported five years
earlier."

Indeed, a 2002 Fed survey of 121 Hmong businesses in the Twin Cities found that
they were more willing to take higher risks in using their personal savings to
invest in startups than white, native-born business owners.

"A lot of immigrants are using entrepreneurship as their first entry point into
American life, integrating [into society] and achieving mobility through
entrepreneurship," said Concordia's Corrie.

It's ironic to us that legal immigrants, primarily Latinos and Asians, are
coming under fire from a small group of nativists who themselves can trace their
origins back no more than two or three generations. America has thrived for 200
years as a nation of immigrants; it will continue to do so in the 21st century.

USEFUL LINKS

fedgazette

www.minneapolisfed.org/pubs/fedgaz

U.S. Census

www.census.gov

Hispanic Advocacy and Community Empowerment through Research

www.hacer-mn.org

Hmong American Partnership

www.hmong.org

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 336 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 23, 2004 Thursday ST. PAUL EDITION

VIEWS ON NEWEST CITIZENS DIVIDED
IMMIGRANTS HELP BOOST ECONOMY BUT ARE A DRAIN OVERALL, MINNESOTANS SAY

BYLINE: TODD NELSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 845 words


Minnesotans believe that immigrants help the economy but also think helping them
costs more than they contribute, according to a new poll that reveals mixed
feelings about immigration in Minnesota.

Almost half -- 49 percent -- of those contacted in a new Pioneer Press/Minnesota
Public Radio poll said immigrants help the economy by providing labor for jobs
that would go unfilled.

But by a narrow margin, 42 percent to 37 percent, Minnesotans said the cost of
helping immigrants begin their new life outweighs their economic, social and
other contributions.

The results appear to challenge the state's traditional acceptance of newcomers,
said Bruce Corrie, an economist at Concordia University in St. Paul who is from
India. The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the economic downturn may explain why
some native-born Minnesotans are wary of immigrants, Corrie said.

The number of foreign-born residents in Minnesota grew 130 percent in the 1990s,
to more than 260,000 of the state's 5 million people. People from Asia, Africa
and Latin America came in numbers not seen since the great wave of European
immigration peaked in the early years of the 20th century.

Recent data belie the idea that immigrants are only a drag on the Minnesota
economy.

An article in this month's issue of fedgazette, published by the Federal Reserve
Bank of Minneapolis, concluded that immigration probably brings economic
benefits to the region, including native-born workers. Corrie has estimated that
Mexican-American businesses in the state post more than $200 million in annual
sales and Hmong businesses more than $100 million.

"(Immigrants bore the brunt of) that basic fear that emerged," Corrie said in an
interview. "Most people when they step back would realize that immigrants were
not the cause of that fear, that the cause was larger forces around them. But
they have a target in front of them."

Corrie said he was pleasantly surprised the poll found what he saw as "quite a
big segment of Minnesota still having that good positive view of immigrants."

Paul Westrum, of Albert Lea, founder of the Minnesota Coalition for Immigration
Reduction, said he would have expected the poll to pick up greater levels of
anti-immigrant feelings.

"It sounds to me like the people that answered this poll were loaded on the side
of immigration or were not educated on the issue," Westrum said.

The families of 55 percent of respondents have been in this country for three
generations of more, while 2 percent of respondents were new immigrants.

The poll found that more than a third of Minnesotans think that today's
immigrants are not adapting as quickly as past immigrants to American life and
culture and that they are not learning English as quickly. The share of those
who think immigrants get too much government assistance was 44 percent, while 35
percent think immigrants get the right amount of help.

One of those contacted in the poll, Al Matche of St. Paul, home to the country's
largest population of Hmong immigrants and expected destination of 5,000
resettling Hmong refugees, said he sided with those who believed the costs of
immigration outweigh the benefits.

"We don't have sufficient jobs in this area to accommodate them," said Matche,
80, a retired accountant. Without work, he said, immigrants have less reason and
opportunity to adapt to American life and learn English.

Mary Lou Mulligan, of Luverne, said Latino and other immigrants who have come to
southwestern Minnesota to take food-processing jobs have made a positive
contribution.

"My grandfather came to this country from Belgium, and I think what he
contributed was more than what he took," said Mulligan, 63, a retired clerical
worker. "I think it will turn out the same way for the Hmong in St. Paul and the
Hispanics who have come to work in our meat plants out here. They all will turn
out just as wonderful as we did."

Immigration adds to the state's vitality, said Scott Hollander, 40, a teacher at
a private high school in Minneapolis.

"I have a general belief that a dynamic culture is economically healthy, and
immigration contributes to that," Hollander said. "It mixes up the economy and
the city and remakes them, and I think that's healthy."

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5575.

ABOUT THE POLL

This poll of Minnesota voters was conducted for the St. Paul Pioneer Press and
Minnesota Public Radio from Sept. 11 to 14. The polling was done by telephone by
Mason-Dixon Polling & Research Inc. of Washington, D.C.

The survey included 625 voters in Minnesota chosen through a random selection of
telephone numbers.

In theory, 19 times out of 20, a sampling of that size should yield results
differing by no more than 4 percentage points in either direction from the
responses that would be received by polling the entire population.

The error margin is greater for smaller groups. Errors also can be introduced by
the wording of questions and other factors.

[SEE MICROFILM FOR CHARTS OF POLL RESULTS]

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PIONEER PRESS: MPR POLL IMMIGRATION

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved
