
                               1 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday

Editorial: Wrong way to police immigration

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Opinion

LENGTH: 479 words


The Department of Homeland Security is about to crack down on businesses that
employ undocumented workers. The result will likely be a massive firing of
illegal immigrants that will disrupt farms and service industries in California
and undermine the stability of immigrant neighborhoods.

Congress and President Bush bear the blame for a continued failure to pass
comprehensive immigration reforms. But Homeland Security shouldn't be setting
immigration policy on its own instead.

The department's new regulations will require businesses to straighten out
discrepancies in tax documents that workers provide. Companies that can't square
the information will have to either dismiss workers or face stiff fines of up to
$10,000.

An estimated 5 million to 7 million workers are undocumented. They represent 5
percent of America's overall workforce but as high as 70 percent of agricultural
workers. Many of them supply fake Social Security numbers to get jobs.

Every year the Social Security Administration sends out "no-match letters" to
workers and eventually to employers pointing out inconsistencies between
employees' names and their tax ID numbers. There have been no consequences to
ignoring them, so that's what businesses largely have done for the past 20
years.

Homeland Security is now proposing stiff penalties to prod employers to act. It
plans to mail about 140,000 notifications to companies with at least 10
discrepancies.

The department drew up the regulations last year but put off implementing them
while Congress considered a sweeping immigration bill supported by President
Bush. It would have allowed illegal immigrants to obtain work permits, and,
under the most promising proposal, provided permanent residency, in exchange for
back taxes, fines and background checks. Now that the bill has died, the
department is prematurely pressing ahead. Workplace raids, arrests of the
undocumented, and dismissals should not become de facto federal policy.

The consequences will be severe. Industries dependent on immigrant workers, like
restaurants, construction and farms, may face labor shortages. Fired workers
will be driven into the underground economy. Companies worried about being
potentially liable for firings based on bad information may shy away from hiring
even legal immigrants.

And it's not just undocumented workers who will be dragged into the maw. Social
Security estimates that there are inconsistencies with the records of 13 million
American citizens, due to clerical errors, name changes and spelling mistakes.
They too may face dismissal if they can't straighten out their records.

Employers do have a responsibility to verify workers' identities. Laws should be
followed. But an enforcement-only approach is no substitute for balanced policy.
Business and immigration-rights groups should unite to put immigration reform
back on Congress' agenda.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday

Editorial: Congress must reform H-1B, farm visa limits

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Opinion

LENGTH: 348 words


Now that Congress is back to work, it's time for lawmakers to earn their
paychecks by taking another crack at immigration reform.

A comprehensive immigration reform package is out of the question after a hearty
attempt failed miserably in the Senate in June. Congress and President Bush
share the blame.

But there are two pressing areas of reform - more visas for farmworkers and for
skilled workers - that Congress should make progress on in the near future,
instead of waiting for a new administration in 2009.

With stepped-up enforcement on employers, government raids on work sites that
use undocumented workers, increasing shortages of farmworkers and the recent
deportation of a high-profile activist, it is time to pass Sen. Dianne
Feinstein's "AgJobs" legislation.

The legislation would ease the severe farmworker shortage by granting more
temporary work permits. It also would allow undocumented farmworkers who have a
long work history in the United States to apply for legal residency after paying
a fine and proving that they had not been convicted of a serious crime.

California is the single largest agriculture state in the nation with more than
$34 billion in annual revenue and approximately 76,500 farms. According to
Feinstein, approximately 1 million undocumented workers harvest the crops in
California each year, with as much as 90 percent of the farm labor payroll made
up by undocumented workers. In 2006, growers in California reported that their
harvesting crews were down by as much as 20 percent.

The other area Congress must address is the H-1B visa limit for skilled workers.

It is imperative that U.S. companies be able to attract the brightest minds in
the world. But this year's annual cap of 65,000 temporary visas was gobbled up
in two days. A good place to start, as we've noted before, would be to double
the number of H-1B visas.

There is support in Congress for farm-labor and skilled-worker reforms. But any
progress in these areas was cut off when they were part of the comprehensive
immigration package.

Now is the time for Congress to reform what it can.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday

Takahashi: We need more Andy Groves, Vinod Khoslas - not fewer

BYLINE: By Dean Takahashi Mercury News

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Columnists; Business; Technology

LENGTH: 965 words


Seth Sternberg feels like he won the lottery. The chief executive officer of Web
instant messenger firm Meebo in Palo Alto has spent many hours coming up to
speed on the H-1B visa program. In April, he and his immigration law consultants
were finally able to secure H-1B visas for two employees in his 16-person firm.

But for every lucky winner, there are a lot of losers in the current immigration
rules that govern how companies can bring temporary workers into the United
States to do highly skilled work. The current H-1B visa system is ridiculous and
badly needs reform. The government should allow more technology geniuses into
the country so that Silicon Valley and the nation can maintain leadership in
technology.

The clearest sign of a dysfunctional H-1B system: The federal government
received more than 130,000 applications in a single day for the 65,000 H-1B visa
slots available for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. And the 65,000 lucky ones
can't start work until Oct. 1.

We've heard for years that immigration reform is a priority in Washington, but
only last week was there some progress. A number of H-1B bills have been
introduced and the congressional leadership reached a deal last week with
President Bush as part of a larger, controversial immigration package. The bills
seek to nearly double the number of annual grants of H-1B visas, which are good
for six years. The cap has been stuck at 65,000 for four years.

Immigration is a tough issue because it encompasses everything from national
security to whether undocumented workers are taking jobs away from unemployed
Americans. Nobody wants to address a piece of the problem without addressing the
whole thing. The consequence for the U.S. tech industry has been a bureaucratic
morass that keeps it from adapting to the realities of globalization.

The tech industry's main concern is the more narrow issue of how to deal with
the smaller group of immigrants whose skills are so scarce that they can do jobs
for which there aren't enough similarly qualified U.S. citizens.

Sternberg is on the front line of this problem. His company, Meebo, which makes
software that enables consumers to look at their instant messages no matter
where they are, often has to make 100 screening phone calls just to find a
candidate worth hiring. He has 13 open positions and has hired only two people
recently. Last year, Sternberg hired a foreign worker but, without a visa, that
worker had to work outside the country.

Good candidates are rare. Two-thirds of those getting electrical engineering
doctorates in the United States are foreign nationals. Sternberg believes he
should be able to hire candidates who are best qualified, regardless of where
they live.

"It's incredible that, as the CEO of a company, I have had to become intimately
familiar with the details of immigration law," Sternberg said.

CEOs of big companies, such as Mike Splinter at Applied Materials, say that
every person who gets a doctorate ought to be entitled to a green card.
Executives like Splinter and other tech leaders have joined together in lobbying
groups such as "CompeteAmerica."

But Sternberg says that leaves out the very bright foreign students who have
lesser degrees but are brilliant. The proposal would ignore folks, like Bill
Gates, who are technically smart but drop out of college.

Sternberg is willing to pay H-1B hires as much as equally qualified U.S.
workers. That makes the H-1B hires more expensive due to relocation expenses and
the costs of the lawyers needed to bring them here.

Beyond fixing the H-1B program, various tech lobby groups say the government
should expand the number of training visas it gives to recent foreign graduates,
give priority to spouses of H-1B visa holders, and expedite the processing of
highly skilled immigrants applying for permanent residency. Those "green card"
applicants have historically been at a disadvantage compared with those seeking
family reunification. If the government were better at processing the green
cards for skilled workers, companies wouldn't have to resort to H-1Bs, says
Jenifer Verdery, director of workforce policy at Intel.

Some critics say H-1B hires displace American workers. At current levels, H-1B
visa holders are 0.07 percent of the American workforce, and 57 percent of them
have master's degrees or higher, according to the National Foundation for
American Policy, a non-profit research group that favors expanding the H-1B
program.

Some of the bills before Congress require companies to show that they have made
good-faith efforts to hire Americans. And Sternberg says the government can use
the IRS returns of H-1B visa recipients and other company employees to determine
if the companies are underpaying the immigrants.

"It's critical that the government ensure that no one is cheating the system,"
Sternberg said.

There are other things to criticize about the program, such as the high number
of visas that wrongly go to overseas outsourcing firms. Overall, enforcement
actions are on the decline and the outsourcing problem has been overblown,
according to the NFAP. But if the U.S. can't produce enough engineers and we
don't encourage the most talented tech workers to come to this country, it will
be at a disadvantage to other nations.

"America benefits by bringing talented people here who can make the country more
competitive and create jobs for Americans," Sternberg says. "The more we have
talented people, the better off our economy is."

If today's immigration laws were in effect decades ago, Silicon Valley probably
wouldn't have the benefit of immigrants such as Intel's Andy Grove or venture
capitalist Vinod Khosla. Would you say "no thanks" to them if they showed up on
your doorstep?

Contact Dean Takahashi at dtakahashi@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5739.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 4, 2007 Monday

Editorial: `Point system' for allocating green cards misses mark

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Opinion

LENGTH: 521 words


In their attempt to craft a "grand compromise" on immigration reform, the
negotiators who crafted the bill being debated in the U.S. Senate struck many
delicate balances.

They would establish a pathway to legalization for undocumented immigrants but
require them to wait a long time and pay stiff fines. They propose to allow
temporary workers into the country but force them to leave every two years. They
want to double the number of H-1B visas for skilled foreign workers but require
employers to make more efforts to hire qualified Americans.

Although none of those provisions is perfect, they are worth sending to the
House for further refinement.

Unfortunately, the bill's proposed "point system" for allocating permanent
residency visas - commonly known as green cards - is fatally flawed. Senators
should reject it. Instead, they should expand the total number of green cards
for all categories of immigrants or craft some other more equitable allocation
system.

Under existing law, most green-card applicants fall into two groups: family
members of current U.S. residents and workers with advanced degrees, high skills
or other extraordinary talents. Sponsorship - by family members or employers -
counts for a lot, as does time waiting in line.

The existing system's biggest problem is the small number of visas handed out in
both categories. Immigrants can wait a decade or more to get a visa.

The Senate could have taken the simple path of expanding the number of green
cards in both categories.

Instead, the negotiators started from scratch and created a complicated
100-point system of ranking that lumps everyone together and favors people with
advanced education, even if they don't have a job, while virtually eliminating
the significance of family ties. The law doesn't give officials discretion to
admit brilliant people who don't meet traditional criteria, such as top athletes
or brilliant technologists.

To top it all off, the bill reduces the total number of green cards handed out
each year. Although extra visas would be handed out for a few years to clear
current backlogs, it's obvious that a new backlog would be quickly created.

This Rube Goldberg mess serves no one - not technology companies who can't find
enough U.S. engineers, not hospitals and nursing homes seeking to fill dire
labor shortages, not longtime residents seeking to bring in their adult
children, parents or siblings.

It would make the most sense to scrap the point system entirely and go back to
some system of individual categories of immigrants.

But if that's not politically tenable in the Senate, lawmakers should adopt an
amendment sponsored by Sens. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., and John Cornyn, R-Texas,
that would solve part of the problem. The provision, which is supported by the
tech industry, would create an extra category of 140,000 employer-sponsored
visas per year. It also would expand the number of H-1B visas for workers with
advanced degrees.

With a similar adjustment to quotas for close relatives of current residents,
the Senate could ensure that our future immigration system strengthens both the
economy and families.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

Chung: Valley businesses would feel pinch of cutback in green cards

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Local; News

LENGTH: 612 words


Srinivas Yerra sits outside the Starbucks at Westgate Shopping Center,
explaining to me his options, as the Senate undertakes debate on the massive
immigration reform bill. Buried in the nearly 400-page document may be his fate.

The current system, for him, is not working well. The provisions in the proposed
bill, however, could mean that after nine years here, his green card application
is for naught.

"Every week or month I wonder if I should just pack my bags and go," said Yerra,
31, a baby-faced software engineer from the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh,
where information technology and biotech is starting to rise alongside the
state's agricultural base. "The last six months have been like that."

Yerra is one of about 500,000 legal immigrants, many H-1B visa holders, mired in
backlogs at various points of the three-part green card application process.
Amid the heat of the immigration reform debate, a group of frustrated, highly
educated workers are advocating on their own behalf. Many stand to lose if
reform is not smartly crafted. So does American competitiveness.

Furloughing talent

From a group of seven in December 2005, Immigration Voice - a non-profit
organization for high-skilled foreign workers - has grown to more than 12,000
across the country. They have been navigating the legislative and political
minefield hoping to clear the backlogs and win some relief.

In Silicon Valley, they are primarily Indian and Chinese engineers, but they are
also doctors, architects, financial professionals and former CEOs, said Pratik
Dakwala, a local Immigration Voice leader and a San Jose business consultant.

Yerra is an applications software engineer, building the kind of software for
data centers that nearly every company needs, from Barnes & Noble to eBay.

His work has taken him from Chicago to Boston to San Jose. But each time he
moved, he had to start the green card application over again. The peculiarities
of the process, involving one's employer, the U.S. Labor department and the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service, mean H-1B visa holders must stay frozen in
position for their application to stay alive.

They may not take a promotion nor go to a new company without starting over. The
wait can take up to eight years because of the backlog in green cards available
to people who have met the requirements. Many are stuck in the labor
department's optimistically named "Backlog Elimination Center." Spouses, like
Yerra's doctor wife, cannot work until he has his green card.

Choosing America

The backlogs occur because green cards are capped at 140,000 annually for the
employment-based visa category. The current proposal would cap it at 90,000,
then simply disallow some backlogged applications like Yerra's. Immigration
Voice hopes to stop this, and tweak the current law, to make the green card
slots allocated by the country flexible and allow people to keep their
applications in play, even with job changes.

"Unfortunately, America's immigration policies are driving away the world's best
and brightest precisely when we need them most," Bill Gates told a Senate
committee in March.

Yerra went job hunting in India in 2002, and concluded there were many things he
could learn better here. Like others, he hopes to start a company in America -
and leverage his bi-cultural, multi-lingual abilities to sell globally, perhaps
to India.

Maybe Congress can take away Yerra's hopes for his green card - and all he may
contribute to our economy. But it won't take away what he has learned. That's
portable, all the way to India.

Is that what we really want?

See www.immigrationvoice.org. Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or
(408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 22, 2007 Friday

Guest-worker programs damage everyone involved

BYLINE: By Neil Struthers and Josue Garcia

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 522 words


Although our nation's immigration policy is unquestionably broken, the
legislation pending before the Senate does not fix the problem. In fact, its
passage will exacerbate the unconscionable exploitation of immigrant workers in
construction and other industries, while accelerating erosion of U.S. workers'
living standards.

Especially troubling is the guest-worker program this legislation would
establish - an update of the discredited bracero program, without any credible
wage floor protections for these workers.

Right now, those of us who work in the building and construction industry see
how these workers are exploited and abused by unscrupulous contractors on a
daily basis - and how this situation is driving down wages and living standards
for all construction workers, native and foreign-born. This Senate bill would
only institutionalize that exploitation and create a two-tier society in which
the working and middle class of this country will experience additional downward
pressure on wages as a result of employers seeking out the cheapest labor.

Through free-trade agreements and globalization, most of the manufacturing jobs
in this country have been lost through outsourcing. The only manufacturing in
this country that can't be outsourced - construction - is about to fall victim
to "insourcing" (the importation of cheap and employer-regulated labor from
other countries) through this legislation.

Why would we do this? This is simply unacceptable.

We believe it is in the best interests of our nation and its workers that
undocumented workers currently in this country are accounted for in the economy
through a process that gives them rights and protection from employers who would
otherwise make them indentured servants, just as they were under the bracero
program. Anything short of this will guarantee that wages for construction
workers will drop to the point that construction labor is thought of the same
way we currently think of agricultural labor.

Yes, we think there should be border control. So, too, we need to vigorously and
fairly enforce federal and state labor and employment laws. We have heard a
great deal about "illegal aliens." We believe no person is illegal but that
today's situation is driven by illegal employment practices. Sanctions against
employers who make money exploiting immigrant workers have been meaningless, and
in recent years those same sanctions have been used more to victimize workers
who stand up for their rights than to penalize employers.

We hope the Senate will slow down in its race to "get something passed" on this
issue, take a breath and examine the effects this misguided legislation will
have on those of us who are trying to maintain a decent life for our families.

At the very least, those in Washington should focus on how we move displaced
workers and youth into careers in construction. There is a lot of effort and
money going into creating good jobs within the construction industry. Combine
that with the assimilation into the workforce of those already in this country
working without documentation, and there will be no need for any guest-worker
program.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday

Editorial: California counting on visas for tech workers, farmworkers

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Opinion

LENGTH: 476 words


The Senate's failure to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill last month
was disappointing. But two specific reforms that were part of that bill - more
visas for agricultural workers and for skilled workers - are vital to the
California and national economy. Congress needs to pass them as separate
legislation.

Farmers across the country already are having trouble finding enough migrant
workers to pick their crops. Lettuce has been left rotting in the fields of
Southern California's Imperial Valley, and Colorado farmers are so desperate for
labor that they're using prison inmates.

The "AgJobs" immigration legislation championed by Sens. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif., and Larry Craig, R-Idaho, would address a persistent shortage of
farmworkers by granting more temporary work permits to migrant laborers crossing
the border. It also would allow undocumented farmworkers who have a long work
history in the United States to apply for legal residency.

Immigrants make up the vast majority of the farm workforce, and right now, most
of them are here illegally. Creating more work permits will not only help our
huge agriculture industry, it also will help protect workers from exploitation,
including being paid illegally low wages. That would benefit all farmworkers.

Congress must also allow more skilled immigrants to fill jobs in high-demand
fields like technology and nursing.

The current annual cap of 65,000 temporary H-1B visas for skilled workers is far
too small. This year's quota was used up after just two days of applications.
It's also too difficult for skilled workers to get a "green card," or permanent
residency, because the current system favors family reunification over work
skills.

Congress needs to increase the number of green cards for skilled workers, double
the number of H-1B visas and allow foreign graduate students who earn master's
or doctorate degrees in this country to stay here and work. Unlike K-12, our
higher-education system is still among the finest in the world, and we ought to
reap the benefits.

Any expansion of skilled-labor visas needs to be tempered with tighter controls
on employers and more enforcement staff for the Department of Labor to make sure
that American workers have a first, fair shot at tech-sector jobs. The Senate
has gathered compelling evidence of abuse by some employers, especially
outsourcing companies that use H-1B and L-1 visas for most of their U.S.
workforce with the intent of eventually moving those jobs offshore.

The farm-labor and skilled-worker proposals have been discussed in Congress for
several years and have substantial support. Passage was held up when it seemed
possible to pass a comprehensive bill.

With those prospects shattered, Congress should pick up the pieces and pass what
it can. Some reforms just can't wait for a new president and a new Congress to
try again.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

U.S. fresh food industry depends on foreign workers

BYLINE: By Tom Nassif

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 710 words


Last month, the Senate failed to muster the political courage to pass a
comprehensive immigration reform bill that would have done much to fix our
broken immigration system. One might assume that means we're back to the status
quo. That, however, would be a dangerous assumption for California's farmers and
American consumers in general to make.

The fresh produce industry in California and throughout the United States is in
crisis. The fact is, we don't have enough workers in this country to harvest our
food. Americans don't want to be farmworkers, and they aren't raising their
children to be farmworkers. Farmworkers don't even raise their children to be
farmworkers. As a result, farmers around the country are facing a critical and
pervasive shortage of labor. In some areas, farmers are experiencing labor
shortages of up to 30 percent.

Our industry, as well as farmworker advocates, Democrats and Republicans alike,
support legislation known as AgJOBS. This bill, which was a part of the Senate's
"grand bargain," allows our most trusted and experienced workers, those who have
worked for years in agriculture, who remain in agriculture for three to five
more years, to stay in the country and earn legalization. It also includes a
temporary guest worker program that logically matches willing farmers with
willing foreign farmworkers, when there are insufficient domestic workers to
meet the need. They would work and then return home. If comprehensive
immigration reform was too large a lift for the Senate, AgJOBS provides the
perfect opportunity for the Congress to make progress on this critically
important issue.

If America's farmers can't be assured of access to a legal, steady and reliable
workforce to harvest their crops, they will have no choice but to move their
operations to other countries. It is already happening.

In 1995, U.S. exports of vegetables, fruits and nuts exceeded imports of those
commodities by $600 million. America now imports more produce than we export. In
2006, the U.S. balance of trade in fresh produce fell to a deficit of more than
$2.7 billion. Over the past 11 years, the U.S. agricultural balance of trade
fell by an average of $300 million per year.

Our economy thrives on our domestic agricultural industry. It is estimated that
between $5 billion and $9 billion per year could be lost if agriculture cannot
meet its demand for labor. There is no question that foreign workers are going
to pick our crops. The question is: Do we want to import our labor to harvest
and process our food here in the United States, or do we want to import our food
from foreign countries?

Since 1990, the balance of trade in vegetables, fruits and nuts with Mexico has
fallen from a deficit of just less than $1 billion to a deficit of about $3.5
billion in 2006 - an average yearly loss of nearly $150 million. Today, nearly
two-thirds of our imported vegetables come from Mexico.

Food imports are coming from other developing nations as well. China is eager,
and has the capacity, to fill the void left by the exodus of domestic producers.
China is under international scrutiny for exporting tainted and toxic
toothpaste, dog food, juice, fish and medicine. The Food and Drug Administration
has rejected 1,901 shipments of food or cosmetics from China during the past 12
months. Do we really want to be importing produce from China and other
developing countries where food safety standards are virtually non-existent?
Remember, only 1 percent of the imported food is inspected by the U.S.
government. How safe is the other 99 percent?

While no product grown outdoors is guaranteed to be safe 100 percent of the
time, American farmers produce the safest, healthiest, and highest quality fresh
produce in the world. Our families deserve as much, but as with the Gold Rush of
1849, California's great bounty is destined to become a historical footnote if
Congress' inaction continues.

Without AgJOBS, we risk becoming dependent on foreign countries for our food.
Much like our dependency on foreign oil, our potential dependency on foreign
food sources poses a real threat to this country's health and national security.

TOM NASSIF is president and CEO of the Western Growers Association. He wrote
this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday

Chung: Immigration reform still an urgent need

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Local; News

LENGTH: 600 words


Maybe it was just another demonstration in our nation's capital Tuesday.

High-skilled workers from around the country, including San Jose, met at the
Washington Monument for the time-honored American ritual of marching to the
front of the Capitol to press their cause. In this case: reforming
employment-based immigration laws.

Let's hope it's the beginning of something more: progress in one little corner
of our screwed-up immigration system. After the debacle of the big immigration
reform bill this summer, Sen. Dianne Feinstein had suggested that the only way
to fix any of it was to start piecemeal. Indeed, several independent measures
are afoot, aimed at relieving specific areas, from high-skilled workers to guest
workers to students. There's no talk of addressing the status of undocumented
immigrants, the thing that killed the big bill last June.

So if there are places we can start solving problems before Congress freezes up
in presidential election politics, why not?

"We are hoping for a clear action, rather than being left hanging in this
state," said Rahul Deshpande, a 31-year-old software engineer who came here on
an H-1B visa eight years ago.

Right now, people like Deshpande aren't looking for comprehensive reform.
They're just hoping for a more predictable timeline for people already well into
the application process but stuck in the long, uncertain state of waiting for
green cards that are available but expire because of backlogs in the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services agency. With so much uncertainty, he has
explored opportunities in Australia.

Seeing a clear way?

True, in Silicon Valley, and throughout the tech industry, we have ambivalence
toward employment-based visas. High tech employers in particular say there is a
shortage and they cannot do without them. American software engineers, some of
whom have had to train foreign replacement programmers, contend the system has
been abused, lowering wages and importing some workers who are less uniquely
skilled than advertised.

I sat in the hillside living room of an American software engineer who has seen
the ups and downs of the industry over the course of two decades. He didn't want
to be identified because he wants to continue to be employed and fears speaking
candidly, lest employers take umbrage.

Programmers' wages, which had been stagnant, rose inordinately high with the
run-up to preparing computers for the Y2K change. With the advent of aggressive
overseas hiring, wages "corrected," he acknowledged. And now they've gone down.

Investing in "us"

He doesn't fault the overseas workers in this era of globalization. Yet, he has
discouraged his very bright nephew from going into computer science because of
his own bleak outlook for earning potential in the field.

I doubt we want that, either.

Groups like Immigration Voice, which began almost two years ago, and Legal
Immigrant Association, which sprang up in recent months, have taken pains to
emphasize their members' legal status and to appeal to Americans' sense of
fairness.

Fix the abuses, and fix the backlogs that make a mockery of the current laws,
they say.

Deshpande's 6-month-old daughter is the reason he hopes for a long-term future
in the United States. He likes the broader sense of community expressed, for
example, by things we take for granted, such as a beach cleanup or a
neighborhood watch. "Everyone feels responsible here," he said. "Ultimately, we
take responsibility for our own environment here."

A shared sense of community: That's the way we'd all like to live.

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday

Chung: Piecemeal immigration reform a start

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Local; News

LENGTH: 600 words


Maybe it was just another demonstration in our nation's capital Tuesday.

High-skilled workers from around the country, including San Jose, met at the
Washington Monument for the time-honored American ritual of marching to the
front of the Capitol to press their cause. In this case: reforming
employment-based immigration laws.

Let's hope it's the beginning of something more: progress in one little corner
of our screwed-up immigration system. After the debacle of the big immigration
reform bill this summer, Sen. Dianne Feinstein had suggested that the only way
to fix any of it was to start piecemeal. Indeed, several independent measures
are afoot, aimed at relieving specific areas, from high-skilled workers to guest
workers to students. There's no talk of addressing the status of undocumented
immigrants, the thing that killed the big bill in June.

So if there are places we can start solving problems before Congress freezes up
in presidential election politics, why not?

"We are hoping for a clear action, rather than being left hanging in this
state," said Rahul Deshpande, a 31-year-old software engineer who came here on
an H-1B visa eight years ago.

Right now, people like Deshpande aren't looking for comprehensive reform.
They're just hoping for a more predictable timeline for people already well into
the application process but stuck in the long, uncertain state of waiting for
green cards that are available but expire because of backlogs in the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services agency. With so much uncertainty, he has
explored opportunities in Australia.

Seeing a clear way?

True, in Silicon Valley, and throughout the tech industry, we have ambivalence
toward employment-based visas. High-tech employers in particular say there is a
shortage and they cannot do without them. American software engineers, some of
whom have had to train foreign replacement programmers, contend the system has
been abused, lowering wages and importing some workers who are less uniquely
skilled than advertised.

I sat in the hillside living room of an American software engineer who has seen
the ups and downs of the industry over the course of two decades. He didn't want
to be identified because he wants to continue to be employed and fears speaking
candidly, lest employers take umbrage.

Programmers' wages, which had been stagnant, rose inordinately high with the
run-up to preparing computers for the Y2K change. With the advent of aggressive
overseas hiring, wages "corrected," he acknowledged. And now they've gone down.

Investing in 'us'

He doesn't fault the overseas workers in this era of globalization. Yet, he has
discouraged his very bright nephew from going into computer science because of
his own bleak outlook for earning potential in the field.

I doubt we want that, either.

Groups like Immigration Voice, which began almost two years ago, and Legal
Immigrant Association, which sprang up in recent months, have taken pains to
emphasize their members' legal status and to appeal to Americans' sense of
fairness.

Fix the abuses, and fix the backlogs that make a mockery of the current laws,
they say.

Deshpande's 6-month-old daughter is the reason he hopes for a long-term future
in the United States. He likes the broader sense of community expressed, for
example, by things we take for granted, such as a beach cleanup or a
neighborhood watch. "Everyone feels responsible here," he said. "Ultimately, we
take responsibility for our own environment here."

A shared sense of community: That's the way we'd all like to live.

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday

RSS feed

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Business

LENGTH: 804 words


Vindu's View from the Valley

Posted Monday, Aug. 13, by Vindu Goel:

Last week, the administration announced a plan to boost enforcement of existing
immigration laws. The most important initiative is a long-overdue crackdown on
employers who hire undocumented workers. Right now, employers can turn a blind
eye to the fake identity documents that workers present when they are hired. In
fact, it doesn't pay to ask questions. To ensure access to a steady supply of
cheap labor, you really don't want to weed out illegal workers. More enforcement
will be a good thing. If crops rot in the field and prices for produce go up, if
restaurants can't find enough staff and cut back on service, if construction
firms are forced to increase their bids for the latest highway or house,
Americans will finally understand the contributions that undocumented workers
make to the economy and perhaps soften their attitudes toward them. If
undocumented workers find it harder to get a job or earn decent pay, fewer will
want to make the sacrifices required to come here. If labor-strapped employers
are forced to pay higher wages, legal U.S. workers will reap the benefits.

www.mercextra.com/blogs/vindu/

Good Morning Silicon Valley

Posted Monday, Aug. 13, by John Murrell:

When it comes to SCO and its long and fruitless battle to claim ownership of
part of the Unix code in the face of a total lack of supporting evidence, it's
hard not to think of Monty Python's Black Knight, still full of bluster while
blood shoots from the stumps of all four limbs. But now it could finally be
lights out for this knight. In SCO vs. Novell, one of the suits arising from
SCO's claims, U.S. District Judge Dale Kimball ruled late Friday that "Novell is
the owner of the Unix and UnixWare copyrights," decision that would seem to cut
whatever legs are left out from under SCO's suit claiming IBM appropriated its
intellectual property in its Linux distribution.

www.svextra.com/blogs/gmsv

Good Morning Silicon Valley

Posted Monday, Aug. 13, by John Murrell:

"Our goal is to be No. 1 or No. 2." OK, so maybe Microsoft's Kevin Johnson could
fine-tune his motivational messages for quotability, but in truth, the president
of the platforms and services division would be delighted to reach the No. 2
spot in the online ad biz, considering how far Microsoft is behind Yahoo and
market leader Google. The key to Microsoft's plan is its $6 billion acquisition
of digital marketing company aQuantive, which closed Monday. With the current
online advertising pecking order based mainly on Google's mastery of the text
ad, Microsoft is hoping that a shift toward richer forms of marketing will let
it play catch up. "The so-called long-tail advertisers that have really
propelled Google's growth for the past four years is starting to plateau," said
Andrew Frank, an analyst at research group Gartner. "The next wave of growth is
going to be big brands shifting their advertising budgets, still largely
invested in newspapers and TV, into the Internet in earnest."

www.svextra.com/blogs/gmsv

The Tech Talk Blog

Posted Saturday, Aug. 11, by Dean Takahashi:

Motorola took the wraps off its Razr 2 cell phone, the successor to the wildly
successful 2-year-old Razr phone. This one is going to have a broad launch in
the next 60 days, with every major carrier launching a slightly different
version of the phone. The first ones out in September will be from Sprint,
Verizon, Alltel and AT&T. T-Mobile will follow in October. Each phone will be
slightly different because the carriers can customize what appears on the front
display of the phone (when the clamshell design is closed). The cool part about
the front display is that it is touch-sensitive. You can press on the side
button to activate it (preventing accidental activations in your pocket) and
then use it to start different applications. It's too bad the user can't
customize the touch screen based on personal preferences.

blogs.mercurynews.com/takahashi/

The blogosphere

Valleywag

Posted Monday, Aug. 13:

"You'd think Mark Zuckerberg would be thrilled to make the cover of Newsweek.
But secretly, we bet, the CEO and founder of Facebook is fuming. Why? Because
the venerable weekly made a newbie mistake on the cover, one that Facebookers
find grating. The cover invites readers to `add' Mark as a friend. Yes, the site
does have an `add friend' dialogue - but insiders hate that usage, since it's
easily confused with MySpace's lingo. . . . Anyone who's used the site -
clearly, not Newsweek's editors - knows that the proper terminology is to
`request' or `confirm' someone as a friend. The basic gaffe tells us that the
rest of the story - a predictable rehash by writer Steven Levy, assisted by
eight (eight!) colleagues - can mostly be dismissed with the `ignore' button."

- Owen Thomas at  www.valleywag.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday

Border violence rises along with enforcement;
SMUGGLERS OF DRUGS, MIGRANTS WAGE DEADLY BATTLE OVER PROFITS

BYLINE: Michael Martinez and Oscar Avila, Chicago Tribune

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 969 words


Jeannine Pallotto often rides her favorite Arabian horse on desert trails
through stands of saguaro cactus and ironwood trees in Arizona's Ironwood Forest
National Monument -- trails crisscrossed by immigrant smuggling corridors.

Mindful of escalating violence tied to a crackdown on the border, though, she
knows when to retreat from strangers.

``You never know which ones will pull a gun on you,'' said Pallotto, 45, who has
lived next to this mountainous terrain northwest of Tucson for four years.

Illegal border crossings are declining because of tougher enforcement, posting
an overall 27 percent drop in the four months ending Jan. 31, the U.S. Border
Patrol says. All sectors on the southern border, even the nation's busiest one
based in Tucson, are showing drops in apprehensions of illegal migrants.

But the crackdown has been accompanied by deadlier tactics by the most daring
smugglers, who are now charging higher fees to bring Mexicans and others from
Latin America into the United States illegally.

In four recent cases, seven people were killed in Arizona, mostly after apparent
smuggler-on-smuggler violence; one case is also being investigated for possible
vigilantism. At Ironwood Forest earlier this month, three suspected immigrants
were killed after gunmen apparently tried to steal a rival organization's load
of illegal migrants; one alleged smuggler is now in custody.

Unintended result

These cases have received widespread attention in the nation's busiest state for
smuggling, but law enforcement authorities, politicians and humanitarians are
concerned many instances of lesser violence often go unreported.

``We have to be realistic that an unintended consequence (of the crackdown) is
that the price goes up, and the unscrupulous people who see no value in human
life are going to maximize their profit'' by trying to hijack rivals' deliveries
of illegal immigrants, said Alonzo Pena, the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement special agent in charge of Arizona.

Mexican officials said drug smugglers and illegal immigrants typically shared
the same routes, but a growing turf war among Mexican drug cartels makes them
less likely to tolerate migrants, especially as the United States beefs up
border manpower.

``These are territories that the narco-traffickers need,'' said Dario García,
who works in Nogales, Mexico, for Grupo Beta, a Mexican federal agency that
assists immigrants. ``If they see immigrants disturbing that, what are they
going to do? They take the routes away.''

The Border Patrol credited additional agents, more technology such as unmanned
planes and the National Guard deployment along the southern border for reducing
illegal immigration, but immigrant-rights advocates blamed the same measures for
``militarizing'' the border and creating the violence.

Profit for smugglers

``Militarization has created tremendous violence here,'' said Isabel García,
co-chairwoman of an immigrant-rights group called Derechos Humanos. She said she
recently secured a restraining order against someone she labeled ``a
vigilante.''

``The coyotes,'' she continued, referring to smugglers, ``absolutely love our
border policies. Now, no one can cross without a coyote.'' She said coyotes
charge from $2,000 to $4,000 a head. Immigration-enforcement policies, García
said, ``have created this tremendous profit-making industry.''

Pena counted about 65 cases from April 2005 to July 2006 in which smugglers
fought over illegal immigrants through extortion, hostage taking, or
``rip-offs'' of rivals' loads of illegal immigrants. The killings of migrants
became a political embarrassment for Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano earlier this
month when she visited Mexico, where officials called for an ``exhaustive
investigation'' into the assaults on migrants.

The Southern Poverty Law Center says Arizona is its most watched state because
of immigration-related violence and vigilante activity, said Mark Potok,
director of the center's hate-group monitoring project.

Last month in Phoenix, a suspected smuggler was fatally shot after an argument
with other smugglers in a stash house of illegal immigrants held against their
will, officials said. Also last month, two men carrying backpacks of marijuana
were killed near Tubac, Ariz., in an apparent smuggler-against-smuggler battle,
authorities said.

Increased drug smuggling forced Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, which sits
on the border southwest of Tucson, to close 90 percent of its backcountry two
months ago, said park Superintendent Kathy Billings.

``There's a big bumper marijuana crop in Mexico right now coming north,''
Billings said. ``It's hard to predict why. What our goal is, is that we don't
want to see anyone hurt.''

Public lands, which along with Native American lands make up most of the Arizona
border, are being ravaged by smuggling and government patrols, activists say.

``I think the damage has been colossal and it's directly related to an
across-the-board failure of U.S. immigration policy,'' said Daniel Patterson, a
former federal Bureau of Land Management ecologist who is now southwest director
of the whistle-blower group Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility.

In Altar, Mexico, a staging area for migrants 60 miles south of the border,
several men crowded around a peddler on a recent afternoon to read the
front-page headlines about the recent slayings in Arizona, their eventual
destination.

Fausto Pedroza, 34, had traveled three days from the southern Mexican state of
Chiapas with the hope of reaching a factory job in North Carolina. Three times,
he had boarded vans that shuttle migrants to the border town of Sasabe, Ariz.
Three times, armed robbers near Sasabe took his money and ordered him back to
Altar. Pedroza had lost about $250 total.

``I think I'm finished,'' he said. ``I need to go home.''

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday

Florida man linked to lucrative immigrant-smuggling ring

BYLINE: By Madeline Baro Diazand Georgia East South Florida Sun-Sentinel

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 186 words


FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. - A Miramar, Fla., man is accused of being a ringleader in
a multimillion-dollar smuggling operation that brought thousands of undocumented
immigrants across the United States-Mexico border, according to Arizona law
enforcement officials.

Police arrested Roman Robaina, 45, and his girlfriend, Maribel Valdivia, 42, at
their Miramar home Wednesday. The couple had been renting the house for about
three months, the property's owner said.

According to the Arizona Attorney General's Office and Phoenix police, Robaina
was the head of at least one of two related immigrant-smuggling organizations
that together brought about 300 undocumented immigrants a week - 15,000 a year -
into the United States from Mexico and made an estimated $30 million a year.

Earlier this week, the Arizona Attorney General's Office announced the
indictments of 48 people, including Robaina, accused of participating in the
smuggling rings.

The indictments, filed in Maricopa County Superior Court in Phoenix, came after
an eight-month investigation by a task force that included local, state and
federal agencies in Arizona.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 11, 2007 Thursday

Bill aims to fix farmworker shortage;
CALIF. SENATORS PUSH PATH TO CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 492 words


California's Democratic senators introduced legislation Wednesday that would put
some illegal immigrant farmworkers on a path to citizenship and revamp a
little-used agricultural guest-worker program.

Flanked by Republican colleagues, immigrant advocates and a California pear
grower, Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer presented the bill as a matter of
survival for labor-strapped farmers.

``Today, many farmers are on a precipice,'' Feinstein said. ``Whether they
survive to plant another season is determined largely on one simple question:
Will there be enough workers to bring in the harvest?''

About 1 million undocumented laborers work California's 76,500 farms, making up
about 90 percent of the state's agricultural payroll. Tougher enforcement along
the southern border and inside the country has left farmers scrambling for
enough hands at harvest time, especially since undocumented workers tend to
leave agricultural work for higher-paying jobs in the construction, restaurant
and hospitality industries.

If the labor shortage continues, the American Farm Bureau Federation estimates
that California losses would start at $3 billion a year and could climb as high
as $4.1 billion. California farms generate $34 billion in revenue a year.

Toni Scully, a Lake County pear grower, said he lost large amounts of a nearly
flawless crop last year. ``It is extremely painful for a farmer to have to see a
portion of his crop abandoned, or fruit culled out because it was harvested too
late,'' Scully said. He estimated that about 25 percent of the county crop was
lost in 2006 because of labor shortages.

Backers said the bill, which has four co-sponsors, has the votes to pass but
also said they would prefer to see it as part of a larger immigration package.

The legislation would allow illegal immigrants who have worked in agriculture
for at least 150 days over the past two years to receive a ``blue card,'' which
would entitle them to temporary legal-resident status. A limit of 1.5 million
blue cards would be distributed over five years, when the program would end.

Blue-card holders would be allowed to travel in and out of the United States. To
be eligible to apply for permanent legal-resident status, they would have to
continue doing farm work for another three years at 150 days a year, or for
another five years at 100 days a year.

The program would require applicants to pay $500, show that they are up to date
on their taxes and have not been convicted of a serious crime.

The bill also would revamp the H2-A guest-worker program to make it easier and
less expensive for growers to use and to protect them from lawsuits. With more
than 300 pages of regulations, the current program requires farmers to go
through 60 steps to get workers from overseas.

``Only 2 percent of American agriculture uses the program because it is so
difficult to use,'' said Sharon Hughes, executive vice president of the National
Council of Agricultural Employers.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday

Book lifts curtain on immigrant experience

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 346 words


As the nation debates immigration reform, one of the most difficult topics to
talk about is the great social and economic divide between the employers, who
often knowingly hire and pay undocumented workers for certain tasks, and the
workers themselves, who are chasing the American dream and hoping to send some
money home.

This gulf is the central point of the book ``Tortilla Curtain'' by T.C. Boyle,
which is the superb selection for this year's Silicon Valley Reads program. In
the novel, the lives of an affluent, liberal white Southern California couple
increasingly intersect with those of a young immigrant Mexican couple who live
in the ravine below.

The book was particularly controversial when published in 1995, a year after
Californians passed Proposition 187, which was aimed at prohibiting illegal
immigrants from receiving taxpayer-funded education, social services and
non-emergency health care. Underscoring the deeply held beliefs that made the
Proposition 187 battle so bitter, part of the story revolves around the Mexican
couple's need to avoid detection, even when one of them is injured. The tale
also looks at how the well-off couple responds to neighborhood plans to wall off
its enclave to keep out possible intruders from the ravine.

In its fifth year, Silicon Valley Reads promotes reading and literacy by trying
to get as many people as possible to read the same book and discuss it.
Beginning this week and continuing through the end of February, there will be
nearly 40 opportunities to meet with others and delve into questions raised in
the book. (For a full list of the events, go to www.siliconvalleyreads.org.)

The kick-off event for this year will be held Thursday, when the author will be
in town to discuss the book's theme and characters.

``Tortilla Curtain'' has received mixed reviews as literature, with some
complaining that the characters are stereotypes. But with immigration reform at
the top of the national agenda, the central issues in this novel about haves and
have-nots are a wonderful focal point for a community conversation.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

Free trade, an end to corruption are Mexico's tickets to prosperity

BYLINE: Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 806 words


We hear all sorts of solutions for ending illegal immigration: Build a wall.
Beef up border security. Fine employers, and create a massive guest-worker
program. Or America could insist on tamper-proof identification cards, or
detention, deportation or even amnesty for some illegal aliens -- or all of
these measures somehow combined.

But ultimately the solution lies in the hope that a Tijuana might become as
prosperous as a San Diego -- now a few miles away but a world apart.

After all, Hong Kong used to be a magnet for illegal immigrants who streamed in
from impoverished communist China. Not so much any longer. Shanghai, for
example, in two decades has become almost as wealthy as the old British colony.

East Berliners used to risk their lives to cross the wall into the West. Now
billions of dollars are being invested in restoring the eastern half of a united
Germany's capital.

Since World War II, poor workers from largely agrarian, Catholic and
authoritarian Spain flocked northward into industrialized, Protestant and more
democratic Germany and France to find work. Today, Spain's employment and growth
rates compare favorably with those of its northern neighbors.

In each of these cases, once poorer regions bordering far wealthier societies
have -- either by emulation, absorption or coercion -- radically liberalized
their economic systems. With jobs and capital almost as plentiful at home as
abroad, few wish to leave.

When Mexico follows suit, its relationship with the United States will resemble
our connection with Canada. That should be our goal. Our northern neighbor's
economy and political system are comparable to America's -- and thus the number
of Canadians arriving here is small and almost the same as the number of
Americans leaving for Canada. And by any benchmark, the weather, arable land and
coastline of Canada are not nearly as inviting as Mexico's.

Yet currently, Mexico's per capita gross domestic product is about a quarter of
the United States'. Wages in Mexico are far lower than in America. No wonder
Mexicans come here by the millions.

So how will Mexico ever achieve parity with the United States?

The Mexican government must begin selling off inefficient state enterprises,
especially in gas and oil. It should offer greater protection of property rights
and ensure title searches. Mexico must stop the old nationalist rhetoric and
welcome foreign investment, create a transparent judicial system and allow land
to be freely bought and sold.

Most important, the Mexican bureaucracy must end the endemic corruption that so
exasperates foreign investors who would otherwise bring to Mexico efficient
job-producing businesses.

There is no chance of Mexico being absorbed by its neighbor as East Germany was
by the West. America will not create a continental union as happened in Europe
and which so benefits Spain. Nor can even we count on complacent Mexican elites
to believe they can become richer by deregulating their economy and competing in
the global marketplace as has happened in China. Apprehensive Chinese leaders,
after all, changed their rules only because they thought they had no choice
after seeing the Soviet Union fall.

So what can the United States do?

Offer both help and tough love.

Granting Mexico favorable trade incentives is cheaper in the long run than
dealing with the social problems caused by illegal immigration and the economic
consequences of billions of U.S. dollars being sent southward from Mexican
workers. The North American Free Trade Agreement, however controversial, has
probably helped decrease Mexico's general poverty rate and increase its gross
domestic product.

By closing the borders, the United States would stop subsidizing Mexican
failure. At present, workers come to America not only because of higher wages,
but also on the assumption that their cash income will often be untaxed and
augmented by subsidized state health care, housing and education.

Tax evasion and American entitlement help to free up workers' dollars to be sent
back to Mexico. In economic terms, that translates to the United States economy
subsidizing millions of the unemployed in Mexico through $20 billion annually in
cash remittances. This money weakens the incentive of millions in Mexico to seek
employment or to demand government reform.

Finally, we need honesty about the problem. Mexico masquerades as a
revolutionary socialist state, replete with flashy radical slogans that date
back to the old days of Emiliano Zapata and Pancho Villa.

In truth, Mexico City's creed is elitism and a fossilized cronyism. Its
privileged few have hurt millions of their hardworking citizens who deserve far
more humane treatment -- and sometimes find it only here in America.

VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is a classicist and historian at Stanford University's
Hoover Institution and a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday

Bank service aids immigrant workers;
CONSERVATIVE ACTIVISTS ATTACK PROGRAM

BYLINE: Molly Hennessy-Fiske, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 478 words


Even as the federal government is starting to crack down on companies that hire
illegal immigrants, it's been helping those same workers send money home, cheap.

Dubbed Directo a Mexico, the Federal Reserve-sponsored service allows customers
without Social Security numbers to wire money through the Fed system to Mexico's
central bank at little cost.

In September, the Fed expanded the remittance program by allowing immigrants,
legal or not, to open accounts at participating banks and credit unions in the
United States or Mexico. More than 27,000 transfers are made through the program
each month. About 150 banks and credit unions participate, including 20 in
California.

The program has attracted the attention of conservative immigration activists
and members of Congress, who say financial institutions shouldn't cater to
illegal immigrants.

Directo a Mexicowas intended for all Mexicans living in the United States but
did not specifically exclude those here illegally. Only immigrants who are in
the United States legally can get a Social Security number, but any Mexican
national can get a consular ID, regardless of their legal status.

Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Solana Beach, who chairs the congressional Immigration
Reform Caucus, said Directoa Mexicoand programs like it should be stopped and
that banks that participate are ``profiteering from illegal immigration.''

Bilbray is also targeting Bank of America, which earlier this month announced
plans to offer credit cards to immigrants without Social Security numbers,
drawing complaints that the nation's largest retail bank was underwriting
illegal immigration.

Bilbray said legislators are working on proposals that would prevent financial
institutions such as the Fed and Bank of America from catering to illegal
immigrants, and they are calling on the Bush administration to address the
issue.

Elizabeth McQuerry, an Atlanta-based assistant vice president for the Fed's
retail payments office, said Directo a Mexico isn't breaking any laws.

The program complies with the USA Patriot Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and other
money-laundering laws, she said. Customers have to provide identification -- a
consular identification card or other picture ID -- and banks regularly check
the documents' authenticity.

Ira Mehlman, the Los Angeles-based spokesman for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, said Directo a Mexiconot only flouts immigration law but
also hurts U.S. workers by draining money from the national economy.

``This is money earned by people who have come here illegally, often earned at
the expense of other Americans and then taken out of the country and not spent
here,'' Mehlman said.

Directo a Mexicosupporters and economists dispute claims that it harms the U.S.
economy and say the program actually will help fight crime by encouraging people
to use a legal, regulated money transfer service.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday

Major provisions of compromise plan

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; Special Reports;
News; National; Local

LENGTH: 157 words


Current illegal immigrants

Could immediately receive probationary legal status.

Once border security benchmarks are met, those meeting requirements could apply
for four-year, renewable "Z visa."

May apply for "green card" but it won't be processed before backlog of legal
applicants is cleared - about eight years.

Guest workers

Program contingent on border security measures.

Would create two-year "Y visa" for temporary guest workers, initially capped at
400,000 a year.

Two renewals allowed, but workers must return home for a year in between.

To bring along family members, workers must meet financial standards.

Future immigrants

Only spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and permanent residents would
be eligible for green cards based purely on family connection.

380,000 visas a year awarded on point system: about 50 percent on employment
criteria,

25 percent on education,

15 percent on English proficiency, 10 percent on family connection.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday

Immigration bill survives challenges

BYLINE: By Dave Montgomery McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 459 words


WASHINGTON - A controversial White House-backed immigration bill remained
largely unscathed Wednesday after withstanding assaults on two centerpiece
components: a guest-worker program and legalization for millions of undocumented
immigrants.

As many as a dozen amendments were in store Wednesday night as the Senate moved
into a home-stretch mode to try to complete action on the bill, possibly by
early next week. The Senate was expected to vote today on a motion by Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., to begin cutting off debate.

Supporters overcame a major challenge Wednesday by defeating an amendment by
Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, that would have denied legalization for hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants who defied deportation orders in the past or
re-entered the country after being deported.

Senators also rejected an amendment by Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., requiring
illegal immigrants to have high-deductible health insurance in order to obtain
"Z visas," which would allow them to stay in the country legally.

Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., lost an attempt to allow participants in a
guest-worker program to stay in the United States continuously for six years,
instead of returning home after two-year work cycles.

Members of the fragile bipartisan coalition aligned behind the bill interpreted
the votes as a sign of increasing momentum behind the legislation after nearly a
week and a half of debate.

"We're still hanging pretty tough," said Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., one of the
Senate's leading conservatives, who generally supports the legislation. Threats
of a Republican uprising over Reid's plans to limit debate seemed to be
subsiding as Senate leaders negotiated behind the scenes to allow final key
amendments over the next several days.

Nevertheless, many of the amendments held the potential to demolish bipartisan
support for the bill. Even Lott, the Senate's No. 2 Republican, acknowledged
that "I'm out of here" if senators seriously alter provisions designed to reduce
family-based immigration and end what conservatives describe as a decades-old
pattern of chain migration that has brought millions of extended family members
into the country.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., one of the bill's leading critics, distributed
copies of a Congressional Budget Office study that said the legislation, with
beefed-up security and enforcement provisions, would reduce the net annual flow
of illegal immigrants by one-quarter.

But other aspects of the legislation, said the CBO, could contribute to illegal
immigration, particularly through guest workers who overstay their visas instead
of returning home. Overall, said the analysts, the number of illegal immigrants
would drop by about 500,000 in 2017 and about 1.3 million in 2027.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday

U.S. targets illegal workers

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; Central Coast; Special Reports; News; National;
State; Local; Business

LENGTH: 1033 words


Eleuterio knew it was against the law when he sneaked into the United States 11
years ago and used someone else's Social Security number to find work.

For years, the 26-year-old, along with millions of other illegal laborers,
escaped the eye of government enforcers, buttressing the nation's agriculture
industry by doing, as he put it, "the work nobody else wants to do."

Friday, they became the focal point of the Bush administration's newest push
against illegal immigration, a sweeping effort to step up enforcement of the
nation's existing rules set to begin next month.

Authorities are promising a widespread crackdown, concentrating on Social
Security fraud with new scrutiny over workers who use bogus numbers and
increased fines against those who employ them. To avoid those higher fines,
employers must fire any employees whose numbers can't be verified within 90 days
of being notified.

The announcement has revived the immigration debate and sent ripples from
Washington, D.C., to the Salinas Valley. At least half - and as many as 80
percent - of the United States' estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants
have used false paperwork to secure jobs.

"This is going to hurt everyone," said Eleuterio, a strawberry picker and father
of two from Watsonville who didn't want his last name used because of his
immigration status.

The push comes two months after Congress failed to pass President Bush's
proposed immigration overhaul, a package of laws that would have tightened
borders, clamped down on employers and set up a series of guest-worker programs.

Instead, the administration pushed forward by looking at other tools to crack
down on immigration without a decision from lawmakers. The hope, said Michael
Chertoff and Carlos Gutierrez, secretaries of Homeland Security and Commerce,
respectively, is to put the onus on Congress to take up reforms once again.
Other provisions include tighter border control, a system to track deportations
and reduced processing times for immigrant background checks.

Although some conservative groups such as the Federation for American
Immigration Reform lauded the decision, saying it would be welcomed by a
population tired of watching illegal immigrants and their employers go
unchallenged, labor experts and others warned of economic devastation.

"It doesn't deal with the reality of the service needs of this state, which
depends heavily on illegal immigration," said Mike Garcia, president of the
local Service Employees International Union. "If you try to remove these people,
whole industries would go belly up."

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, noted that although the White House is enforcing
laws already on the books, reforming those laws would have been the best
solution.

"The impact is apt to be a significant one in several aspects of the economy,"
she said.

The Social Security Administration each year analyzes millions of Social
Security numbers that for several reasons, including fraud and human error,
don't match names provided by employers.

About 8.6 million "no match" letters will soon go out to employees across the
country for the 2006 tax year, said Lowell Kepke, spokesman for the office's San
Francisco branch. Social Security earnings for those workers - billions of
dollars a year - are placed in a holding fund until it can be determined where
the money should go. The pot of unclaimed earnings stands at about $585 billion.

Industry leaders - chiefly in the agriculture, construction and service fields -
began to brace themselves this week for a rocky transition after officials
indicated a crackdown would be announced.

The state's $32 billion agricultural industry, which relies on immigrants to
make up the majority of the 450,000 employees it needs each harvest, would be
among the hardest hit. Experts estimate that up to 70 percent of farmworkers use
false paperwork - known in the fields as "papeles chuecos" - to receive their
weekly checks.

"It will result in a loss of perishable crop," said Bob Perkins, executive
director of the Monterey County Farm Bureau, adding that the bureau's 500
members would adhere to the laws.

The Salinas Valley, where the farm bureau is based, is home to what he calls
"full-time workers," who have jobs tending farms year-round because of the
various crops that are grown.

He predicts the region - home to vast lettuce and strawberry fields - will
initially be fine because a large number of laborers in the region live there
legally. But he anticipates that those workers will be in high demand for other
jobs and eventually be enticed from the fields by industries offering higher
wages and less-grueling work.

California's restaurant industry also expects a blow to its workforce, which
studies show has a high number of undocumented immigrants, although the number
is unclear.

"It's going to cause a serious issue given the tightening of the California
labor market," said Jot Condie, president and chief executive officer of the
California Restaurant Association.

Friday morning, Condie said, he received a document from the Department of
Homeland Security outlining the stricter sanctions against employers who hire
illegal immigrants.

"It's burdensome for the employer," he said, "because they're being asked to do
some of the enforcement work for the Department of Homeland Security."

Labor expert Katie Quan said federal leaders have failed to consider the fallout
from the new push: With millions of people losing their jobs, employers will
scramble to fill behind them - and that will lead to a new influx of people
crossing the border illegally.

"Why enforce now?" asked Quan, associate chairwoman of the University of
California-Berkeley's Center for Labor Research and Education.

For Eleuterio, who has spent years looking over his own shoulder, the concern
now is his 6-year-old son. The boy, who was born in the United Sates, has
already started school and Eleuterio said he doesn't want to pull him out. It
wouldn't be fair to the boy, he said, and to his future.

Said Eleuterio: "This is going to ruin families."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

Mercury News Staff Writer Jennifer Martinez and the Associated Press contributed
to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday

Illegal worker plan dealt a loss

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 838 words


Dealing a major blow to the Bush administration's crackdown on illegal
immigration, a federal judge Wednesday put on hold new rules that would require
businesses to fire employees whose names don't match their Social Security
numbers.

U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer, warning that the push could hurt businesses
and documented workers, issued a preliminary injunction to stop any penalties
until he can hand down a final ruling on whether they are legal, probably in
several months.

The effort, announced this summer, was the focus of a renewed push by President
Bush to combat illegal immigration in the wake of Congress' failure to pass a
comprehensive immigration reform policy. If the government mounts any appeals,
the case could carry on through the 2008 presidential campaign and into the next
administration, leaving the fate of the plan murky.

Breyer, in his 22-page ruling, said the plan "would result in irreparable harm
to innocent workers and employers." He said it would place a financial burden on
employers and lead to legal workers being fired because of errors.

Immigrant and employee rights advocates - pushing for a pathway to citizenship
for the United States' estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants - hailed
Breyer's ruling as a triumph.

"Workers scored a significant victory against the Bush administration," said Ana
Avendano, an attorney with the AFL-CIO, one of several human rights, labor and
business groups that sued in U.S. District Court in San Francisco to block the
plan.

In a statement issued shortly after the ruling, the Department of Homeland
Security, the agency assigned to enforce the penalties, said it was
"disappointed" and that the Department of Justice is reviewing all options,
including an appeal.

Judge 'overstepping'

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
group calling for tougher border security, said the government should do just
that.

"The judge seems to be overstepping his authority," Mehlman said, citing the
1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, which made it unlawful for employers to
hire undocumented immigrants.

Wednesday's decision presents yet another hurdle for the White House plan, which
administration officials have conceded could be difficult to enforce because of
communication gaps.

Among the challenges, activists and illegal immigrants said news of the plan,
which has been well-documented in countries such as Guatemala and Mexico, hasn't
kept people from entering the United States illegally. Also, in many cases,
illegal workers could still hop from job to job without being caught.

The crackdown relies on letters that the Social Security Administration sends
annually to employers who have several employees whose Social Security numbers
don't match their names, either because of fraud or human error.

The so-called "no match" letters were largely ignored by employers until the
Department of Homeland Security announced in summer that it would add another
letter informing employers they had 90 days to fire workers whose IDs couldn't
be verified, or face punishment, including fines and prosecution.

The Social Security Administration planned to begin mailing 140,000 no-match
letters - affecting more than 8 million employees - to businesses across the
country in mid-September.

But the lawsuit - filed Aug. 30 - led Breyer to bar the enforcement letters from
being sent.

Breyer wrote that the plan would place a financial burden on employers by
requiring them to develop a system to check mismatches and could result in the
firing of people legally authorized to work in the country.

"There can be no doubt that the effects of the rule's implementation will be
severe," Breyer wrote, noting that it could have taken longer than 90 days for
some people to resolve errors between their Social Security numbers and names.

What's next

The Social Security Administration did not have an official statement, and is
still considering whether to send the no-match letters, without the enforcement
letters, as it has done for several decades, said spokesman Lowell Kepke.

Business leaders nationwide also were pleased with the injunction, saying, among
other things, that it will buy them time as the nation pursues the next phase of
immigration reform.

California's more than $32 billion agriculture industry, which relies on
immigrants for the majority of the 450,000 employees it needs each harvest,
would have been among the hardest hit.

Experts estimate that as many as 70 percent of California farmworkers use false
paperwork - known in the fields as papeles chuecos - to receive their weekly
checks.

The California Farm Bureau - representing 92,000 farmers - is now looking at
supporting several possibilities, including immigration policies that would
allow field workers to continue working, as well as guest-worker programs.

"This gives us breathing room to look for other options," said Jack King, the
farm bureau's national public policy director.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 27, 2006 Friday

Bush signs bill to build 700-mile border fence;
MEXICO, OTHER ALLIES PUSHED FOR VETO OF PLAN

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher and Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 697 words


President Bush signed a measure Thursday authorizing the construction of a fence
along 700 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, an action that conflicts with his own
stated vision of immigration reform but one championed by many Republicans
facing re-election in November.

Speaking at a White House ceremony before a day of campaigning for GOP
candidates in Iowa and Michigan, Bush said the barrier would help the United
States plug the porous southwest border.

``Unfortunately, the United States has not been in complete control of its
borders for decades and, therefore, illegal immigration has been on the rise,''
Bush said.

While Bush portrayed the measure as a key step toward comprehensive immigration
reform, the fence bill passed by the GOP-controlled Congress put him in a tight
squeeze with international allies and his own immigration principles on one side
and the electoral needs of his party on the other.

Boosting reform

Bush has said that immigration reform would only work if stepped up enforcement
is accompanied by a guest worker program that would create a legal path for
large numbers of low-skill workers to enter the Unites States. The president
also has endorsed allowing the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already
in the United States a chance at citizenship, saying such a humane vision of
immigration is in keeping with the nation's history and traditions.

But that position was rejected by congressional Republicans, who advocated
tougher enforcement to slow the flood of illegal immigration that is
overwhelming many communities, particularly in the West and Southwest, and they
passed a measure that did as much.

``Today marks another step forward in making America safer and in stemming the
tide of illegal immigration,'' House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., and Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said in a statement. ``The American people
demand border security, and this Republican Congress and president are committed
to achieving operational control of the border through an enforcement-first
approach.''

Burning bridges?

The government of Mexican President Vicente Fox made it clear Fox wanted the
bill vetoed. A statement by Mexico, and signed by 27 other Organization of
American States members Wednesday, expressed concern about the bill, calling it
``a unilateral measure that goes against the spirit of understanding that should
characterize how shared problems between neighboring countries are handled and
that affects cooperation in the hemisphere.''

But such concerns were outweighed by the pleadings of congressional Republicans
eager to back up their tough talk on border security with a legislative
accomplishment.

House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, hailed it ``a major victory in
Republicans' efforts to make a real difference in securing our borders.''

Appropriations lacking

Democrats dismissed it as pointless. Only a fraction of the billions needed to
finance the fence has been appropriated, and much of the construction might be
unfeasible. In swaths of Arizona, the fence would have to climb up steep, desert
crags and plunge down deep ravines.

Without the border agents to patrol it, smugglers would blast holes in remote
stretches, some critics have said. ``The bill the president signed today
represents the worst in election year politics,'' said Rep. Silvestre Reyes,
D-Texas. ``It is an empty gesture for the sole purpose of sending a false
message about the security of our nation.''

While the new law authorizes the construction of a 700-mile fence, it remains
far from clear how much fencing will actually be built.

Department of Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke declined to say if the
department is committed to building a 700-mile barrier. Instead, he cited DHS
commitment to test by next year a $67 million, 28-mile ``virtual fence''
including physical walls, vehicle barriers and remote monitoring south of
Tucson, Ariz.

Analysts, meanwhile, debate the effectiveness of a fence.

Since the United States began building a 66-mile barrier in San Diego in 1990,
illegal immigration has been re-routed to more remote areas, with many
immigrants now being funneled to the treacherous desert south of Arizona.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 14, 2006 Tuesday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 262 words

TEXAS

Dallas suburb passes anti-immigration rules

Leaders of Farmers Branch, a Dallas suburb, unanimously approved tough new
anti-immigration measures Monday evening, including one that makes English the
official language.

In a series of 6-0 votes, the city council without discussion approved fines for
landlords that deal with illegal immigrants and decided to let local authorities
screen suspects in police custody to see whether they are in the country
illegally.

MISSOURI

Report claims abortion cause of labor shortage

A Republican-led legislative panel claims in a new report on illegal immigration
that abortion is partly to blame because it is causing a shortage of U.S.
workers.

The report from the state House Special Committee on Immigration Reform also
claims ``liberal social welfare policies'' have discouraged Americans from
working and encouraged immigrants to cross the border illegally.

The statements about abortion, welfare policies and a recommendation to abolish
income taxes in favor of sales taxes were inserted into the immigration report,
which the six Democrats on the panel refused to sign. The 10 Republicans on the
committee all signed the report.

In other news

 Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a moderate Republican best known for
his role after the Sept. 11 attacks, has taken the first step in a 2008
presidential bid by filing papers to create an exploratory committee.

Florida Sen. Mel Martinez will assume the high-profile post of Republican
National Committee general chairman, GOP officials said Monday.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

Study touts role of immigrants in tech;
PART OF A PUSH TO LOOSEN IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: Constance Loizos, Mercury News

LENGTH: 698 words


Illegal immigration has been a hot topic in Washington this year, but in the
wake of last week's elections, the venture capital industry is hoping to steer
the conversation instead to legal immigration.

The reason: they argue that lawmakers who have pushed for tighter immigration
controls risk hampering both the high-tech industry and the overall economy.

``Roughly 50 percent of our portfolio companies were started by foreign-born
entrepreneurs,'' said venture capitalist Roger Lee of Battery Ventures on Sand
Hill Road, a self-described ``staunch supporter of more open borders.

``Out of the last five companies that (we've sold or that have gone public),
three have been founded or led by immigrants. That tells you something,'' he
said.

One tool that may help in Silicon Valley's fight for more open borders is a
study published today by the National Venture Capital Association. Among its
findings are that 47 percent of today's venture-backed startups have immigrant
founders, and that over the past 15 years, immigrants have founded 25 percent of
all U.S. public companies that received venture capital.

Those companies, including Google, eBay, Yahoo, Intel and Sun Microsystems,
represent a market capitalization of more than $500 billion and have created
thousands of jobs, according to the report, which took six months to compile.

To gather those numbers, the report's authors examined Thomson Financial's
database of all publicly traded, venture-backed companies founded since 1970. It
eliminated those that had merged, been purchased or were otherwise no longer
trading on the public markets, and then determined the provenance of the
remaining companies' founders.

Its findings might even underestimate the role of immigrants, said NVCA
president Mark Heesen. ``Our board of 27 directors has told us that in the
Valley in particular, probably closer to 80 percent of privately held,
venture-backed companies were started by people who immigrated to the U.S.''

One of those founders is Martin Roscheisen, the founder and CEO of solar cell
startup Nanosolar in Palo Alto, who was born and raised in Munich, Germany, and
has gone on to raise $103 million from more than half a dozen venture capital
firms.

``I didn't have any trouble when I (immigrated) to the U.S. 14 years ago,'' he
said. ``Today, it's quite an issue. We're facing a real shortage of talented
people as a result.''

While difficult to predict the study's impact, its timing may prove auspicious.
``We're very much hoping that Congress will take a (renewed) look at the legal
side of immigration, and the woefully inadequate policies that are currently in
place,'' said Heesen.

Still, opposition remains to the NVCA's efforts. ``Many companies have abused
the program by hiring foreigners to replace American engineers,'' said Ira
Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for Immigration Reform, a nonprofit that
supports immigration enforcement and overall reductions in immigration levels.
More, he said, ``You've seen higher corporate profits in which workers aren't
sharing. The law of supply and demand tells you that if there was a dearth of
skilled people, you'd see wage inflation at a time when companies have more
money.''

As part of its efforts, the NVCA is lobbying to promote the passage of the SKIL
Act of 2006, now before the House Judiciary Committee. The bill, introduced in
late June, would exempt from current visa caps any foreigner who has earned a
master's or higher degree from an accredited U.S. university or been awarded
certification based on his or her post-doctoral training.

The SKIL Act -- which stands for the Securing Knowledge, Innovation, and
Leadership Act -- would also increase the number of H-1B visas awarded every
year, from 65,000 to 125,000, with a 20 percent increase in visas the following
year if the previous year's quota is reached. H-1B visas, reserved for highly
skilled guest workers, were first awarded in 1990, but the number of the visas
was capped in 2004 at 65,000 by lawmakers alarmed by how big the program had
grown. (From 2001 through 2003, roughly 195,000 H-1B visas were awarded
annually.)

Contact Constance Loizos at cloizos@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5920.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 9, 2007 Friday

Latinos air crackdown concerns;
REDWOOD CITY TRIES TO REASSURE RESIDENTS ABOUT IMMIGRATION SWEEPS

BYLINE: Michael Manekin, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 502 words


More than 150 concerned residents crowded a community center in the heavily
Latino North Fair Oaks neighborhood of Redwood City to address what
immigrant-rights advocates and police are calling the most serious immigration
crackdown in years.

Since federal immigration agents began to sweep the city for illegal immigrants
last week, at least seven residents have been arrested -- possibly, to be
deported.

The city's large Latino community, meanwhile, has lived in fear that ``La Migra
'' could swoop down and carry moms, dads, sisters and brothers back across the
border.

Many Latinos have avoided city streets whenever possible. School attendance has
dropped, as parents have resisted walking their children to school. Even the
city's ubiquitous migrant workers have kept a low-profile.

At Thursday's meeting, city and county officials, local law enforcement and
dozens of immigrant-rights advocates sorted reality from rumor, explained legal
rights and attempted to pacify a panicked community.

``This is a time of disaster,'' said Vicky Avila of the El Concilio of San Mateo
County, a local non-profit organization concerned with Latino issues.

The recent sweeps, conducted by the U.S. Department of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, are part of ``Operation Return to Sender,'' a nationwide crackdown
on illegal immigrants with outstanding deportation orders or criminal records.

But immigration officials acknowledge that the agency routinely picks up
individuals with neither criminal records nor outstanding deportation orders.

The detention of illegals with clean histories rankles local immigration
advocates. The community meeting offered a refresher on immigrants' rights --
including refusing an immigration agent entry into one's home unless a search
warrant is produced.

``To the immigrants, I say, please have your hearts open and keep your mouths
shut,'' said Mark Silverman of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center after a crash
course on the Fourth and Fifth amendments.

Redwood City Police Chief Louis Cobarruviaz assured the crowd in Spanish that
the city had not cooperated in the recent sweeps, adding that local law
enforcement would not check on anyone's immigration status except in the event
of a serious crime.

City Councilwoman Alicia C. Aguirre implored the gathering to ``educate
yourselves, spread the word and don't answer `La Migra.' ''

But for some residents, such advice does not apply. Last Thursday, on the first
day of the sweeps, Gina Castaneda of Redwood City received a frantic phone call
from a good friend. Immigration agents were already in her apartment, responding
to a deportation order issued in 2003. For Castaneda's friend, who was in the
process of applying for residency, the order was a shock -- but there was
nothing she could do.

By the time Castaneda arrived, her friend was handcuffed in the back of a van.
Castaneda is caring for the woman's two children.

``I feel outrage,'' said Castaneda. ``I'm furious that they would take her away
and leave her children alone.''

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 12, 2007 Monday

Immigration bill may finally get jump-start;
WITH BUSH CALLING FOR SOLUTION, DEMOCRATS PROMISE ACTION

BYLINE: Frank Davies, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words


After years of debate and deadlock, Congress seems to have all the ingredients
this year to revamp a broken immigration system and devise a way to handle up to
12 million undocumented immigrants while tightening border security.

Advocates of reform can point to new Democratic leaders who have promised
action, the support of President Bush, the failure of hard-line anti-immigration
appeals in the past election, and a large coalition of business, labor, church
and rights groups ready to turn up the pressure again.

``This is a rare time when the politics are right for both parties to act,''
said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the San Jose Democrat who chairs the House immigration
subcommittee. ``The expectation is that Democrats, in power, will get something
done, and we have to do that. And if most Republicans block this again, they
will put themselves in political peril.''

But don't expect a comprehensive immigration bill to be on Bush's desk soon.
Formidable obstacles remain, including the emotional, unpredictable nature of
immigration politics and the pressure of an early presidential campaign.

``It may be approved in some form by the Senate, but it will stumble again in
the House, just as last year,'' predicted Mark Krikorian, executive director of
the Center for Immigration Studies, in a recent online debate. ``The public
overwhelmingly supports consistent enforcement to reduce the illegal
population.''

Many voters said last year they wanted to see tougher border security and better
workplace verification of employees' legal status before they would consider a
plan to legalize undocumented workers. That has been the position of most
Republicans on Capitol Hill.

But exit polls in November showed that more than 60 percent said they agreed
that illegal immigrants should be allowed to apply for legal status. Democratic
leaders will push for what they call ``earned legalization'' -- some combination
of fines, taxes and other requirements before an illegal immigrant can become a
legal resident. Citizenship would probably take much longer.

``Around the country, people are clamoring to fix this. They know that 12
million people aren't going to be sent back. They know most of these people are
law-abiding and important to the economy,'' said Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow
at the conservative Manhattan Institute who has attended meetings and focus
groups on immigration.

New bill on its way

This week, Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., plans to introduce a bill similar to the
one that attracted the support of almost two-thirds of the Senate last year,
including 23 Republicans. His co-sponsor, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., is expected
to lend his support again.

The bill will set conditions for undocumented residents to gain legal status.
Last year's bill included a three-tier system that made it easier or harder for
residents, depending on how many years they have lived in the United States.

That system was included to lure more votes, but its supporters now see it as
cumbersome and flawed. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger called it ``unenforceable''
and said a ``common-sense system'' must be devised that everyone, including
illegal immigrants, can understand.

Bush, in his State of the Union speech, said, ``We need to resolve the status of
illegal immigrants already in our country without animosity and without
amnesty.''

While backers of reform talk about ``earned legalization,'' critics cry
``amnesty'' and remind voters of the failed 1986 amnesty, which was accompanied
by promises of better border security that weren't kept.

Some GOP presidential candidates are sounding that theme, or largely avoiding
the issue.

But Republicans face another problem if they are seen as blocking immigration
reform -- a backlash from Latino voters, the fastest-growing segment of the
electorate.

Matthew Dowd, a strategist who helped Bush and Schwarzenegger win re-election,
said Republicans need to hold about 38 to 40 percent of the Latino vote.

Bush made serious inroads in the Latino vote in his two election victories,
topping 40 percent in 2004. But last year, GOP candidates and ads with harsh
rhetoric -- some equated Mexican immigrants with terrorists -- galvanized the
Latino vote, which split about 70 to 30 percent for Democrats. Two Republicans
known for hard-line immigration stances lost congressional races in Arizona.

``For Democrats, this could be a California-like opportunity,'' said Simon
Rosenberg, director of the centrist New Democrat Network, referring to
Republican Gov. Pete Wilson's anti-immigrant positions in the 1990s, which drove
many California Latinos into the Democratic camp.

Democrats split

Democrats face their own internal disagreements on immigration. Some of their
union backers don't want more undocumented workers in the country, and a few new
Democrats won House seats from the GOP by stressing the need for border security
over a comprehensive plan.

Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said he wants floor action on an immigration
bill this spring, with passage before a summer recess in August. Lofgren and
other House Democrats say they are ready to take up and debate a comprehensive
bill -- something the House did not do under GOP leaders.

Lofgren said she expects a bill to include provisions for more agricultural
laborers through a guest-worker program, more visas for high-tech employees and
legal status for students who came to the United States as young children.

``From rocket scientists to strawberry pickers, we want it to be
comprehensive,'' said Lofgren, who taught immigration law at Santa Clara
University.

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 26, 2007 Thursday

ACLU files lawsuit against Immigration enforcement agency

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Local; News; Peninsula; San Jose - Valley; Communities;
Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 667 words


Bay Area civil rights groups filed a lawsuit Thursday on behalf of a
seven-year-old boy, a U.S. citizen by birth, who was detained for 10 hours by
immigration agents, after arresting the boy's father on an immigration violation
last month.

Lawyers said it's the first time they've documented a U.S. citizen, the child of
an immigrant, detained in the federal government's crackdown on illegal
immigrants called "Operation Return to Sender."

The lawsuit was filed in federal court against the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency in San Francisco by the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights,
American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California, and ACLU's Immigrant
Rights Project. It was filed on behalf of Kebin Reyes, 7, and his father, Noe
Reyes, both of San Rafael.

"Taking a six-year-old boy and putting him in a locked room for 10 hours is
egregious," said Philip Hwang, staff attorney with the Lawyers' Committee in San
Francisco. "The purpose of the lawsuit is to hold government officials
accountable."

Noe Reyes, 37, an immigrant from Guatemala, was arrested at his home on March 6,
by agents for Immigration and Customs Enforcement who were conducting a sweep
for illegal immigrants in San Rafael. Dozens of immigrants, sought by the agents
on previous deportation orders and others found to be without legal documents,
were also arrested.

At a news conference at ACLU's office in San Francisco Thursday morning, Reyes
said on the morning of his arrest, he showed ICE agents his son's passport then
requested they give him a chance to call a relative before being taken into
custody.

His hands handcuffed behind his back, Reyes and his son were transported to the
ICE detention facility in San Francisco.

"I was not allowed to make a phone call," Reyes said. "I made many requests but
I was denied."

Of the boy the father said: "Kebin realized after hours have gone by that he
wasn't going home. He was very sad and upset. I didn't want him to suffer."

Reyes and his lawyers declined to discuss his current immigration status but
said that he has a pending immigration case and he has been released from
detention. They also said that Reyes does not have a criminal history or
previous arrests.

But according to ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice, an immigration judge ordered
Reyes deported in November 2000, after being found to be in the U.S. without
legal status. He was arrested last month based on that deportation order and was
jailed for more than a month. Since his arrest, he has filed a court request to
re-open his case. A hearing is scheduled in June. He is out on a $5,000 bond.

"I want to know why I wasn't allowed to seek protection for my child," Reyes
said in Spanish.

Kice declined to comment on the lawsuit.

However, she said that in cases where arresting agents encounter children, "our
preference is for a relative to come take custody of minors."

In this situation, said Kice, agents took the child with the father after
learning that a relative was not immediately available to take the child after
the father's arrest.

"Clearly the action they took was in the interest of insuring the child's
safety," she said. "We weren't going to leave a minor in a home unattended."

Lawyers and advocates said the boy's detention is the latest example of the
fallout from ICE raids that have struck fear in immigrant communities in the Bay
Area and other places around the country. More than 18,000 immigrants - those
who have been ordered deported previously and others with criminal convictions -
have been arrested under "Operation Return to Sender."

In raids in the past 12 months in Redwood City, San Francisco, Santa Cruz, Marin
and Contra Costa County, children, many of them U.S. citizens by birth, were
left with relatives and neighbors after the arrests of their parents.

In the lawsuit, the legal groups alleged civil rights violations against Reyes
and his son. They are seeking an unspecified amount in damages.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

Arguing over official U.S. language isn't relevant to immigration reform

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 709 words


Of all the questions fielded by the Democratic presidential hopefuls during
Sunday's debate in New Hampshire, at least one should never have been asked. In
fact, to their credit, a pair of candidates had the good sense to reject it out
of hand.

Moderator Wolf Blitzer wanted to know if any of the candidates believed English
should be the official language of the United States. He posed that question
after a series of others on immigration, and he framed it as "related" to that
issue.

It isn't.

You might argue that language is part of the current debate because Congress is
considering whether to require illegal immigrants to learn English on the road
to earn legal status.

But that wasn't the question. Declaring English the country's official language
has absolutely nothing to do with immigration policy.

If your gripe with the status quo is that America's borders are insecure or that
illegal immigrants cost us a bundle in government services - or that, darn it,
"these people are here illegally and what part of illegal don't you understand?"
- none of those things is impacted one way or another by whatever language
newcomers speak.

So the question Blitzer fired off wasn't really "related" to the immigration
issue.

Instead, it was wrapped up in what is driving much of the immigration debate:
this ugly, xenophobic anxiety that many Americans are feeling over cultural
change and demographic displacement as the Latino population in this country
grows and grows, in part because of immigrants from Mexico and the rest of Latin
America.

Let's be clear about that. Although President Bush took knocks from the
nativists for saying it, he was on the money last week when he implied that much
of the resistance to the bipartisan Senate compromise on immigration was driven
by a fear of diversity.

In an interview with McClatchy Newspapers, Bush said that, growing up in Texas,
he learned to "recognize the decency and hard work and humanity of Hispanics."
But not everyone had that experience and so, he said, "a lot of this immigration
debate is driven as a result of Latinos being in our country."

Bull's-eye. That may sting a little, but the truth will do that.

No wonder we keep getting detoured and convert so easily from talking about
immigration to talking about language.

The Senate took that detour last year when, in the middle of debating
immigration, senators suddenly felt the uncontrollable urge to pass a symbolic
resolution declaring English the national language.

Still, I wish Blitzer hadn't steered the Democratic debate in that direction -
even if two of the candidates were willing to follow.

Former Sen. Mike Gravel won applause when he noted that - while he spoke both
English and French - yes, of course, "the official language of the United States
of America is English."

Sen. Hillary Clinton gave a dispassionate lawyerly answer defining the
difference between declaring English the national language - which she supports
- and the official language - which she doesn't.

Making English an official language, she said, might result in
non-English-speaking people being denied services such as court translators or
bilingual ballots.

Sens. Barack Obama and Chris Dodd saw the question for what it was and refused
to answer.

Obama said "This is the kind of question that is designed precisely to divide
us" and urged his colleagues to instead refocus their attention on coming up
with a legal and sensible immigration policy.

When the immigration debate gets sidetracked by such questions, Obama said, "we
do a disservice to the American people."

Dodd agreed the question was divisive and - noting he spoke Spanish - made a
pitch for more language training.

Sounding a lot like Bush, Dodd insisted that because we live in a global
economy, "we need to encourage more diversity" instead of wasting energy arguing
about whether we should designate one official language in this country.

In their responses, Obama and Dodd showed class, character and - given that most
Americans support declaring English the official language - courage. These are
not bad qualities to have if you're seeking the nation's highest office.

Frankly, I don't care if presidential candidates speak Spanish or French or
Swahili.

But I want them to be fluent in common sense.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

Poll: Immigration tops Californians' concerns

BYLINE: By Steve Geissinger MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 332 words


SACRAMENTO - Californians are far more concerned about immigration issues than
the economy and health care, and they doubt that a divided federal government
will find solutions any time soon, according to a poll released Wednesday.

Immigration tops Californians' list of important matters, regardless of the
region, political party, racial identity or gender of those surveyed, the San
Francisco-based Public Policy Institute of California found.

Residents "support some of the federal proposals for immigration reform," said
poll director Mark Baldassare, but have "little faith the Republican president
and Democratic-led Congress can work together" through the end of Bush's term.

Likewise, the survey indicated nearly three-quarters of Californians believe the
health care system needs revamping, though they are losing confidence in state
political leaders' plans for an overhaul this year.

The White House and Congress had resumed debate on an immigration package
Wednesday that could create a path to citizenship for millions of illegal
immigrants, create a temporary worker program, strengthen border security and
institute a new system for removing illegal immigrants from workplaces.

"The immigration reform bill was already almost killed," said Melissa Michelson,
a political-science professor at California State University-East Bay. "So it
encourages the kind of thinking in the poll and gives little hope that any sort
of compromise will actually be passed by Congress this year."

The poll - reflecting a trend that began building a year ago - indicated 25
percent of Californians now see immigration and illegal immigration as the
state's most pressing issue. The closer to the California-Mexico border, the
stronger the sentiment.

The telephone survey of 2,003 Californians was conducted June 12-19. The margin
of error is plus or minus two percentage points.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The poll is at www.ppic.org.

Contact Steve Geissinger at sgeissinger@angnewspapers.com or (916) 447-9302.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Trade deals can give Bush a chance to redeem himself

BYLINE: By Andres Oppenheimer

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 708 words


The two signature issues of the Bush administration's policy toward Latin
America - immigration reform and fast-track authority to sign new free-trade
deals - died a sudden death last week, leaving the United States with little to
offer at a time of growing anti-Americanism in the region.

The collapse in Congress of the administration-backed immigration bill, which
would have allowed a path to U.S. citizenship to 12 million undocumented
migrants, has fallen like a cold shower in Mexico and Central America.

It is no coincidence Mexican President Felipe Caldero`n chose to be standing
next to leftist Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega on Thursday when he told
reporters the Senate's failure to pass the immigration bill had been a "grave
mistake."

Closing the door to a new legal migration system will lead to more illegal
immigration, more deaths along the border and more exploitation of undocumented
migrants, Mexican officials say.

It will also limit the impact of the $60 billion a year in family remittances to
Latin American countries. If most of this money were sent by legal U.S.
residents through regular bank accounts, it could be a major engine of economic
development in Latin America, allowing millions of poor to use it as collateral
for loans to build homes or start small businesses.

Meantime, the June 30 expiration of the congressional authority for Bush to sign
new free-trade agreements left the administration without what had been the
centerpiece of its policy toward the region.

While Congress last week extended the four-country Andean Trade Preference Act,
and most Latin American countries that wanted free-trade deals with Washington
have already signed them - Congress has yet to ratify trade deals with Peru,
Panama and Colombia - the ability to expedite trade deals was the
administration's main carrot in the region.

So what will happen next? Most well-placed U.S. watchers of Latin American
affairs agree the administration should focus its energies on getting Congress
to approve the pending free-trade deals, and setting the stage for bipartisan
policies in the next U.S. administration.

Arturo Valenzuela, a former Clinton White House chief adviser on Latin American
affairs, proposes a top level bipartisan Commission on Latin America, co-chaired
by a prominent Democrat and a prominent Republican.

That would also help give Latin America a higher priority in Washington,
Valenzuela says.

Otto Reich, a former Bush White House chief adviser on Latin America, proposes
that the administration concentrate on enforcing existing policies that are not
being fully implemented, such as rules that allow the State Department to yank
U.S. visas of corrupt foreign politicians.

"In Latin America, the right has lost respect for us, and the left has lost fear
of us," Reich said. "I would try to restore a little bit of both by enforcing
our policies."

Others say there is a silver lining in the recent immigration and trade
setbacks: A less proactive U.S. role in the region may force Latin American
governments to stop blaming Washington for their problems and start working to
become more competitive in the world economy, like China, India and Eastern
Europe have done.

My opinion: The Bush administration should focus on getting Congress to ratify
the three pending free-trade deals with Latin American countries. And, sure, it
should convene a top-level bipartisan task force on Latin America - ideally led
by former Presidents Clinton and George H.W. Bush to seek a consensus on future
U.S. policies toward the region.

Meanwhile, Bush could leave the closest thing to a legacy in the region by
building on his recently announced partnership with Brazil to jointly produce
sugar-based ethanol in Caribbean Basin countries.

That would kill three birds with one stone: help reduce U.S. oil dependence on
Venezuela's narcissist-Leninist leader Hugo Cha`vez (whose megalomania is being
fed with $32 billion a year in U.S. purchases of Venezuelan oil) while drawing
Brazil - South America's biggest country - closer to Washington and helping prop
up stagnant Central American and Caribbean economies.

Beyond that, I'm afraid there is not much more this administration can do in
Latin America over its remaining 18 months in office.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday

Immigration bill's loss puts states in bind

BYLINE: By David S. Broder

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 723 words


WASHINGTON - Hours after the immigration reform bill he had championed went down
to defeat, Sen. John McCain told me what he thought would happen next. "You will
see the states and cities scrambling to pass their own laws and regulations," he
said, "and you're going to get a completely contradictory set of policies."

It did not take long for McCain's prediction to be confirmed - right in his own
home state of Arizona. Four days after the Senate killed the comprehensive
immigration bill supported by President Bush, Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, a
Democrat, signed a bill her Republican Legislature had passed imposing extremely
tough sanctions on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Napolitano, who had vetoed somewhat similar legislation a year earlier, said in
a statement that she decided to approve "the most aggressive action in the
country" against such employers, "because it is now abundantly clear that
Congress finds itself incapable of coping with the comprehensive immigration
reforms our country needs."

She signed the bill, despite finding it so severely flawed that she called on
legislative leaders to plan a special session this fall to amend the measure
even before it is scheduled to go into effect Jan. 1.

Arizona has been swamped with illegal immigrants coming across the border from
Mexico. Napolitano declared a border emergency in 2005 and moved in additional
law enforcement resources, as federal border patrols reported that half of their
arrests nationally were taking place in Arizona.

I know Napolitano to be a conscientious and committed executive. As a former
U.S. attorney for Arizona and state attorney general, she is serious about law
enforcement. But she is also a compassionate person, and she has joined McCain
in unsuccessfully opposing voter initiatives to deny public benefits to the
children of illegal immigrants. And she vetoed other immigration bills.

But with the failure of Congress, she found herself in a position of having to
leave the problem to fester or signing a seriously flawed bill.

The new state legislation requires every Arizona business to verify the legal
status of each new employee. That's also a requirement of long-established
federal law, but the feds rarely enforce it. Under the new Arizona statute, the
first violation can result in a suspension of the business license. A second
offense can mean permanent revocation - in effect, an order to go out of
business.

Napolitano warned the Legislature that some of those provisions went too far.
Without any exclusion for vital public services, she said, a hospital or power
plant could be shut down for hiring undocumented workers.

She also found the financing in the bill "woefully inadequate" for the task of
enforcing the law, and she worried about the absence of any statutory protection
against discrimination by race or national origin.

But she said, "Because of Congress' failure to act, states like Arizona have no
choice but to take strong action to discourage the further flow of illegal
immigration through our borders."

In a separate letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, her fellow Democrats, Napolitano chided Congress for having "once again
failed to take action on comprehensive immigration reform."

She pointed to one of the other practical consequences of that failure. The
Arizona bill requires employers to use the federal government's Basic Pilot
Program, a computer database that lets businesses check legal residences against
Social Security numbers, to verify the employment status of new workers.
Currently, Napolitano noted, the program serves fewer than 15,000 businesses
nationwide. Arizona alone will add 130,000 to 150,000 new businesses to its
clientele. Napolitano pointedly asked if the feds are prepared to finance a
tenfold increase in the demands on that system.

She concluded her letter: "For years now, I have spoken out on the desperate
need for comprehensive immigration reform. Today, I renew my call on Congress to
enact such legislation. The United States Congress has a responsibility to act
swiftly and definitively to solve this problem on the national level."

When Congress fails that responsibility, it imposes an unfair burden on its
partners in state and local government - and on the people they serve. That
failure has become chronic and crippling.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

Immigration authorities conceding crackdown not as tough as expected

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera and Lisa Friedman MediaNews

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics;
Breaking

LENGTH: 907 words


A week after unveiling a major crackdown on businesses that hire illegal
immigrants, the Bush administration is now conceding that its most heavily
touted weapon in pursuing employers - an assault against Social Security fraud -
will be nearly useless.

That's because when the Social Security Administration warns employers about
bogus identification numbers, it remains barred from also alerting the
Department of Homeland Security, the agency that's supposed to hand out
penalties.

In addition, federal promises to hold companies responsible for hiring illegal
immigrants could potentially be stymied by several other issues: Employers are
still not required to check a new employee's Social Security number against a
free federal database, there could be long gaps between when an employee is
hired to when the warnings are issued each year, and there is no way to follow
up on employees who have been fired. In many cases, illegal workers could still
hop from job to job without being caught.

The only way the government can punish an employer - with fines or criminal
charges - is if someone first tips them off about potential fraud and then,
during the course of the investigation, authorities discover evidence that
Social Security warnings have been ignored.

"There are a number of people who do come forward and tell us an employer is not
conforming with the law," said Veronica Valdez, a spokeswoman for the Department
of Homeland Security. "While we don't get information directly from the Social
Security Administration, we do see that we get a lot of tips."

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the department's investigative
branch, will aggressively work off such tips - using, among other tactics, raids
- with an eye for those who are knowingly hiring illegal immigrants, ICE
spokeswoman Virginia Kice said.

Although immigration authorities and some lawmakers say the enforcement may make
a difference, those who have been up in arms over the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants living in the country say they feel bamboozled.

Jeff Wilson, a Bay Area resident clamoring for tougher immigration enforcement,
was skeptical when he heard last week about the boosted enforcement, which calls
for higher fines for employers who don't fire employees caught using bogus
Social Security numbers within 90 days.

"When I hear about anything the Bush administration is going to do, I don't
believe it," said Wilson, who operates an anti-illegal-immigration Web site. "I
think it was simply to look good. I believe in action - not words."

Advocates for immigrant rights also have taken issue with the crackdown, calling
it a "scare tactic" to encourage people to return to their home countries or
risk being found out by their employers.

"A lot of people may not think it's not worth staying here," said Salvador
Bustamante, Northern California director of Strengthening Our Lives, which
encourages civic participation among immigrants. "I think it's just a scare
tactic."

Within the next few weeks, the Social Security Administration nationally will
send out about 140,000 warnings - or so-called "no match" letters - to
businesses with at least 10 employees whose numbers can't be verified. About
35,000 of those will go to employers in California.

The envelopes will include a separate letter from the Department Homeland
Security informing companies that they may be in violation of immigration law
and have 90 days to verify the employees' identities.

If they do not, the letter warns, the agency may "determine that you have
violated the law by knowingly continuing to employ an unauthorized person." A
first-offense fine was increased to $2,200 for each employee.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced the agency would clamp
down on employers who knowingly and willfully violate the law. Left untouched,
however, was Section 6103 of the IRS code - a privacy provision the government
has long interpreted to mean that the Social Security Administration is
forbidden from sharing tax information with other agencies.

Several members of Congress, including Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Thousand Oaks,
have tried to amend the provision. Most recently the failed Senate immigration
bill, which also would have granted citizenship to millions of illegal
immigrants, sought to fix it.

"It would make it a lot easier," Valdez said.

Still, leaders of California industries that rely heavily on illegal labor, like
agriculture and restaurants, say they aren't taking any chances. Trade groups
that represent the sectors said they have strongly recommended that employers
follow the new rules, regardless of the government's ability to trace its own
threats.

"This is another tool in their kit," said John Gay, top lobbyist for the
National Restaurant Association. The group represents about 1.4 million
estimated employees in California, though it claims not to know how many are
illegal immigrants. "It's easier to establish a violation with these rules."

Tom Nassif, president of the California Grower's Association, said he believes
the new rules will cripple California's $32 billion agricultural industry. About
70 percent of the state's estimated 450,000 farm workers during the peak harvest
season are illegal immigrants, and Nassif believes most if not all will be fired
by fearful employers.

"With that dramatic a loss, I think people stop producing," he said.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 338 words


ILLINOIS

Illegal immigrant to

leave church sanctuary

Elvira Arellano, the Mexican national who entered the country illegally and has
avoided deportation for a year by taking refuge inside a Chicago church, said
Wednesday that she plans to leave her sanctuary and push for immigration reform
in Washington.

At a news conference at the church where she has been living, Arellano said she
intends to use her status as a figurehead for the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants to leverage support for more lenient legislative reforms.

After the Senate failed to pass a bipartisan bill in June that would have
offered legalization for undocumented immigrants, the federal government has
stepped up enforcement through more workplace raids, higher penalties against
employers who hire illegal workers and a more concerted effort to go after
fugitives who have been ordered to leave the country.

If immigration authorities "want to arrest me over there, in front of Congress .
. . and deport me in front of all those people that make the changes in the law,
it's fine," said Arellano, 32. "But I'm not going to stay quiet . . . I have to
fight and this is part of the fight."

UTAH

Device detects some

vibrations inside mine

Some noise was detected by two devices monitoring vibrations near where six
miners were trapped by a cave-in nearly 10 days ago, raising "a very small
amount" of hope that the men might be found alive, officials said.

The sound picked up by two geophones could be a rock breaking underground or an
animal, said Richard Stickler, chief of the federal Mine Safety and Health
Administration.

"We saw some indication of noise for a period of about five minutes that we had
not seen before," Stickler said.

Still, experts say the chances of finding the men alive are slim.

As crews slowly dig a path to the men's presumed location at the Crandall Canyon
Mine, the holes drilled deep into the mountain amount to little more than
guesses about their location.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday

Immigration activist who sought sanctuary arrested in L.A.

BYLINE: By Peter Prengaman

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 437 words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - An illegal immigrant who became the face of the immigration
reform movement while taking refuge in a Chicago church to avoid deportation has
been arrested, the church's pastor said.

Elvira Arellano was arrested before 3 p.m. outside Our Lady Queen of Angels
church on L.A.'s historic Olvera Street, where she had been speaking to
reporters, said the Rev. Walter Coleman, pastor of Adalberto United Methodist
Church in Chicago.

Coleman said he was with Arellano when she was detained, but declined to provide
other details.

"We're trying to determine her situation right now," he said.

It was unclear what law enforcement agency had taken Arellano into custody. A
call to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement was not immediately returned.

"We are sad, but at the same time we are angry," said Javier Rodriguez, a
Chicago immigration activist who worked with Arellano. "How dare they arrest
this woman?"

The 32-year-old Arellano had arrived in Los Angeles on Saturday, leaving her
sanctuary for the first time in a year to campaign for immigration reform.

Her decision to take sanctuary inspired a "New Sanctuary Movement," in which a
handful of churches across the country have begun to house illegal immigrants.

Arellano said she was staying in the United States illegally because of her
8-year-old son, Saul, who was born in America and thus a U.S. citizen. She has
repeatedly called for a stop to immigration raids that break up "mixed
families," that is families that have some members with legal status and others
who are in the country illegally.

Arellano said Saturday she was not afraid of being taken into custody by
immigration agents. She said she planned to take her cause to Washington, D.C.

"From the time I took sanctuary the possibility has existed that they arrest me
in the place and time they want," Arellano said in Spanish. "I only have two
choices. I either go to my country, Mexico, or stay and keep fighting. I decided
to stay and fight."

Arellano came to Washington state illegally in 1997. She was deported to Mexico
shortly after, but returned and moved to Illinois in 2000, taking a job cleaning
planes at O'Hare International Airport.

She was arrested in 2002 at O'Hare and later convicted of working under a false
Social Security number. She was to surrender to authorities last August.

She sought sanctuary at the storefront church on Chicago's West Side Aug. 15,
2006. She had not left the church property until deciding to be driven to Los
Angeles, Coleman said.

---

Associated Press writers Michael Tarm in Chicago and Raquel Maria Dillon in Los
Angeles contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

Give young immigrants way to earn right to stay

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 700 words


Since the demise of comprehensive immigration reform earlier this year, I've
been looking for another idea that would give illegal immigrants the chance to
become legal but require that those who receive such a privilege give back quite
a bit in return.

For a while, I thought this sort of thing would never materialize. In fact, you
could say, I thought I was dreaming. But now comes the DREAM Act (for
Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors). The idea needs adjustments,
but it's a step in the right direction. The measure - proposed by Sen. Dick
Durbin, D-Ill. - would give U.S. citizenship to individuals if they had come to
the United States before age 16, graduated from high school or received a GED,
and completed two years of college or military service. Durbin tried to insert
the idea as an amendment to the defense authorization bill, but Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid nixed it because there wasn't enough support. Reid did promise
to bring the DREAM Act to a vote next month.

It's the mention of military service that concerns those on the extreme left,
who fret that students who can't afford college might be so eager for
citizenship that they could wind up in Iraq. Meanwhile, the extreme right thinks
that the idea will serve as a magnet for illegal immigration (as opposed to say,
jobs) and rejects it as nothing more than - wait for it - amnesty.

As usual, both extremes are wrong. But to assuage some of those concerns, I
think the DREAM Act should be tweaked so that students have to complete a
four-year degree or four-year military enlistment before qualifying, and then
they would qualify only for legal residency - not citizenship. Once they become
legal, they should have to follow the same steps anyone else does to obtain
citizenship. We might also add a third option besides college or the military.
How about two years of national service in a poor community within the United
States? If the point is to find some way for these young people to contribute to
the betterment of a country that is about to grant them legal status, that would
surely do the trick.

The specifics can be worked out, but let's not lose sight of the real strength
of the DREAM Act. It's the quid pro quo of offering illegal immigrants a path to
legalization but not making that path a cakewalk. It offers something precious -
the right to stay in the United States legally - but it isn't bashful about
demanding certain things in return.

Every single piece of immigration reform that comes along should strike the same
sort of bargain. Those who don't want to accept the terms and take the deal can
go about their business, and bet their chances with immigration authorities. But
those who do will have demonstrated that they're willing to make an investment
in a country that has already given them a lot and stands to give them much
more. In return, the rest of us get a higher-earning, greater-producing legal
resident who can contribute to society for many years to come.

Speaking of a contribution, there are those who don't seem to be making much of
one in this debate. Far and away, one of the shrillest and most alarming
arguments against this bill is coming from conservative Republicans who insist
that enacting this sort of reform would somehow reduce educational opportunities
for native-born U.S. citizens by forcing them to compete with illegal immigrants
for admission to colleges, scholarships and the like. Rep. Dana Rohrabacher,
R-Huntington Beach, glibly labeled the DREAM Act "a nightmare" that would drain
scarce resources.

It's official. The protectionists have no shame. We now have members of Congress
who - after years of arguing that Americans are threatened by trade deals,
high-tech workers and low-wage laborers - are trying to protect native-born high
school students from the embarrassment of competing with illegal immigrant
students and losing out.

It just hit me. What Americans really need is a domestic DREAM Act for our own
kids - something to remind the little darlings that, if you want something out
of life, you have to put something back in. If they learn that, they won't need
protecting.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday

New law prevents cities from turning turning landlords into immigration police

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 560 words


As cities across the country grapple with illegal immigration, Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger signed a new state law Wednesday that prohibits county and
municipal governments in California from enacting local laws that would require
landlords to ask a tenant's immigration status.

California may be the first state in the country to use state legislation to
deal with a growing national trend that began in 2006 when the city of Hazelton,
Pa., approved a city ordinance that penalized landlords for renting to illegal
immigrants.

"These ordinances are a result of a larger problem," said Francisco Castillo, a
spokesman for the governor. He cited "the failure of Congress to enact
meaningful immigration reform."

The bills' sponsor, Assemblyman Charles M. Calderon, D-City of Industry, and
leaders of a state association of apartment owners, hailed the new law, which
takes effect on Jan. 1, as a civil rights victory.

"It's important legislation because it's the beginning of a trend we're seeing
throughout the country as cities begin to try to establish their own foreign
policies," Calderon said.

"Only the federal government can do that," he said. "It's important that we
don't have vigilante justice."

The Concerned Women for America, a Christian women's group, opposed AB 976. In
legislative documents, the group said that cities and municipalities are trying
to use local ordinances to deal with illegal immigration "and prevent squalor
that is dangerous not only to the individuals involved, but also to the
surrounding neighborhoods where sanitation, parking and other troubles ensue."

A national spokeswoman for the group did not return a telephone message.

The American Civil Liberties Union, labor unions, immigrant advocacy groups and
landlord groups pushed for the bill, AB 976, after the city of Escondido passed
an ordinance last year that prohibited landlords from renting to illegal
immigrants, and imposed penalties when landlords failed to check on the
immigration status of prospective tenants.

Civil rights groups successfully challenged the ordinance in federal court,
arguing that it would lead to discrimination of immigrants seeking housing and
turn landlords into immigration police.

The Escondido ordinance was later rescinded.

A federal lawsuit on the Hazelton, P.A., case is pending.

Such local ordinances put landlords "between a rock and a hard place," said Ron
Kingston, a lobbyist for the landlord group, Apartment Association of California
Southern Cities.

"We needed to be assured that our landlords were not going to become de facto
immigration police," Kingston said. "We needed confirmation that our landlords
and managers can receive information to determine the financial qualification
and identity of tenants."

The new law reaffirms the ability of landlords to conduct credit checks on
tenants.

Calderon said local ordinances such as the one proposed in Escondido left
"landlords caught."

"If they complied, they faced substantial liabilities under state federal laws,"
he said. "If they didn't, then they're subject to local penalties."

Immigrant groups across the state supported AB 976.

"It protects tenants from discrimination for the way they look or how they
sound," said Isabel Alegria, a spokeswoman for the Oakland-based California
Immigrant Policy Center.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 12, 2007 Friday

Legal status of tenants shielded

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 560 words


As cities across the country grapple with illegal immigration, Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger signed a new state law Wednesday that prohibits county and
municipal governments in California from enacting local laws that would require
landlords to ask a tenant's immigration status.

California may be the first state in the country to use state legislation to
deal with a growing national trend that began in 2006 when the city of Hazelton,
Pa., approved a city ordinance that penalized landlords for renting to illegal
immigrants.

"These ordinances are a result of a larger problem," said Francisco Castillo, a
spokesman for the governor. He cited "the failure of Congress to enact
meaningful immigration reform."

The bills' sponsor, Assemblyman Charles M. Calderon, D-City of Industry, and
leaders of a state association of apartment owners hailed the new law, which
takes effect on Jan. 1, as a civil rights victory.

"It's important legislation because it's the beginning of a trend we're seeing
throughout the country as cities begin to try to establish their own foreign
policies," Calderon said.

"Only the federal government can do that," he said. "It's important that we
don't have vigilante justice."

The Concerned Women for America, a Christian women's group, opposed AB 976. In
legislative documents, the group said that cities and municipalities are trying
to use local ordinances to deal with illegal immigration "and prevent squalor
that is dangerous not only to the individuals involved, but also to the
surrounding neighborhoods where sanitation, parking and other troubles ensue."

A national spokeswoman for the group did not return a telephone message.

The American Civil Liberties Union, labor unions, immigrant advocacy groups and
landlord groups pushed for the bill, AB 976, after the city of Escondido passed
an ordinance last year that prohibited landlords from renting to illegal
immigrants and imposed penalties when landlords failed to check on the
immigration status of prospective tenants.

Civil rights groups successfully challenged the ordinance in federal court,
arguing that it would lead to discrimination of immigrants seeking housing and
turn landlords into immigration police.

The Escondido ordinance was later rescinded.

A federal lawsuit on the Hazelton, Pa., case is pending.

Such local ordinances put landlords "between a rock and a hard place," said Ron
Kingston, a lobbyist for the landlord group, Apartment Association of California
Southern Cities.

"We needed to be assured that our landlords were not going to become de facto
immigration police," Kingston said. "We needed confirmation that our landlords
and managers can receive information to determine the financial qualification
and identity of tenants."

The new law reaffirms the ability of landlords to conduct credit checks on
tenants.

Calderon said local ordinances such as the one proposed in Escondido left
"landlords caught."

"If they complied, they faced substantial liabilities under state and federal
laws," he said. "If they didn't, then they're subject to local penalties."

Immigrant groups across the state supported AB 976.

"It protects tenants from discrimination for the way they look or how they
sound," said Isabel Alegria, a spokeswoman for the Oakland-based California
Immigrant Policy Center.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday

Study says immigrant workers help wages;
NATIVE WORKFORCE FREED FOR HIGHER-PAYING JOBS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words


The influx of immigrants to California raised the wages of some native-born
workers in the state, according to a report released Tuesday by the Public
Policy Institute of California that refutes common public perception and
previous studies on the subject.

The new report, which analyzes wage and employment data, finds that some
better-educated workers -- with at least a high school diploma -- saw wage
increases ranging from 3 to 7 percent between 1990 and 2004, a period when the
state experienced record influx of immigrants.

Rather than compete with native workers, immigrants ``complement'' some work
sectors -- agriculture and construction for example -- by helping native workers
who have the language and local networking skills to ascend to better-paying
supervisory and managerial jobs. The influx of cheap labor, the report said,
allows companies in some labor markets to expand jobs in management and
training.

``There are some types of tasks and jobs, that as immigrants come in, they
preferentially take because they're good at those, and that frees up native
workers for the better-paying jobs,'' said Giovanni Peri, who analyzed U.S.
Census wage and employment data.

The real losers among low-skilled workers in California, the report said, are
other immigrants who compete for those same low-end jobs, experiencing
significant wage declines. During the same period, foreign-born workers suffered
an average wage decline of 13 to 20 percent.

Written by Peri, an associate professor of economics at the University of
California-Davis, the report is the first to detail the effect of immigrants on
employment and wages of native Californians. Yet, he concedes, it's unlikely to
settle the contentious national debate among economists and policy-makers.

There are some who say immigrants take jobs from native workers and depress
wages. Others contend that in the long term, the negative effect on wages of a
small sector of low-skilled, low-educated workers is small to negligible.

In the Public Policy Institute of California study, Peri used data from 1960 to
2004 and estimated wage gains and losses in percentages. In the end, he refuted
a commonly held assumption that a growing immigrant labor force displaces native
workers.

For the past four decades, the number of California's foreign-born workers has
grown steadily. In 1960, fewer than one in 10 state workers were foreign-born.
In 2004, the latest data analyzed by Peri, one-third of California's workforce,
or about 5.4 million workers, was foreign-born.

Gordon Hanson, director of the Center on Pacific Economies at the University of
San Diego, who has conducted studies on immigration and the labor force, said he
disagrees with Peri's finding that ``immigrants are just hurting themselves.''

Citing a 2003 study by Harvard University economist George Borjas, Hanson said
it's well-established that immigration has hurt low-skilled native workers.

Outside California, in regions with growing immigrant populations, researchers
have documented the negative effect of the influx of immigrants on the native
labor force, said Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C., a national group that advocates for
limits to legal immigration.

``The problem is California is not America,'' Camarota said. ``There are drywall
installers, taxi drivers, nannies, busboys, cooks and bakers in other parts of
the country. Natives do those jobs in those other places.''

``You can't gain much insight by looking at one location,'' Camarota said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercury news.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday

H1B visa window opens

BYLINE: Nicole C. Wong, Mercury News

LENGTH: 646 words


Tech companies have been scrambling for months to finish government forms and
beat what may be their most intense postmark pressure of the year. It's not the
April 17 tax deadline, but the April 2 start of the window to apply for coveted
-- and contentious -- H-1B worker visas.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency will process petitions for
specially-skilled foreign workers on a first-come, first-served basis starting
Monday. There are 85,000 visas available for the 2008 fiscal year, of which
20,000 are set aside for workers who hold a U.S. master's or doctorate degree.
There are additional visas available for workers in higher education, nonprofits
and government research. Last year the cap was reached in June.

Hewlett-Packard mailed its applications Friday.

``Having worked for several months to identify workers for whom we'll need to
secure H-1B status, we are as prepared as we can be,'' said Leslie Nicolett,
HP's immigration policy manager, in a statement.

Silicon Valley companies have lobbied Congress to increase the number of H-1B
visas doled out each year, arguing their innovative edge is at risk when they're
unable to fill job openings.

However, unemployed tech workers and grassroots organizations assert there are
enough talented American workers ready to fill those slots -- but they're not
willing to accept the lower wages that companies can pay immigrants.

``The PR people are preying on Americans' fear,'' said Norman Matloff, a
professor of computer science at the University of California at Davis who's
critical of H-1B visas, speaking of the tech industry's purported concern about
the loss of innovation. ``Just like we lost the electronics and manufacturing
industries, the fear is we'll lose the tech industry as well.''

The Immigration Act of 1990 set the H-1B visa cap at 65,000 to help U.S.
employers hire skilled foreign workers while protecting employment prospects for
Americans. Applications first bumped against that limit in 1997 due to ``the
buregoning technology sector,'' according to agency spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.
The cap was raised during the tech boom and bust years, but fell back to 65,000
in 2004.

The government does not release data on how many H-1B visas individual companies
receive, and Silicon Valley's major tech companies declined to disclose how many
they want or obtained. But several Web sites have posted lists showing Intel,
Oracle and Cisco Systems among the top 20 sponsors of H-1B visas in recent
years.

Intel and Oracle couldn't find spokespeople to comment Friday. Cisco spokeswoman
Robyn Jenkins-Blum said in an email that the company's position ``is to recruit
and hire the best and most qualified individual for the position.''

But Gene Nelson, an unemployed 55-year-old veteran of the information technology
industry, said because of H-1B visas, ``We're just not getting a crack at the
these jobs.''

Nelson holds a doctorate degree in biophysics. His most recent stint of
employment, which ended in December, was as a seasonal worker at a winery, where
he earned $12 an hour.

``The bottom line is these are good American jobs that aren't going to
Americans,'' he said.

But tech companies say some of their specialized positions can't be filled by
any American worker with the right degree and technical skills.

And the ``insufficient number of visas'' creates problems when a company can't
hire even a handful of workers, said Lowell Sachs, Sun Microsystems' senior
manager for federal government affairs. ``You're going to start losing your edge
compared to competition.''

As a result, Sun pushes managers to anticipate more than a year in advance who
they'll want to hire.

``That's not great for a company to do,'' Sachs said. ``There are always new
developments coming up that you need to be able to jump on top of quickly.''

Contact Nicole C. Wong at nwong@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5730.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

Chung: Green card cutback would hurt valley

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Local; News

LENGTH: 609 words


Srinivas Yerra sits outside the Starbucks at Westgate Shopping Center,
explaining to me his options, as the Senate undertakes debate on the massive
immigration bill. Buried in the nearly 400-page document may be his fate.

The current system, for him, is not working well. The provisions in the proposed
bill, however, could mean that after nine years here, his green card application
is for naught.

"Every week or month I wonder if I should just pack my bags and go," said Yerra,
31, a baby-faced software engineer from the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh,
where information technology and biotech is starting to rise alongside the
state's agricultural base. "The last six months have been like that."

Yerra is one of about 500,000 legal immigrants, many H-1B visa holders, mired in
backlogs at various points of the three-part green card application process.
Amid the heat of the immigration debate, a group of frustrated, highly educated
workers are advocating on their own behalf. Many stand to lose if reform is not
smartly crafted. So does American competitiveness.

Furloughing talent

From a group of seven in December 2005, Immigration Voice - a non-profit
organization for high-skilled foreign workers - has grown to more than 12,000
across the country. They have been navigating the legislative and political
minefield hoping to clear the backlogs and win some relief.

In Silicon Valley, they are primarily Indian and Chinese engineers, but they are
also doctors, architects, financial professionals and former CEOs, said Pratik
Dakwala, a local Immigration Voice leader and a San Jose business consultant.

Yerra is an applications software engineer, building the kind of software for
data centers that nearly every company needs, from Barnes & Noble to eBay.

His work has taken him from Chicago to Boston to San Jose. But each time he
moved, he had to start the green card application over again. The peculiarities
of the process, involving one's employer, the U.S. Labor Department and the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service, mean H-1B visa holders must stay frozen in
position for their application to stay alive.

They may not take a promotion or go to a new company without starting over. The
wait can take up to eight years because of the backlog in green cards available
to people who have met the requirements. Many are stuck in the Labor
Department's optimistically named "Backlog Elimination Center." Spouses, like
Yerra's doctor wife, cannot work until he has his green card.

Choosing America

The backlogs occur because green cards are capped at 140,000 annually for the
employment-based visa category. The current proposal would cap it at 90,000,
then simply disallow some backlogged applications like Yerra's. Immigration
Voice hopes to stop this, and tweak the current law, to make the green card
slots allocated by the country flexible and allow people to keep their
applications in play, even with job changes.

"Unfortunately, America's immigration policies are driving away the world's best
and brightest precisely when we need them most," Bill Gates told a Senate
committee in March.

Yerra went job hunting in India in 2002, and concluded there were many things he
could learn better here. Like others, he hopes to start a company in America -
and leverage his bi-cultural, multi-lingual abilities to sell globally, perhaps
to India.

Maybe Congress can take away Yerra's hopes for his green card - and all he may
contribute to our economy. But it won't take away what he has learned. That's
portable, all the way to India.

Is that really what we want?

See www.immigrationvoice.org. Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or
(408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

Takahashi: Some second thoughts on H-1B visa program

BYLINE: By Dean Takahashi Mercury News

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Business; Columnists; Columnists

LENGTH: 810 words


My May 24 column favoring an expansion of the H-1B skilled worker visa program
struck some readers as too one-sided.

In the column, I sympathized with the woes of Seth Sternberg, chief executive of
Web instant messenger company Meebo in Mountain View, about how tough a time he
had finding qualified tech workers for his business. He had turned to the H-1B
skilled worker program to hire two employees and groaned about the red tape in
the system.

Convinced that immigrants have been key to Silicon Valley's success, I suggested
we expand the program.

A couple of dozen heated responses from folks around the country reconfirmed to
me that immigration is a hot button issue as lawmakers continue to debate
legislation.

Steve Landess, a 55-year-old tech worker in Austin, wrote that he hoped that I
will be replaced soon by an H-1B journalist.

Landess and other H-1B opponents say there are loopholes in the program and
enforcement failures that allow companies to use the program's low-paid
immigrants to take jobs that could otherwise go to Americans.

A video that surfaced on YouTube this month showed that some over-eager
immigration lawyers have been encouraging companies to exploit the H-1B
loopholes in order to hire low-cost immigrant labor.

Critics of H-1B say the video helps explain why older Americans have such a hard
time finding jobs, even amid the current job boom in Silicon Valley, where tech
companies are complaining of extreme shortages of engineers. And the critics
note that wages have been fairly stagnant in some tech professions, even as
employers decry shortages.

I do, in fact, have an older friend in his 50s who had to look for a couple of
years here to find a job and then lost it via a merger in January and is now
looking again. That's a sad commentary on the lack of opportunities for older
tech workers in the current tech boom.

I still believe bureaucratic immigration policies will hurt the competitiveness
of American companies in an era of globalization. With the "flattening of the
world" described in Thomas Friedman's "The World is Flat," everyone here should
realize they have to choose their specialties wisely to avoid being replaced by
low-cost workers elsewhere. And immigrants in general have been a godsend to the
American technology industry.

At the same time, I'm in favor of improving enforcement so that the H-1B program
isn't simply an instrument for those seeking low-cost labor.

Some readers doubted that Sternberg had tried very hard to find talent for his
Web instant messenger company in the United States before he turned to foreign
talent needing H-1B visas to work here.

Norm Matloff, a professor of computer science at the University of
California-Davis, looked up Meebo's paperwork and found the company declared the
prevailing wage for its H-1B hires was $69,700, which Matloff said was half the
rate top people get in the valley. Matloff says several studies have shown H-1B
visa holders are paid low wages, a fact that belies the notion that in a true
shortage these H-1Bs would logically be paid higher. Matloff believes Congress
should fix the loopholes that enable companies to skirt the intent of the law.

Sternberg insists he pays his two H-1B workers exactly the same as his other
workers. On the same form Matloff examined, Sternberg said Meebo expected to pay
the H-1B workers $75,000 to $125,000. And Sternberg, 28, said he does have at
least one older employee in his ranks. That person does meet Sternberg's
requirement of hiring "energetic" people, he said.

My previous column noted that the number of H-1Bs admitted each year is only
0.07 percent of the American workforce. But Ron Hira, author of "Outsourcing
America" and assistant professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute of
Technology, said it would be more accurate to compare the 65,000 H-1B visas
granted each year to the population of information technology workers and the
growth of jobs in that sector.

By Hira's calculation, H-1Bs in the United States add up to 8 to 10 percent of
the IT worker population. Those numbers held up high even in 2002 and 2003,
years of steep layoffs in the tech industry. Hira also points out that most of
the top 20 H-1B employers are offshore outsourcing firms - companies that
presumably aren't hiring the best and brightest talent but rather the cheapest.

Ultimately, statistics can be selectively chosen to make either side's case look
better.

I did get a couple of responses that favored the program. Vinod Dham said he
came to the United States on a student visa in 1975 with $20 in his pocket. He
later led the development of Intel's Pentium microprocessor and is now a venture
capitalist.

"I'm all for creating a fair process, one that allows bright people to come here
and bring their families as well," Dham said.

Contact Dean Takahashi at dtakahashi@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5739.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 389 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

Skilled workers may ask

for green cards after all

The government did an about-face Tuesday and announced it is accepting
applications for green cards filed by skilled immigrant workers.

Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of the Homeland Security
Department, said it will accept the applications through Aug. 17. Applications
already filed, which the agency planned to reject, also will be accepted.

In June, the State Department said all eligible skilled workers could submit
applications to become legal residents. But on July 2, it said the 60,000
available slots were no longer available because Citizenship and Immigration
Services had suddenly reduced its backlog of applications.

The about-face resolves an immigration embarrassment that angered members of
Congress and outraged workers and employers. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, had
planned to hold a hearing.

VA chief quits in wake

of scandal on vets care

Veterans Administration Secretary Jim Nicholson abruptly resigned Tuesday after
months of the Bush administration struggling to defend charges of shoddy
treatment for veterans injured in Iraq.

Nicholson, a former Republican National Committee chairman and a Vietnam
veteran, was picked by President Bush to head the VA in 2005. He plans to return
to the private sector no later than Oct. 1.

Nicholson, 69, is the latest in a line of senior officials to resign in the
final 1 1/2 years of the Bush administration.

His resignation comes amid intense political and public scrutiny of the Pentagon
and VA following reports of shoddy outpatient care of injured troops and
veterans at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and elsewhere.

GEORGIA

High level of steroid

in pro wrestler's body

Pro wrestler Chris Benoit had more than 10 times the normal level of
testosterone in his system when he hanged himself in his home after killing his
wife and son last month.

Test results released Tuesday didn't answer speculation that the steroid might
have led Benoit to commit the crimes. Some experts believe steroids can cause
paranoia, depression and violent outbursts.

Dr. Kris Sperry, Georgia's top medical examiner, said authorities will never
know whether steroids could have caused the outburst. Benoit strangled his wife,
suffocated 7-year-old Daniel, and then hanged himself on June 22.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday

Farmers fear shortage of workers;
CROPS COULD BE CUT FURTHER AS BORDER, TRAVEL RULES TIGHTEN

BYLINE: Julia Scott, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words


The handful of laborers harvesting leeks in Pescadero farmer Joe Muzzi's field
are all that's left of the seasonal work force he depends on to tend to his
crops every year.

Twenty other men have gone home to Mexico, as usual, for the winter. This time,
however, they left Muzzi wondering how many would return this spring.

``The thing that we're worried about is will they be able to come back?'' said
Muzzi.

As the land prepares to hibernate, other coastside farmers are wondering the
same thing: What will a stepped-up border patrol and a new set of passport
requirements for the U.S.-Mexico border mean for their workforce come
springtime. Existing labor shortages already forced Muzzi to cut back 15 percent
of his crops this year.

Local undocumented migrant workers take a gamble every year as they cross back
into Mexico to visit the families they support by working in the fields and
flower nurseries of San Mateo County. As border enforcement tightens on the
ground, a new Department of Homeland Security requirement for a passport to
board flights into the United States may present even more complications for
field workers on their way back to a guaranteed job in this country.

``These are people who come back year after year because they have good jobs and
a community here,'' said Kerry Lobel, interim executive director of Puente de la
Costa Sur, a migrant worker resource center in Pescadero.

``Their family depends on them,'' she added. ``If you can't get back, your
family's going to starve.''

The stakes are high for farmers, too. Muzzi estimated that 75 percent of his
peak workforce of 50 men is composed of seasonal workers; 25 percent of those
workers are new faces every year. Muzzi said he was prepared to cut his crops
back another 15 percent this year if necessary.

``Last year, we were five or six men short, but this year we'll be 10 or 15,''
said Muzzi. He also is looking into the possibility of buying a machine to
harvest his Brussels sprouts.

Statewide, the agricultural industry has become heavily dependent on seasonal
workers, whose numbers grew from 136,000 in 1974 to more than 201,000 in 2002,
an increase of 48 percent, according to the National Agricultural Statistics
Service. In 2003-2004, the National Agricultural Workers Survey for California
showed, only 20 percent of field workers said they worked for their employer
year-round.

For years, B.J. Burns has hired 10 workers a year to help him plant, maintain
and harvest his cut flowers and pumpkins at Bianchi Farms in Pescadero. Seven of
those workers have returned home for the winter. Shorthanded during the peak
harvest this past summer, Burns said he had to borrow a few part-time workers
from the local nurseries.

``We have no source of workforce other than the ones who are coming here,'' said
Burns, sitting in his office. ``I don't know what's going to happen. I've just
got a feeling we're going to lose workers in '07,'' he said. ``That means you're
either going to cut your crops back or lose them.''

Fewer workers also means more competition for laborers across the spectrum.
Muzzi pays his workers an hourly wage of $7.50 to $10.50 with free housing, but
says he can't compete with salaries of up to $15 an hour offered to workers on
construction projects.

Paying top dollar

``If we get to the point where we're planting less and less, we get to the point
where we don't attract labor. Nowadays, you have to pay top dollar and have work
there every day,'' said Muzzi. ``And if we have to cut back, the consumer will
be paying more.''

Carlos Ponce, 23, has worked in the fields of Pescadero for two years without
returning to his home state of Jalisco to visit his parents and five brothers
and sisters. He said he intends to visit them next December. Until then, he'll
continue working in town.

``I'm staying to make money,'' said Ponce, taking a break from work in
leek-stained yellow overalls. ``It's really hard to come back.''

Pescadero is pretty quiet these days. Few laborers are seen riding their
bicycles through town or standing in front of the taqueria together as they do
in summertime.

Lobel wonders how many of them will reappear.

``People are going where there's jobs and housing and where there's more
perceived access to community life,'' she said.

Meanwhile, Puente de la Costa Sur has been altering its outreach to support an
emerging population of workers and their families who have chosen to stay in
Pescadero over the long term to avoid the risk of losing their housing or
employment.

Local farmers aren't the only ones who suffer when the migrant workers, who
double Pescadero's population of 1,500 in the summer, are absent. The town's gas
station, taqueria and only grocery store are dependent on them, too.

No school, no town

``The truth is, we need the Mexicans here in town,'' said Catherine Peery, chair
of the Pescadero Municipal Advisory Council. ``Children of farm workers make up
60 percent or more of our school district's population. Without them we wouldn't
have a school, and without a school we wouldn't have a town.''

As more coastside farmers cut back their operations, Lobel predicted
agricultural laborers would eventually choose large-scale productions over
operations like Muzzi's.

``In the short term there's a labor shortage, but in the long term, family farms
that are hiring workers are not sustainable. That's the majority of the farms in
Pescadero,'' said Lobel. ``It will be a different place when that whole part of
our social fabric is gone.''

Contact Julia Scott at (650) 348-4340 or jscott@angnewspapers.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday

Farmers fear shortage of workers;
CROPS COULD BE CUT FURTHER AS BORDER, TRAVEL RULES TIGHTEN

BYLINE: Julia Scott, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 736 words


The handful of laborers harvesting leeks in Pescadero farmer Joe Muzzi's field
are all that's left of the seasonal work force he depends on to tend to his
crops every year.

Twenty other men have gone home to Mexico, as usual, for the winter. This time,
however, they left Muzzi wondering how many would return this spring.

``The thing that we're worried about is will they be able to come back?'' said
Muzzi.

As the land prepares to hibernate, other coastside farmers are wondering the
same thing: What will a stepped-up border patrol and a new set of passport
requirements for the U.S.-Mexico border mean for their work force come
springtime. Existing labor shortages already forced Muzzi to cut back 15 percent
of his crops this year.

Local undocumented migrant workers take a gamble every year as they cross back
into Mexico to visit the families they support by working in the fields and
flower nurseries of San Mateo County. As border enforcement tightens on the
ground, a new Department of Homeland Security requirement for a passport to
board flights into the United States may present even more complications for
field workers on their way back to a guaranteed job in this country.

``These are people who come back year after year because they have good jobs and
a community here,'' said Kerry Lobel, interim executive director of Puente de la
Costa Sur, a migrant worker resource center in Pescadero.

``Their family depends on them,'' she added. ``If you can't get back, your
family's going to starve.''

The stakes are high for farmers, too. Muzzi estimated that 75 percent of his
peak work force of 50 men is composed of seasonal workers; 25 percent of those
workers are new faces every year. Muzzi said he was prepared to cut his crops
back another 15 percent this year if necessary.

``Last year, we were five or six men short, but this year we'll be 10 or 15,''
said Muzzi. He also is looking into the possibility of buying a machine to
harvest his Brussels sprouts.

Statewide, the agricultural industry has become heavily dependent on seasonal
workers, whose numbers grew from 136,000 in 1974 to more than 201,000 in 2002,
an increase of 48 percent, according to the National Agricultural Statistics
Service. In 2003-2004, the National Agricultural Workers Survey for California
showed, only 20 percent of field workers said they worked for their employer
year-round.

For years, B.J. Burns has hired 10 workers a year to help him plant, maintain
and harvest his cut flowers and pumpkins at Bianchi Farms in Pescadero. Seven of
those workers have returned home for the winter. Short-handed during the peak
harvest this past summer, Burns said he had to borrow a few part-time workers
from the local nurseries.

``We have no source of work force other than the ones who are coming here,''
said Burns, sitting in his office. ``I don't know what's going to happen. I've
just got a feeling we're going to lose workers in '07,'' he said. ``That means
you're either going to cut your crops back or lose them.''

Fewer workers also means more competition for laborers across the spectrum.
Muzzi pays his workers an hourly wage of $7.50 to $10.50 with free housing, but
says he can't compete with salaries of up to $15 an hour offered to workers on
construction projects.

``If we get to the point where we're planting less and less, we get to the point
where we don't attract labor. Nowadays, you have to pay top dollar and have work
there every day,'' said Muzzi. ``And if we have to cut back, the consumer will
be paying more.''

Carlos Ponce, 23, has worked in the fields of Pescadero for two years without
returning to his home state of Jalisco to visit his parents and five brothers
and sisters. He said he intends to visit them next December. Until then, he'll
continue working in town.

``I'm staying to make money,'' said Ponce, taking a break from work in
leek-stained yellow overalls. ``It's really hard to come back.''

As more coastside farmers cut back their operations, Lobel predicted
agricultural laborers would eventually choose large-scale productions over
operations like Muzzi's.

``In the short term there's a labor shortage, but in the long term, family farms
that are hiring workers are not sustainable. That's the majority of the farms in
Pescadero,'' said Lobel. ``It will be a different place when that whole part of
our social fabric is gone.''

Contact Julia Scott at (650) 348-4340 or jscott@angnewspapers.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

Bush's illegal worker plan has holes

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olveraand Lisa Friedman MediaNews

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 916 words


A week after unveiling a major crackdown on businesses that hire illegal
immigrants, the Bush administration is now conceding that its most heavily
touted weapon in pursuing employers - an assault against Social Security fraud -
will be nearly useless.

That's because when the Social Security Administration warns employers about
bogus identification numbers, it remains barred from also alerting the
Department of Homeland Security, the agency that's supposed to hand out
penalties.

In addition, federal promises to hold companies responsible for hiring illegal
immigrants could potentially be stymied by several other issues: Employers are
still not required to check a new employee's Social Security number against a
free federal database; there could be long gaps between when an employee is
hired and when the warnings are issued each year; and there is no way to follow
up on employees who have been fired. In many cases, illegal workers could still
hop from job to job without being caught.

The only way authorities can punish an employer - with fines or criminal charges
- is if someone first tips them off about potential fraud and then, during the
course of the investigation, they discover evidence that Social Security
warnings have been ignored.

"There are a number of people who do come forward and tell us an employer is not
conforming with the law," said Veronica Valdez, a spokeswoman for the Department
of Homeland Security. "While we don't get information directly from the Social
Security Administration, we do see that we get a lot of tips."

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the department's investigative
branch, will aggressively work off such tips - using, among other tactics, raids
- with an eye for those who are knowingly hiring illegal immigrants, ICE
spokeswoman Virginia Kice said.

Although immigration authorities and some lawmakers say the enforcement may make
a difference, those who have been up in arms over the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants living in the country say they feel bamboozled.

`I don't believe it'

Jeff Wilson, a Bay Area resident clamoring for tougher immigration enforcement,
was skeptical when he heard last week about the boosted enforcement, which calls
for higher fines for employers who don't fire employees within 90 days if the
workers are caught using bogus Social Security numbers.

"When I hear about anything the Bush administration is going to do, I don't
believe it," said Wilson, who operates an anti-illegal-immigration Web site. "I
think it was simply to look good. I believe in action - not words."

Advocates for immigrant rights also have taken issue with the crackdown, calling
it a "scare tactic" to encourage people to return to their home countries or
risk being found out by their employers.

"A lot of people may not think it's not worth staying here," said Salvador
Bustamante, Northern California director of Strengthening Our Lives, which
encourages civic participation among immigrants. "I think it's just a scare
tactic."

Within the next few weeks, the Social Security Administration nationally will
send out about 140,000 warnings - or so-called "no match" letters - to
businesses with at least 10 employees whose numbers can't be verified. About
35,000 of those will go to employers in California.

The envelopes will include a separate letter from the Department Homeland
Security informing companies that they may be in violation of immigration law
and have 90 days to verify the employees' identities.

If they do not, the letter warns, the agency may "determine that you have
violated the law by knowingly continuing to employ an unauthorized person." A
first-offense fine was increased to $2,200 for each employee.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced that the agency will
clamp down on employers who knowingly and willfully violate the law. Left
untouched, however, was Section 6103 of the IRS code - a privacy provision the
government has long interpreted to mean that the Social Security Administration
is forbidden from sharing tax information with other agencies.

Attempted fix

Several members of Congress, including Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Thousand Oaks,
have tried to amend the provision. Most recently the failed Senate immigration
bill, which also would have granted eventual citizenship to millions of illegal
immigrants, sought to fix it.

"It would make it a lot easier," Valdez said.

Still, leaders of California industries that rely heavily on illegal labor, like
agriculture and restaurants, say they aren't taking any chances. Trade groups
that represent the sectors said they have strongly recommended that employers
follow the new rules, regardless of the government's ability to trace its own
threats.

"This is another tool in their kit," said John Gay, top lobbyist for the
National Restaurant Association. The group represents about 1.4 million
estimated employees in California, though it claims not to know how many are
illegal immigrants. "It's easier to establish a violation with these rules."

Tom Nassif, president of the Western Growers Association, said he believes the
new rules will cripple California's $32 billion agricultural industry. About 70
percent of the state's estimated 450,000 farm workers during the peak harvest
season are illegal immigrants, and Nassif believes most if not all will be fired
by fearful employers.

"With that dramatic a loss, I think people stop producing," he said.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday

Bush sees new chance on immigration reform;
HE HOPES TO FIND COMMON GROUND WITH DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 463 words


President Bush said Wednesday that prospects for overhauling immigration laws
have improved with the Democratic gains in the midterm election, holding out the
hope of bipartisan cooperation.

``I think we have a good chance,'' Bush said at a news conference. ``It's a
vital issue . . . on which we can find some common ground with Democrats.''

Yet some observers warn that rewriting immigration law with Democrats in control
of the House -- and possibly the Senate -- may be no easier than it was with
Republicans in power.

They say emboldened Democrats may try to push for a bill that gives more to
immigrants, prompting strong opposition from lawmakers who favor a tougher line.
They added that splits within the Democratic Party over immigration could
complicate the matter.

``Comprehensive reform will take a bipartisan solution, and that's true
regardless of who is in power,'' said Ed Goeas, president of the Tarrance Group,
a Republican strategy company.

``There's a weakness in the African-American community on the immigration
issue,'' he said, adding that blacks, a traditionally Democratic group, are at
odds with Latinos, another Democratic bloc, over support for overhauling
immigration law.

He also said many Democrats running in conservative districts echoed Republicans
by calling for tough enforcement.

In Pennsylvania House races, Democrats Patrick Murphy and Chris Carney won after
campaigns in which they accused the GOP of being soft on illegal immigration.
Claire McCaskill, the Democratic senator-elect from Missouri, also took a tough
line.

``Let's be honest, there are divisions within the Democrats, it will have to be
bipartisan,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration
Forum, an advocacy group that supports immigrants' rights. ``Chances go up, but
it's still at best 50-50.''

Many House Republicans based part of their re-election campaigns on opposition
to immigration policies that Bush and many Democrats strongly support, including
a guest worker program and a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

That hard-line stance failed to rally voters or turn tight races, even in border
states where immigration is a major issue.

Incumbents such as Rep. J.D. Hayworth, R-Ariz., Rep. John Hostettler, R-Ind.,
and Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., all lost, as did Randy Graf, a GOP House
candidate from Arizona, who co-founded the Minuteman Project border patrol
group.

Those failures could help Bush within his own party.

``The myth that members of Congress need to be afraid of immigration might have
been put to rest because no member of Congress was punished in this election for
supporting pro-immigrant legislation,'' said Josh Bernstein, federal policy
director of the National Immigration Law Center, another immigrant advocacy
group.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday

Leaders call for migrant reform;
BAY AREA ADVOCATES PIN 2007 HOPES ON NEW CONGRESS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 398 words


A group of Bay Area civic and religious leaders, arms linked and chanting ``Let
us build bridges,'' called Wednesday on the new Democrat-controlled U.S.
Congress to push for immigration reform.

``It's a new time,'' said attorney Mark Silverman, of the Immigrant Legal
Resource Center in San Francisco, during a news conference Wednesday. He joined
20 other leaders from the Catholic Campaign for Immigration Reform, People
Acting in Community Together and other groups on the steps of the Cathedral
Basilica of St. Joseph in downtown San Jose.

After the divisive immigration reform debate that gripped the country during the
summer and inspired massive street protests by immigrants, religious leaders
said they will continue to push for reform.

``We're not content that a wall is the solution to a broken immigration
system,'' said the Rev. Jon Pedigo, director of the Bay Area's Catholic Campaign
for Immigration Reform, referring to the 700-mile fence President George Bush
wants built on the border of Mexico and the United States.

The national campaign, led by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, was
critical in mobilizing millions of immigrants and their advocates during street
protests in the spring and summer.

The House of Representatives voted and approved a bill that focused on border
security, while the Senate proposed a bill that would give some illegal
immigrants a chance to legalize their status, and a path to citizenship. Without
a compromise bill, split largely along party lines, no reform legislation was
reached.

But after midterm elections that resulted in Democrats capturing majorities in
both the House and Senate, ``we have a real opportunity'' to push for
legislative reform that addresses the enforcement of the country's immigration
laws, but also find a humanitarian solution to illegal immigration, Silverman
said.

National groups such as the Federation for Immigration Reform opposed any
legislation that would give illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

At the news conference, Pedigo and other immigrant advocates said they hope that
when the new congress convenes in January, members will consider taking up
immigration reform.

``As we celebrate Thanksgiving,'' Pedigo said, ``it's our collective prayer that
the new congress will work on comprehensive immigration reform.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 1, 2006 Friday

Lucky they're already citizens;
QUESTIONS ON NEW PILOT TEST STUMP SOME LOCAL EXPERTS

BYLINE: Dan Reed, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words


Some immigrants who want to become Americans will be given a new, more detailed
test next year, one designed to gauge not just their memorization skills, but
also a broader sense of their knowledge of government and history.

For citizens who slacked off in high school history class, be glad you were born
here.

The Mercury News asked five experts in immigration, law and government to take a
swipe at a few of the new questions released Thursday by the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Service. Wrong answers for volunteer testers did not risk them
deportation -- just public shame and humiliation.

The 144 new questions and answers -- some similar to the ones already asked,
some more nuanced -- will be administered early next year in 10 cities, none in
California. Officials will fine-tune the results, then use the test nationally
in spring 2008. Six of 10 is a passing grade.

So let's meet our panelists:

Gerald Uelmen, a Santa Clara University law professor and member of O.J.
Simpson's ``dream team'';

San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis;

San Jose Mayor-elect Chuck Reed;

Fremont immigration attorney Shah Peerally;

Carl Braun, state director of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, a group that
patrols the border to keep out illegal immigrants.

Just about everyone knew the U.S. Constitution was the supreme law of the land,
although Davis and Peerally quibbled that the U.S. Supreme Court could be the
correct answer, because it has the final say on what the Constitution means.

In its wisdom, the Mercury News accepted either answer.

Tougher was a query about how many times the Constitution has been amended.
Correct answers? one.

``You've got to be kidding me!'' Davis said. ``This is what they're asking
people?''

Peerally nailed it: 27. Uelmen and Braun guessed 26. Reed said 23, which is
surprising, because he actually carries a copy of the Constitution in his
briefcase.

``I should have'' checked it, Reed said, ``before I answered.''

Everyone knew Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence, although
Peerally at first offered national-anthem writer Francis Scott Key, then said,
``no, the other guy.''

Braun, the anti-illegal immigrant crusader, muffed a couple in a row. For the
number of voting members in the House of Representatives, he said, ``498,
something like that,'' instead of the correct 435. And on the age one has to
attain to become president, he said, ``40,'' then changed it to ``45.'' The
correct answer is 35.

The others mostly answered both questions correctly.

After acing the legal stuff, things went south fast for Peerally, who became a
citizen only last year.

What group of essays supported passage of the U.S. Constitution? Peerally had no
clue, not even a guess. Everyone else correctly answered, ``The Federalist
Papers,'' although Braun took a pass and asked to come back to that one later.
When asked again, he answered correctly -- and swore he didn't quickly Google
the answer.

Everyone but Peerally knew that Susan B. Anthony fought for women's rights, and
some, including Davis, noted she also adorned a much-maligned dollar coin.

And everyone except Peerally also knew that Dwight Eisenhower was the World War
II general who later became president.

In the end, Peerally cheerfully summed up his failings.

``When it comes to the questions,'' he said, ``I don't learn them. I make my
clients learn them.''

Contact Dan Reed at dreed@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5771.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 1, 2006 Friday

Lucky they're already citizens;
QUESTIONS ON NEW PILOT TEST STUMP SOME LOCAL EXPERTS

BYLINE: Dan Reed, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words


Some immigrants who want to become Americans will be given a new, more detailed
test next year, one designed to gauge not just their memorization skills, but
also a broader sense of their knowledge of government and history.

For citizens who slacked off in high school history class, be glad you were born
here.

The Mercury News asked five experts in immigration, law and government to take a
swipe at a few of the new questions released Thursday by the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Service. Wrong answers for volunteer testers did not risk them
deportation -- just public shame and humiliation.

The 144 new questions and answers -- some similar to the ones already asked,
some more nuanced -- will be administered early next year in 10 cities, none in
California. Officials will fine-tune the results, then use the test nationally
in spring 2008. Six of 10 is a passing grade.

So let's meet our panelists:

Gerald Uelmen, a Santa Clara University law professor and member of O.J.
Simpson's ``dream team'';

San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis;

San Jose Mayor-elect Chuck Reed;

Fremont immigration attorney Shah Peerally;

Carl Braun, state director of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, a group that
patrols the border to keep out illegal immigrants.

Just about everyone knew the U.S. Constitution was the supreme law of the land,
although Davis and Peerally quibbled that the U.S. Supreme Court could be the
correct answer, because it has the final say on what the Constitution means.

In its wisdom, the Mercury News accepted either answer.

Tougher was a query about how many times the Constitution has been amended.
Correct answers? one.

``You've got to be kidding me!'' Davis said. ``This is what they're asking
people?''

Peerally nailed it: 27. Uelmen and Braun guessed 26. Reed said 23, which is
surprising, because he actually carries a copy of the Constitution in his
briefcase.

``I should have'' checked it, Reed said, ``before I answered.''

Everyone knew Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence, although
Peerally at first offered national-anthem writer Francis Scott Key, then said,
``no, the other guy.''

Braun, the anti-illegal immigrant crusader, muffed a couple in a row. For the
number of voting members in the House of Representatives, he said, ``498,
something like that,'' instead of the correct 435. And on the age one has to
attain to become president, he said, ``40,'' then changed it to ``45.'' The
correct answer is 35.

The others mostly answered both questions correctly.

After acing the legal stuff, things went south fast for Peerally, who became a
citizen only last year.

What group of essays supported passage of the U.S. Constitution? Peerally had no
clue, not even a guess. Everyone else correctly answered, ``The Federalist
Papers,'' although Braun took a pass and asked to come back to that one later.
When asked again, he answered correctly -- and swore he didn't quickly Google
the answer.

Everyone but Peerally knew that Susan B. Anthony fought for women's rights, and
some, including Davis, noted she also adorned a much-maligned dollar coin.

And everyone except Peerally also knew that Dwight Eisenhower was the World War
II general who later became president.

In the end, Peerally cheerfully summed up his failings.

``When it comes to the questions,'' he said, ``I don't learn them. I make my
clients learn them.''

Contact Dan Reed at dreed@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5771.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 18, 2006 Monday

Immigration laws unfair to everyone

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 867 words


At dawn last Tuesday, more than a thousand Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents descended on six plants owned by Swift & Co., one of the country's
largest meat processors. Some 1,300 workers were arrested, and operations at all
six slaughterhouses were suspended.

Seen in one light, the raids were perfectly justified. Both employer and
employees were breaking the law. It's a law that's being violated on a massive
scale from coast to coast, and the public is increasingly upset about it.

The only catch: Swift has been trying for years to comply with our poorly
conceived immigration laws, coping as best it could with an impossible
situation. Like a driver who finally goes through a broken traffic light, the
company and its workers aren't the problem -- the system is.

Both Swift and its employees -- who bore the brunt of the punishment -- are
caught in an economic bind far bigger than themselves. Meat processing is dirty
and dangerous. Fewer and fewer members of the increasingly educated American
workforce are interested in the jobs.

As a result, although it now pays an average of $13 an hour, or $25,000 a year,
the industry increasingly relies on foreign workers, not because they're cheap
-- $25,000 a year is what trained paramedics and college-educated kindergarten
teachers make in meatpacking states such as Iowa and Kansas -- but simply
because they'll do the work. If immigrants weren't available, companies such as
Swift would have to close, and both meatpacking and the agriculture that depends
on it -- cattle and hog producers -- would eventually move to other countries.

Not only that, but U.S. law makes the bind much worse for both employers and
employees. Despite the meatpacking industry's well-known need for foreign labor,
the United States offers virtually no way for these workers to enter the country
legally. Every year the economy as a whole creates some 500,000 more unskilled
jobs than Americans want to do, yet we issue only 5,000 year-round visas for the
immigrants who might fill them. For companies such as Swift and its workers,
there's no good answer, and it's not surprising that many break the law.

But even that isn't the end of the cruel twists of Swift's story. Far from
ignoring or shrugging off the law, the firm has been trying to comply with it.
When job applicants started showing up with what the company suspected were
false papers, it tried inquiring into their backgrounds -- only to be sued for
discrimination by the Justice Department.

When the government created a program meant to help employers verify that their
workers were in the country legally by checking Social Security numbers against
a central database, Swift was among the first to sign up. And when that program
didn't seem to be catching the worst offenders -- people using false Social
Security cards (not just stolen ones) -- Swift came to Washington to testify in
Congress about the problem. The reward: That was precisely the offense that ICE
raided the company for Tuesday.

Don't misunderstand: Swift is no band of saints. Everyone involved -- the
company, its workers, the U.S. government -- knows that the kind of compliance
required to pass muster today is a charade. But it is a charade our
dysfunctional immigration system has all but forced the firm and its workers to
play.

Does this mean it's all right to break the law? Of course not.

Our nudge-nudge, wink-wink immigration system -- unrealistic laws, all but
ignored on the ground -- must be replaced by a law enforcement regime that
works: more honest quotas, enforced to the letter, including in the workplace.
Raids such as those that took place this week would be justified in the context
of an immigration overhaul of the kind proposed by the president and passed by
the Senate last spring.

Workers need a legal way to enter the country. Businesses need a legitimate way
to get workers, plus a reliable verification system -- not unlike credit-card
verification -- to tell them which workers are legal and which aren't. And once
these things are in place, there will be no excuse for breaking the rules.

But until then, raids of the kind that occurred this week can only be
counterproductive: Companies trying to do the right thing will be driven out of
business, even as those happy to flout the law will find themselves with more of
a competitive advantage. And meanwhile, illegal workers will be driven further
underground.

I happened to be with a group of employers when the Swift raids were announced
-- not food-processing companies but contractors, landscapers, growers and
others who also count on unskilled workers -- brought together by their growing
anger at the broken immigration system and the lies it makes them tell.

``What am I supposed to do?'' one employer asked bitterly. ``I'm paying $22.50
an hour. I still can't find enough workers. I'm making less and less money as a
result -- I've stopped bidding for lots of jobs. And I could go to jail just for
trying to get the work done.''

And the sad truth is, he can't do much. Only Congress can fix the system he and
his workers are trapped in.

TAMAR JACOBY is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. She wrote this
article for the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday

Let's try again on comprehensive reform

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 804 words


We are a nation of immigrants, and a steady flow of foreigners has always made
America a better place. One out of four Californians is foreign-born. Immigrants
pay taxes, provide labor, create businesses and enrich our culture.

However, current immigration laws have serious flaws, and this is the year to
fix them.

Immigrants who seek only temporary work in this country find it difficult to get
the papers to work here legally, even when employers desperately need them.
Immigrants who want to stay -- whether for work, family or the American dream --
face an arduous, confusing legalization process. And people who cross the
borders illegally to escape desperate poverty become hopelessly mired in a
shadow world that exploits and demeans them.

President Bush deserves credit for opening the national discussion on
immigration reform in 2004, with his proposal for a guest-worker program. But
bitter dissension in Congress bogged down reform proposals.

This year presents a fresh opportunity. Some of the most rabid anti-immigrant
Republicans were tossed out by voters in November. Both parties are eager to
show voters they can make progress on major issues. And given the deteriorating
situation in Iraq, the president could use a big accomplishment to burnish his
legacy.

Any overhaul of immigration laws needs to recognize different categories of
immigrants -- not only legal and illegal, but temporary and permanent, skilled
and unskilled, those with U.S. family ties and those without. Policies need to
be tailored to each.

The key building blocks for reform are:

Guest-worker program

U.S. employers badly need low-skilled farm and service-industry workers, and
many Latin American immigrants want to come here for only a few years, earn some
money and return home. Yet the United States has no legal way to accommodate
this essential, temporary workforce. Congress should revive a provision from
last year's bipartisan Senate bill, sponsored by Massachusetts Democrat Ted
Kennedy and Arizona Republican John McCain, that would allow several hundred
thousand people to come in as guest workers every year.

More H-1B visas

Foreign technology workers are crucial to the Silicon Valley economy, and U.S.
universities aren't producing enough native science and tech graduates to meet
the demand.

Congress needs to raise the 65,000 annual cap on H-1B temporary visas for
skilled workers. But at the same time, it needs to tighten enforcement to make
sure companies aren't laying off or refusing to hire qualified U.S. workers
while paying immigrants less to do the work.

Path to legal status

Serious immigration reform has to include a way for many of the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants to become legal residents. Critics decry this as
amnesty for lawbreakers, but there is no practical way around it. Authorities
can't find and deport 12 million people.

The Kennedy-McCain bill divided illegal immigrants into three groups based on
how long they've been here, with different rules for each. Rep. Zoe Lofgren of
San Jose, incoming chair of the House immigration, border security and claims
subcommittee, thinks that approach is too complicated.

``We do have to pass something a brain-dead bureaucracy can work with,'' she
said.

A better strategy would be to sort immigrants based on how much they contribute
to the economy and society: length of employment, payment of taxes, special
skills and family ties to legal residents. Communities would benefit from
offering legal residency to those with the strongest ties and the most to offer.

People who entered the country illegally should face penalties. But deportation
-- especially breaking up families -- isn't good for them or for society. Fines
would be more effective. To reward those who did follow the rules, that money
could be used to clear the backlog of applications from legal immigrants who
clearly qualify for permanent residency or citizenship.

Border enforcement

It works. Crackdowns in California and Texas have made it much more difficult to
sneak across the border there, which is why more migrants aim for the deadly but
thinly patrolled Arizona desert.

Fencing would help in some areas, although building 700 miles of new border
fence, which Congress approved last year, isn't cost-effective.

It would be better to hire more border agents and buy tracking equipment.

Mexican authorities have to be part of the solution. For example, in Sásabe,
just across the Arizona border, Mexican agents warn migrants about the hazards
of the desert trip but don't try to stop them. President Bush should demand
better cooperation.

Immigration reform is more complicated than simply locking down the borders or
granting mass amnesty. Crafting a flexible, comprehensive law won't be easy. But
given how much immigrants contribute to our economy and society, it's worth the
effort.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Past arrests could block road to U.S. citizenship

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 593 words


Q I immigrated to the United States in 1974. In 1978 I married an American-born
citizen and obtained my green card. In 1977 a year before I got married, I was
arrested for indecent exposure. That charge was dismissed and I pleaded guilty
instead to disorderly conduct, soliciting a lewd act. In 1984 I was arrested for
petty theft. This conviction has been expunged. In 1993 I was arrested for
disorderly conduct and for resisting arrest. These charges were dismissed in
1995.

All these incidents took place in Santa Clara County. In 1999 I met with an
immigration lawyer about applying for U.S. citizenship. He told me that because
of my previous arrests and convictions, my application for citizenship was under
certain risks. He also said I was at risk of being deported.

He mentioned the legal term ``moral turpitude.'' I applied for citizenship and
in May 2000, the INS notified me of an interview. I was afraid and very nervous
and decided to cancel. My lawyer said I could always reapply. He added that
there was a remote possibility of some favorable changes in immigration laws
that could help my case.

Since my last arrest in 1993, I have not been in trouble with the law. I have
not reapplied. Still I am not sure what to do. I am afraid, not so much of being
denied my citizenship, but of being deported when I have three years of my life
in California and two beautiful daughters born and raised

here. Please help.

J. LopezMountain View

A We asked Susan Bowyer, managing attorney at the International Institute of the
East Bay in Oakland to answer your question. After she analyzed your case, she
said you can decide for yourself whether to reapply. Yours is a complex case,
and you should, Bowyer said, expect a detailed analysis from a lawyer and not
just vague answers.

We will send you her full response, but here's a summary:

``The issues raised by your question are the crime-based grounds of removal
under section 237 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and the good moral
character requirement for naturalization. An immigrant can be deported for
crimes in six categories: crimes involving moral turpitude, aggravated felonies,
drug crimes, domestic violence crimes, weapons crimes and multiple significant
crimes. The only crimes issues I see presented here -- those that involve
violence, sex, fraud or theft -- are crimes involving moral turpitude.

``Crimes involving moral turpitude prevent someone from showing good moral
character required for naturalization for five years after conviction. You do
not have this five-year absolute bar.

``The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services can deny an application for
failure to show good moral character. But they must weigh positive factors
against negative ones.

``The fact that you have a number of arrests, even with no serious convictions
for moral turpitude crimes, will be considered a negative factor. But USCIS must
weigh these negative factors against the length of time you have kept a clean
record, and your positive equities.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday

World News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 231 words

MEXICO

U.S. homeland chief accents border security

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said in Mexico City on Friday that
immigration reform would let U.S. law enforcement focus on catching criminals
instead of immigrants seeking better economic prospects.

But he said Americans were unlikely to back any such reform until added security
along the Mexican border convinces them they're safe.

In his first official visit to Mexico, Chertoff told foreign reporters that
Mexico was not a ``hotbed'' of terrorism but ``we are always vigilant for people
who might be passing into Mexico who are potentially linked to terrorists.''

VENEZUELA

Grocers may face prison if they increase prices

Faced with an accelerating inflation rate and shortages of basic foods like
beef, chicken and milk, President Hugo Chávez has threatened to jail grocery
store owners and nationalize their businesses if they violate the country's
expanding price controls.

Food producers and economists say the measures announced late Thursday night,
which include removing three zeroes from the denomination of Venezuela's
currency, are likely to backfire and generate even more acute shortages and
higher prices for consumers. Inflation climbed to an annual rate of 18.4 percent
a year in January, the highest in Latin America and far above the official
target of 10 percent to 12 percent.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

Feds' conduct in raids undermines local police

BYLINE: Rose Jacobs Gibson

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 704 words


Much has been said about the recent Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids in
the Bay Area. According to ICE, they were simply doing their jobs.
Unfortunately, the situation is not that simple.

ICE is a federal investigative branch of the Department of Homeland Security and
encompasses part of the functions of what we all used to call the INS, or the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Their job is to enforce immigration laws
against terrorists, as you might surmise from them being under the DHS, as well
as immigration laws against those who have committed criminal acts.

According to ICE, the recent raids in the Bay Area were part of a national
``Operation Return to Sender'' program intended to crack down on illegal
immigrants with outstanding deportation orders or criminal arrest warrants.
While the name of the program is unnecessarily facetious, the purpose of the
raids is sound. We are a country of laws. Our laws must be honored by all those
who choose to be here.

What is objectionable is not that ICE was enforcing immigration laws, but the
methods they used during that enforcement. ICE chose to concentrate their
efforts on highly visible and fear-provoking raids. And, rather than identifying
themselves as officers of DHS, they simply referred to themselves as ``police.''

First of all, ICE knew where these people lived. They knew where to find them.
Yet, rather than providing ongoing enforcement, they waited, as if these people
were hiding in bunkers or caves and their locations were just discovered. The
people of our community believe in leaders who are consistent.

Second, ICE is not the police. While ICE officers may justify describing
themselves as police, it is entirely misleading. They are officers of the
Department of Homeland Security. Yet, they chose to identify themselves
according to a term used by local law enforcement. Even our county's sheriff's
department will identify themselves as county sheriff's deputies when knocking
on residents' doors.

Local law enforcement depends on community support to enforce the laws. If
someone witnesses a stranger breaking into a neighbor's home, we as a community
are not well-served if neighbors are afraid to report the break-in because they
themselves could become the target of police based on the way they look or the
way they sound.

We have a large segment of citizens and legal immigrants in southern San Mateo
County who came from countries in Central and South America where there is no
reason to trust local law enforcement, or government at any level. They have no
history of participation in government, and harbor an understandable distrust
toward anyone with a badge.

The police in Redwood City and our county sheriff's department have worked hard
to build trust with the immigrant community of Redwood City and unincorporated
North Fair Oaks. This growing sense of mutual respect and trust has been
shattered by a federal agency that left as quickly as it came.

As an elected official, I am fully aware that those of us in government are held
to a higher standard. This is as it should be. Those of us in government are
given responsibility and stewardship that should be honored.

According to ICE, they perform their role, ``acting with courage, integrity and
a high level of accountability while striving for excellence in everything we
do. We aspire to the highest standards of performance, professionalism and
leadership.''

I propose that we hold ICE to the high standards that they themselves strive to
fulfill. It has been said before, and it bears repeating: the end does not
justify the means. ICE serves an important purpose, and its goal of enforcing
our laws should not be marginalized because of the way it conducts itself while
performing its duties.

Our federal agencies must be able to work with San Mateo County to support law
enforcement efforts in a way that is respectful to the community. We would all
benefit from an open and collaborative relationship with our federal government
so we can begin to rebuild the relationships between the community and our local
law enforcement agencies.

ROSE JACOBS GIBSON is president of the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors.
She wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Lofgren vows immigration changes;
SPEAKING BEFORE 1,000 AT TOWN HALL, SHE PROMISES LEGISLATION BY YEAR'S END

BYLINE: James Hohmann, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 680 words


Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, told an estimated crowd of 1,000 at a town hall
meeting Saturday that she -- at the urging of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi --
would work to pass a comprehensive immigration law by the end of the year.

``With your help and your stories, I believe I can help others in the Congress
understand,'' said Lofgren, who became chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee
on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law
when the Democrats took control of Congress in January. ``If we are just
punitive to those who have started to make a life here, who we will really
punish is America.''

Her pledge came as part of a carefully staged 90-minute meeting in the sanctuary
of St. Patrick's Proto-Cathedral on East Santa Clara Street. The meeting was a
response to the recent raids by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

Fifteen people sat behind a table with bread baskets and bowls of fruit --
designed to look like the one at which Jesus had his last supper. Bread was
broken at the end of the discussion.

Local business people, students, parents and church workers told of their
hardships. The participants told the three elected officials -- Lofgren, Santa
Clara County District Attorney Dolores Carr and San Jose City Councilman Sam
Liccardo -- about the effect of immigration laws on the economy, families and
the community.

``We come today from many different faith traditions,'' said Father Paul
Locatelli, president of Santa Clara University, ``but we come as one family
united in one voice to support comprehensive immigration reform which is fair
and just.''

A Morgan Hill grower said farmers weren't able to harvest all their crops last
year because the crackdown at the border stopped migrants from making it this
far north. The director of hiring at a software company said visa restrictions
meant jobs were being sent overseas. A janitor who said he was an engineer in
Mexico now picks up trash at a mall. The one- to three-minute monologues were
labeled as testimonials.

Edgar Quiroz, an 18-year-old student at De Anza College, cried as he told the
audience that he couldn't get financial aid because he lacks documents.

``There are many opportunities other people have,'' he said, ``that I do not
get.''

The crowd gave Quiroz a standing ovation and began chanting, ``Si Se Puede,''
Spanish for ``Yes, we can.''

Lilia Garrido, speaking for event co-organizer People Acting in Community
Together, said fear has become prevalent in the immigrant community.

``Once ICE starts knocking on doors, they end up arresting and reporting many
people who have done nothing wrong,'' she said. ``How can we be safe in our own
community when people are even afraid to talk with the police?''

Carr and Liccardo assured the audience it is safe to cooperate with San Jose
police. When a Spanish-speaking Liccardo offered his office's phone number --
encouraging people to report complaints about the police -- several people wrote
down the number.

``We are not in the business of arresting people because of their immigration
status,'' he said, announcing that he proposed a resolution Wednesday to
officially express the city's concern over the recent raids.

Carr told the crowd that her office could assist residents who lack documents in
their quest for citizenship.

``We can help people clear roadblocks to immigration,'' she said. ``We are here
to protect you.''

``We are really blessed with local officials who want to address this problem,''
said Father John Pedigo, and a moderator of the meeting, pointing at Lofgren.
``This is leadership.''

Excitement infused the crowd, many of them Spanish-speakers aided by translation
headsets. A band of guitars and an accordion played festive music, and a muted
light through stained glass reflected on the audience.

``I think they were very serious because they believe in justice and peace,''
said Aurora Munocz, a parishioner at St. Patrick's and mother of three. ``We
want them to follow through. That's the reason we're here.''

Contact James Hohmann at jhohmann@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5460.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Lofgren vows immigration changes;
SPEAKING BEFORE 1,000 AT TOWN HALL, SHE PROMISES LEGISLATION BY YEAR'S END

BYLINE: James Hohmann, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 680 words


Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, told an estimated crowd of 1,000 at a town hall
meeting Saturday that she -- at the urging of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi --
would work to pass a comprehensive immigration law by the end of the year.

``With your help and your stories, I believe I can help others in the Congress
understand,'' said Lofgren, who became chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee
on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law
when the Democrats took control of Congress in January. ``If we are just
punitive to those who have started to make a life here, who we will really
punish is America.''

Her pledge came as part of a carefully staged 90-minute meeting in the sanctuary
of St. Patrick's Proto-Cathedral on East Santa Clara Street. The meeting was a
response to the recent raids by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

Fifteen people sat behind a table with bread baskets and bowls of fruit --
designed to look like the one at which Jesus had his last supper. Bread was
broken at the end of the discussion.

Local business people, students, parents and church workers told of their
hardships. The participants told the three elected officials -- Lofgren, Santa
Clara County District Attorney Dolores Carr and San Jose City Councilman Sam
Liccardo -- about the effect of immigration laws on the economy, families and
the community.

``We come today from many different faith traditions,'' said Father Paul
Locatelli, president of Santa Clara University, ``but we come as one family
united in one voice to support comprehensive immigration reform which is fair
and just.''

A Morgan Hill grower said farmers weren't able to harvest all their crops last
year because the crackdown at the border stopped migrants from making it this
far north. The director of hiring at a software company said visa restrictions
meant jobs were being sent overseas. A janitor who said he was an engineer in
Mexico now picks up trash at a mall. The one- to three-minute monologues were
labeled as testimonials.

Edgar Quiroz, an 18-year-old student at De Anza College, cried as he told the
audience that he couldn't get financial aid because he lacks documents.

``There are many opportunities other people have,'' he said, ``that I do not
get.''

The crowd gave Quiroz a standing ovation and began chanting, ``Si Se Puede,''
Spanish for ``Yes, we can.''

Lilia Garrido, speaking for event co-organizer People Acting in Community
Together, said fear has become prevalent in the immigrant community.

``Once ICE starts knocking on doors, they end up arresting and reporting many
people who have done nothing wrong,'' she said. ``How can we be safe in our own
community when people are even afraid to talk with the police?''

Carr and Liccardo assured the audience it is safe to cooperate with San Jose
police. When a Spanish-speaking Liccardo offered his office's phone number --
encouraging people to report complaints about the police -- several people wrote
down the number.

``We are not in the business of arresting people because of their immigration
status,'' he said, announcing that he proposed a resolution Wednesday to
officially express the city's concern over the recent raids.

Carr told the crowd that her office could assist residents who lack documents in
their quest for citizenship.

``We can help people clear roadblocks to immigration,'' she said. ``We are here
to protect you.''

``We are really blessed with local officials who want to address this problem,''
said Father John Pedigo, and a moderator of the meeting, pointing at Lofgren.
``This is leadership.''

Excitement infused the crowd, many of them Spanish-speakers aided by translation
headsets. A band of guitars and an accordion played festive music, and a muted
light through stained glass reflected on the audience.

``I think they were very serious because they believe in justice and peace,''
said Aurora Munocz, a parishioner at St. Patrick's and mother of three. ``We
want them to follow through. That's the reason we're here.''

Contact James Hohmann at jhohmann@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5460.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday

S.J. police must keep residents' confidence;
IMMIGRATION LAW ENFORCEMENT ISN'T ONE OF THEIR JOBS

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 396 words


In movies and TV shows, public safety is all about catching the bad guys. In
real life, it's way more complicated -- which is why San Jose's longtime policy
of keeping local police out of immigration issues is so important.

Councilman Sam Liccardo is asking his colleagues to reaffirm that policy in
light of a series of sweeps by immigration authorities in nearby counties. We --
and, significantly, Police Chief Rob Davis -- hope the council's rules committee
today places the resolution on an agenda, and that the mayor and council adopt
it. It's important to help quiet fears and shore up community support for law
enforcement.

``When people fear calling the police . . . because of their immigration status,
the community loses,'' Davis said in a statement supporting the resolution. ``We
need to maintain the cooperation and communication we have . . . in order to do
our jobs effectively.''

The federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids from Monterey to San Mateo
and Contra Costa counties were supposed to round up dangerous criminals to be
deported. It's a laudable goal, but the raids also ensnare many undocumented
residents who are law-abiding and hard-working. San Jose's immigrant communities
believe they or their friends or relatives may be next.

The federal raids haven't involved local police, but agents wear jackets with
``Police'' on the back. Liccardo wants to make it clear that if sweeps take
place in San Jose, local police will not be part of them.

The resolution is co-sponsored by Vice Mayor Dave Cortese and Councilwomen
Madison Nguyen and Nora Campos, all of whom, like Liccardo, have large immigrant
populations in their districts.

Liccardo has an additional motivation. As a former prosecutor, he knows how
important it is for victims and witnesses of crimes to come forward. He says
it's common for criminals to intimidate victims by telling them that if the
police are called, the police will take their families away.

A council resolution wouldn't be just a hollow gesture. It's timely to remind
not only residents but also city employees, including police, about an important
policy. And when it's carried to immigrant communities by trusted advocates, it
can reassure and inform residents.

The public interest is best served when all neighborhoods and ethnic groups view
the police as protectors, not predators. A timely reminder is in order.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 9, 2007 Friday

Bay Area news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 949 words

SOUTH BAY

Rep. Honda reintroduces bill to protect Korean victims of immigration-fraud scam


Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, reintroduced a congressional bill Thursday that
would give legal status to scores of Korean immigrants who are facing
deportation after learning that their green cards were issued by a corrupt
immigration official.

In stories published in the Mercury News in 2003, the Korean immigrants said
they were the victims of an immigration fraud scheme between immigration
consultants and a San Jose immigration officer who accepted bribes in exchange
for authorizing green cards.

The official was convicted of taking more than $500,000 in bribes during a
12-year period from immigration consultants who were helping the Korean
immigrants obtain legal permanent residency. The immigrants denied any knowledge
of the scheme between the immigration official and the consultants.

In the bill, Honda is asking the federal government to end deportation
proceedings and drop its legal challenge of the green cards authorized by the
immigration official.

Honda introduced a similar bill in 2004, which ``never saw the light of day,''
he said Thursday. With the new Democratic leadership in Congress, Honda said he
hopes that the prospects for the bill are better this time around.

-- Jessie Mangaliman

SAN JOSE

Apartment complex fire displaces 30 families

An fire late Wednesday at a large apartment complex on Branham Lane in San Jose
displaced about 30 residents, the San Jose Fire Department said. No injuries
were reported.

The three-alarm fire at the 152-unit Branham House apartment complex at 1624
Branham Lane, between Meridian and Camden avenues, was reported Wednesday just
before 11 p.m. Firefighters arrived to see fire and smoke coming through the
roof of the units in the back of the complex and immediately called a second
alarm, San Jose fire Capt. Anthony Pianto said.

A third alarm was sounded about 11:10 p.m. It took 75 firefighters about an hour
to get the fire under control, Pianto said. Four units were destroyed while
several others suffered minor damage, fire officials said.

The Red Cross will offer displaced families temporary housing, food, clothing
and medicine. Donations can be made online at www.santaclaravalley.redcross.org.

-- Mark Gomez and Leslie Griffy

Send us your memories for SJSU's 150th birthday

San Jose State University is about to celebrate its 150th birthday, and many
alums are reminiscing about their college days as a Spartan. The Mercury News
wants to capture moments at San Jose State that changed peoples' lives. Were you
inspired by a particular course or professor? Did you find your career passion?
Witness an act that made history? Please write to us about these moments, in 125
words or less.

Mail to: SJSU Moments, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif., 95190; or e-mail to phannon@mercurynews.com and put SJSU MOMENTS in the
subject line. You must include your name, address and daytime phone number
(street addresses and phone numbers will not be published). Attachments and
photos will not be returned. The deadline for submissions is March 15.

-- Mercury News

SANTA CLARA COUNTY

53-year-old man is second inmate to die at jail this year

A 53-year-old inmate died Thursday at the Santa Clara County main jail,
apparently of natural causes, authorities said.

The inmate, who was not identified pending notification of his family, was
discovered about 3 p.m. in his single cell, said Mark Cursi, spokesman for the
Santa Clara County Department of Correction. Jail staff members and paramedics
attempted to revive the man, but he was pronounced dead about 3:30 p.m., Cursi
said. An autopsy is pending.

The inmate had been observed sitting on his bed 30 minutes earlier during
routine checks, Cursi said. The case will be investigated by department
officials and Santa Clara County sheriff's deputies.

The medium-security inmate had been in custody since Dec. 22 for failing to
register in San Jose as a sex offender, Cursi said.

His death is the second in county jail facilities in 2007. Last week, accused
killer Minh Phu Le committed suicide at the main jail by tying a plastic bag
around his head. The 33-year-old was charged with killing his 2-year-old
daughter by spiking her sippy cup with a date-rape drug.

-- Tracey Kaplan

SUNNYVALE

Santa Clara woman named as victim of fatal crash

A woman who died Monday morning after her car flipped onto an embankment in
Sunnyvale was identified as Mary Wong Edward of Santa Clara.

Emergency crews responded to reports that an Acura Integra was on its roof on
Central Expressway east of Mary Avenue about 11 a.m. Monday, Sunnyvale public
safety Lt. Rick Sautter said.

Edward, 46, was ejected from the vehicle and pronounced dead at the scene, Lt.
Dave Pitts said. Investigators have determined Edward wasn't properly wearing
her seat belt.

-- Mark Gomez

PALO ALTO

Homeowners granted right to demolish Briones house

The eight-year saga of the Juana Briones house ended this week when Palo Alto
officials finally granted the homeowners permission to raze the more than
160-year-old home.

Steve Emslie, the city's director of planning and community environment,
announced that the homeowners could be granted a demolition permit in a letter
released Wednesday afternoon. The announcement capped eight years of litigation
during which homeowners Jaim Nulman and Avelyn Welczer successfully challenged
the city's attempts to block the home's destruction.

Briones, a Latino farmer and rancher in the mid-19th century, sold produce from
her home, traded hides internationally and helped stop a smallpox outbreak in
Marin County, the Juana Briones Heritage Foundation said.

-- Kristina Peterson, MediaNews

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday

Immigration reform march set

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; News; Local

LENGTH: 375 words


Thousands of children from across the region are expected to take part in an
immigration reform march next week intended to draw attention to the people most
affected.

Activist Dolores Huerta - co-founder of the United Farm Workers - is behind the
April 29 march, one of a half dozen to be held in West Coast communities.

She and local activists gathered in San Jose on Friday to announce the
demonstration they hope will underscore the need for immigration reform.

Huerta estimates there are up to 4 million children of illegal immigrants who
were born in the United States, but whose parents could be forced back to their
native countries.

This, she said, would rip apart families, possibly making children leave a
better future to be reunited with their parents.

"These are not criminals - these are people," said Huerta, adding that illegal
immigrants are trying to do the same thing generations before them attempted to
do when they came to this country.

School districts, including Evergreen, Eastside Unified and San Jose Unified,
are also supporting the rally, organized to take place on a Sunday so school-age
kids could participate.

Some of the school districts are busing in children and their parents to
participate in the assembly, which begins at the federal government building at
First and San Carlos streets.

It's unclear exactly who will pick up the tab for the busing, but Evergreen
School Board President Sylvia Alvarez said the district is backing it so
children can stay in class while other similar marches are held on May 1.

The San Jose City Council on Tuesday is expected to approve a proclamation
supporting the march as a way for children to show their civic participation
while not walking out of school, Vice Mayor David Cortese said.

Huerta said nothing proved the need for the marches more than immigration raids
last fall in Colorado, where illegal immigrants were taken into custody at a
packinghouse.

She said children were unaware of their deported parents' whereabouts for hours,
with some left on their own for days.

"We need to put the faces of children on the injustices that are being
committed," Huerta said. "This is a very, very important movement."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 30, 2007 Monday

Immigrants' rights march focuses on keeping families together

BYLINE: By Joshua Molina Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 565 words


A year after millions of people marched around the country in support of
immigrant rights, hundreds more returned to San Jose streets Sunday, this time
with children in the spotlight.

In a show of solidarity, more than 200 people - moms, dads, children and
activists - marched a few blocks from the downtown federal courthouse to San
Jose City Hall to protest federal efforts to crack down on illegal immigration.
Deporting adults just hurts the children and tears families apart, they said.

"If I was separated from my parents, it wouldn't feel good," said 8-year-old
Robert Rocha of San Jose. "I wouldn't like that."

Shouting "Si` se puede," a phrase popularized by United Farm Workers co-founder
Cesar Chavez, meaning "Yes, it can be done," marchers carried signs that said
"Justice for Children of Immigrants" and wore buttons that said "No Human Being
is Illegal."

Many of the several dozen children wore white T-shirts and ate ice cream.

Outside City Hall, several speakers, led by Sal Alvarez, national vice president
of the Dolores Huerta Foundation, called for an end to recent congressional
efforts to increase deportation efforts. Councilmen Dave Cortese and Sam
Liccardo both marched and spoke at the event.

"We have too good of a community here not to be heard, and I know we are going
to win," Liccardo said.

Religious activists also spoke out at City Hall.

On the heels of immigration sweeps throughout the state in recent weeks by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, the Rev. John Pedigo said that the
federal government must stop ripping families apart and recognize that the
children of illegal immigrants are leaders of a new generation.

"These children are doctors," said Pedigo, diocese director for the Catholic
Campaign for Immigration Reform. "These are scientists who will find a cure for
cancer. They will end AIDS. They will find a solution for global warming."

A handful of rallies were held in California on Sunday, so that children could
attend. But even more are planned Tuesday, International Workers' Day. A 6 p.m.
vigil at San Jose City Hall is also planned for the same day.

Organizers do not expect the massive crowds that marched last year, but they
still expect a hearty turnout.

The anniversary of the march comes as federal lawmakers are again locked in a
battle over immigration reform. They are divided over what to do with the
undocumented-immigrant parents of children born in the United States.

There are an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the country, and the
Huerta foundation estimates there are up to 4 million children of illegal
immigrants.

By organizing children to attend, activists hope that lawmakers will see the
faces that are crushed when their parents are deported back to Mexico.

"This is an injustice," said 11-year-old Eva Gonzalez of San Jose.

Eva said she would be "really sad" if her parents were taken from her. But, she
said, marching together with so many people was an inspiration.

"It makes me feel like we're together and were going to fight this," she said.
"We feel like we are one people and we are united."

Carrying his 2-year-old son, Andrew, on his shoulders, Miguel Delgadillo of San
Jose said he opposes efforts that split families apart.

"I definitely believe in legalizing families, especially families with small
children," Delgadillo said.

Contact Joshua Molina at jmolina@mercurynews.com or (408) 275-2002.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (IMAGE FROM HD VIDEO STILL) Families participate in "Justice for
Children of Immigrant Parents" march in downtown San Jose, Calif. on Sunday,
April 29, 2007. They marched from the Federal Building to San Jose City Hall.
(Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
(IMAGE FROM HD VIDEO STILL) Diana Garica, 6, center, waits for the start of the
"Justice for Children of Immigrant Parents" march in downtown San Jose, Calif.
on Sunday, April 29, 2007. They marched from the Federal Building to San Jose
City Hall. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
(IMAGE FROM HD VIDEO STILL) Families participate in "Justice for Children of
Immigrant Parents" march in downtown San Jose, Calif. on Sunday, April 29, 2007.
They marched from the Federal Building to San Jose City Hall. (Nhat V.
Meyer/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday

Thousands march to immigration reform rally in San Jose

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera and Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 528 words


Wielding homemade cloth banners - with "Justica a mi Gente" or "Justice for my
People" - written in bold letters - thousands of marchers are making their way
along a four-mile trek through San Jose streets to draw attention to immigration
reform.

Chanting "Si Se Puede," or "Yes, we can," the thick procession - about 5,000
strong - is moving down King Road to Santa Clara Street amid rush hour traffic
to the cheers and honks of supporters of the march. It is one of many such
marches held today across the nation.

Several passersby gave the thumbs up to the participants, many waving American
flags alongside Mexican ones as they headed downtown for a rally at City Hall.

The turnout was a far cry from the 125,000 people who turned out to last year's
demonstration - a dropoff organizers chalk up to immigrants' fears following a
series of federal raids locally and nationally against illegal immigrants.

But fear was not enough to defeat participants, with organizer Jose Sandoval of
Voluntarios de la Comunidad saying they can't give up because there's too much
at stake.

"Immigrants must be able to step out of the shadows," he said, as the group
belted out `Si se puede," the labor rights call made famous by the late, revered
farm labor organizer Cesar Chavez. "We have to continue the fight for justice."

Meanwhile, across the Bay Area, illegal immigration opponents organized counter
rallies, where they stood on street corners holding signs that, among other
things, called for tougher borders.

"We are totally in favor of legal immigration," said Roberta Allen of Illegal
Immigrant Protests and an organizer of the counter rallies in Fremont, Hayward
Palo Alto, Pleasanton and Santa Rosa.

She said the opponents are specifically targeting illegal immigration and "there
are legal ways to become a citizen and to enter into this country. Are we not a
country of laws?"

Jose Mejia became a citizen of this country during the late 1980s and decided to
participate in the march to help other immigrants win what he calls the
opportunities he has had.

The 64-year-old El Salvador native - clad in red, white and blue - stood out in
the crowd of marchers as he held a pole with giant American flag waving in the
wind.

"This is a country of immigrants," said the retired carpenter, a father of three
and grandfather of five who immigrated to this country 30 years ago. "Everyone -
the Italians, the French, the English - came here for the same reason:
opportunity."

The march moved at a brisk pace, and was met by East Side residents waving
American and Mexican flags and signs that said: "Justice and dignity for all
immigrants."

"I'm glad to be here today because I think it's important to continue the
support for reform," said Diego Alvarado, 50, an immigrant from the Mexican
state of Toluca.

His eldest daughter daughter, Aime, 26, is in the country illegally, and has
petitioned the federal government to try to get his daughter to remain here
legally.

The Alvarado family was the subject of a Mercury News story about mixed status
households, immigrant families comprised of legal and illegal immigrants.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408)920-5704

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday

Immigrant rights marches cry for justice

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera and Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; News; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1086 words


Wielding homemade banners announcing "Justicia a mi Gente" - Justice for my
People - thousands of marchers trekked through San Jose on Tuesday, calling for
immigration reform in one of dozens of rallies that echoed across the country.

The procession of roughly 12,000 marchers spread over 11 blocks of Santa Clara
Street but fell far short of last year's May Day rally that drew about 125,000
people - a drop off organizers chalk up to immigrants' fears after a series of
raids against illegal immigrants.

Crowds were also dramatically smaller in Los Angeles, where about 25,000 turned
out, a handful scuffling with police in MacArthur Park. At the country's largest
rally in Chicago, 150,000 people took to the streets, about 250,000 less than
last year.

But fear and smaller crowds were not enough to discourage participants, with San
Jose march organizer Jose Sandoval of Voluntarios de la Comunidad saying
immigrant rights activists can't give up because too much is at stake.

"Immigrants must be able to step out of the shadows," he said, as the group
belted out "Si` se puede," the labor rights call - "Yes we can," - made famous
by the late farm labor organizer Cesar Chavez. "We have to continue the fight
for justice."

Several passersby gave the thumbs up to the San Jose marchers in the peaceful
demonstration. Many of the marchers were waving American flags alongside Mexican
ones as they headed downtown where a rally was held at City Hall calling for a
pathway toward citizenship for about 12 million illegal immigrants.

Counterrallies

Meanwhile, across the Bay Area, illegal immigration opponents organized
counterrallies, where they stood on street corners holding signs that, among
other things, called for tougher border security.

"We are totally in favor of legal immigration," said Roberta Allen of Illegal
Immigrant Protests and an organizer of Anti-May Day rallies in Fremont, Hayward,
Palo Alto, Pleasanton and Santa Rosa.

Allen said opponents are specifically targeting illegal immigration and she
continued to argue that "there are legal ways to become a citizen and to enter
into this country." The opposition leader asked, "Are we not a country of laws?"

Back at the march in San Jose, Jose Mejia waved a large American flag as his
part in the demonstration and is hopeful other immigrants win the precious
opportunities he has.

The 64-year-old El Salvador native - clad in red, white and blue - came to this
country nearly 30 years ago and became a U.S. citizen in the late 1980s.

"This is a country of immigrants," said the retired carpenter, father of three
and grandfather of five. "Everyone - the Italians, the French, the English -
came here for the same reason: opportunity."

The march moved at a brisk pace, and was met by East Side residents waving
American and Mexican flags and signs that said: "Justice and dignity for all
immigrants."

"I'm glad to be here today because I think it's important to continue the
support for reform," said Diego Alvarado, 50, an immigrant from the Mexican
state of Toluca.

His eldest daughter, Aime, 26, is in the country illegally, and Diego has
petitioned the federal government to try to get his daughter to remain here
legally.

The Alvarado family was the subject of a Mercury News story about mixed status
households, immigrant families comprising legal and illegal immigrants.

Young voices

Hundreds of school-aged students also took part in the demonstration, which was
organized in the afternoon partly so children wouldn't cut school, as several
did at Watsonville High School.

About 120 students of Academica Calmecac Charter School in East San Jose left
campus Tuesday afternoon with permission from staff.

The group, escorted by a few teachers, made their way to City Hall hours before
the march, where they waved flags for a makeshift rally.

Other marches around the Bay Area included one in downtown Oakland, which drew
about 6,000 people - a sharp drop from the nearly 17,000 who marched last year.

In San Francisco, thousands of people gathered in Dolores Park before marching
to the Civic Center. Major streets - Valencia and Market -- were closed for a
four-block procession.

Hundreds of immigrants and their supporters also gathered Tuesday in San Rafael,
including throngs of fired-up high school students eager to express their
displeasure with recent immigration raids and the Iraq war.

Back in San Jose, business owners and neighbors along the march route came out
in droves, many joining the group as it moved toward downtown.

One man stood atop a fence, where he belted out "Si se puede" and "Queremos
papeles" ("We want papers") over a loud speaker as the crowd moved past.

Employees of Barajas Real Estate company also made their way to the sidewalk in
front of the establishment, where they handed out bottles of water to
participants.

"All of us are united in the fact that we don't have papers," said Clemente
Mata, a marcher from South San Francisco who admits he's here illegally.

Robert Garcia feels a particular kinship with illegal immigrants - after all, it
wasn't so long ago he too was in this country illegally.

Extending opportunity

The 21-year-old De Anza College student arrived from Mexico City with his
parents as a toddler. His mother and father, who had tended fields around the
area, were able to get their papers through the 1980s amnesty.

They then petitioned for Garcia and his sister to get their papers, something
the sociology major says was invaluable.

"Other people deserve the same opportunities I had to become a citizen," said
Garcia, who took part in the march, adding that he believes Latino immigrants
are discriminated against compared to other immigrants.

The marchers ended at City Hall, where hundreds of participants of a rally
organized by People Acting in Community Together had already gathered.

San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis was among the rally speakers, and reaffirmed his
department's stance on recent raids on illegal immigrants by agents of
Immigration and Custom Enforcement.

"We do not participate in those raids," Davis said as the crowd cheered. "We're
the police department for everybody. When we come to help you, you don't need to
worry about your immigration status."

Tito Pisarro, a PACT volunteer, summed up the emotions of the entire day.

"We come together tonight as a community of faith," he said. "And as Congress
debates immigration reform, we are here to tell our stories."

Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.Contact Javier Erik Olvera
at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: People from throughout the South Bay participate in the May 1
Immigration March in San Jose, Tuesday May 1, 2007. (Maria J. Avila/Mercury
News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday

Next up: immigration solution

BYLINE: By Dave Montgomery McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 693 words


WASHINGTON - The Senate is heading toward a volatile replay on immigration, with
as much as two weeks of debate expected to begin May 14. Will the
Democratic-controlled Congress be any more successful in resolving an issue that
bedeviled the previous Republican-led session?

Here's an overview of what lies ahead:

Q What are the basics?

AKey senators have been struggling for days - thus far with little sign of a
breakthrough - to cobble together a compromise bill to send straight to the
Senate floor. If they fail to reach agreement by the end of the week, Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., still plans to start debate on May 14 and
will use a placeholder bill to get things started.

Q What's the placeholder?

A Probably some form of immigration legislation considered by the Senate last
year - most likely a bill passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee. If senators
reach a compromise in their behind-the-scenes deliberations after debate starts,
that would most likely be substituted as the platform for debate, but it would
be subject to amendments from all sides.

Q What's the outlook?

A Uncertain at best. Supporters of a proposed immigration overhaul - most
notably President Bush - were initially optimistic that their chances appeared
brighter this year after Democrats took control of Congress in January. But
arduous behind-the-scenes negotiations in the Senate show that building a
winning bipartisan coalition will be just as difficult as ever.

Q What's at stake for Bush?

A This is his signature domestic issue, and the White House is pushing hard to
give the beleaguered wartime president a major triumph before he leaves office
in January 2009.

Q Where are the roadblocks in the current debate?

A Everywhere. But the biggest is the one that stymied the last Congress - how to
deal with the more than 12 million undocumented immigrants now in the country.
There seems to be a broad consensus that mass deportation is both unworkable and
inhumane. Many lawmakers in both parties feel that most undocumented residents -
particularly those who have been in the country a long time - should be given a
chance at some form of legalization. But many Republicans believe they should be
required to go back to their home country first.

Q What are the other hot issues?

A The structure of a proposed guest-worker program that would enable U.S.
employers to bring in thousands of foreign workers each year to fill what they
say is a chronic shortage of unskilled workers. Senate negotiators have been
deadlocked on Democrats' insistence that guest workers be put on track for U.S.
citizenship and Republicans' insistence that workers go home after their
temporary work visas expire.

Q Where does the White House stand?

A Bush has repeatedly called for an overhaul that includes a guest-worker
program, toughened enforcement on employers, and conditional legalization for
undocumented workers who pay fines, learn English and maintain steady
employment. But administration officials, in meetings with lawmakers, have
suggested a tougher White House line this year - including charging undocumented
immigrants up to $20,000 in fines and fees to become legal permanent residents,
far above the level proposed in earlier bipartisan bills.

The evolving White House position also injects relatively new elements into the
debate by recommending a point-based immigration system that would favor
higher-educated professionals or specialists. It would sharply curtail the
immigration of family members, who now constitute the biggest bloc of legal
immigrants.

Q What's next?

A The Senate needs 60 votes to beat back a potential Republican filibuster. The
objective is maintaining the fragile coalition that passed last year's bill
62-36, with solid support among Democrats and a split among Republicans.
Head-counters say at least 20 Republicans votes are needed for passage this
year.

Q What's the outlook in the House?

A A bipartisan bill co-sponsored by Reps. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Jeff
Flake, R-Ariz., has attracted considerable attention, but the House strategy is
to let the Senate go first. If the Senate fails, say experts, the immigration
debate may be over.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday

Editorial: At last - a fair approach to immigration reform

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 486 words


Immigration reform took a huge and promising step forward Thursday. The policies
recommended by key Senate negotiators and supported by President Bush would
accomplish much of what's needed to restore a rational immigration policy that
is both fair and humane.

The exact language of the bipartisan bill has yet to be worked out, and concerns
linger about some issues.

But the fundamental principles agreed upon by the Senate team, led by Sens.
Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., provide a sound basis for reform.
The Senate will thrash out details before voting on the plan next week and
sending it to the House for further work.

Several provisions of the agreement are especially encouraging:

A promise to clear the horrendous visa backlog. The bill would immediately issue
more than 1 million visas to applicants for permanent residency, going a long
way to clearing the 4 million applications in the system. The rest of the
backlog would be cleared within eight years instead of the 20-something it would
take under current law.

More visas for skilled workers. The number of H-1B visas would roughly double
from 65,000 to 115,000 per year, with the ability to raise the cap in years of
high demand.

A fair path to citizenship. The estimated 12 million immigrants who entered this
country illegally before Jan. 1, 2007, would be granted special "Z visas" to
work and live here. They could apply for permanent residency after eight years,
but they would need to pay $5,000 in fines, demonstrate English and civics
knowledge and compete with all other immigrants seeking that status. (One
unworkable provision would require the head of the household to leave the United
States and apply for a "green card" from the home country - an unreasonable
burden for someone supporting a family.)

Improved border enforcement and employer accountability. The bill calls for
18,000 new border patrol agents, additional fencing and high-tech tools for
enforcement. It also establishes a new, supposedly tamper-proof identification
system for legal immigrants and requires employers to take stricter steps to
verify workers' identity.

Special provisions for farm workers. It would be far easier for seasonal workers
to legally enter the country and either work temporarily or apply for permanent
status. This is critical for California, which relies on these workers to
harvest crops.

The draft agreement also leaves some key questions unanswered. These include how
resident visas will be handed out, how family reunification will be balanced
against the need for more skilled workers and how temporary workers would apply
for permanent status.

But there will be plenty of opportunity to remedy problems now that agreement on
a basic framework seems achievable. For now, it's refreshing just to see an
approach to the nation's immigration problems that, in Kennedy's words, goes
beyond "bumper-sticker solutions" toward real reform.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday

Bay Area activists join the chorus of outrage over immigration plan

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera and Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 646 words


The immigration compromise plan hammered out Thursday by a bipartisan coalition
of senators and endorsed by the White House was slammed by both the right and
the left as either too flimsy or too tough.

In the Bay Area, advocates and opponents of a path to legalization for the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants denounced the planned bill.

"It's not a solution to immigration problems," said Gloria Nieto, policy
director of Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network. "It's a nightmare.
Our policy-makers are trying to couch this as some sort of solution. This is not
reality."

Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of Oakland's Diversity Alliance for a
Sustainable America, which calls for strict limitation on immigration, believes
the proposal is anything but upfront, calling it "misleading."

Mixed-status families

On the other hand, immigrant advocates were especially critical of the provision
that limits the number of visas issued to immediate family members of legal
immigrants and U.S. citizens. Those visas instead would be awarded to highly
skilled workers based on a point system.

"It's a very shortsighted, very poor plan," said Richard Konda, executive
director of the Asian Law Alliance in San Jose. He says that portion is an
obstacle to family reunification. "The family basis has been the basic backbone
of American immigration."

Konda also criticized the temporary guest worker portion that allows people to
work in the country for two years - renewable twice - but does not include a
path to permanent residence or citizenship.

"All we're creating here is a category of workers that will be exploited," Konda
said. "They're going to be used up and shipped back out again."

The bill would also require illegal immigrants seeking legalization to pay a
$5,000 fine and return to their home countries - the so-called "touch-back
provision" - to await a legal visa.

"It's just not realistic to ask so many people to leave the country," said
Larisa Casillas, director of the Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition of Oakland.

Salvador Bustamante, with the San Jose Coalition for Immigration Reform and the
Service Employees International Union, believes the fines are too steep for
anyone.

"I don't know many people who have that kind of money," he said, adding that
they had wanted a comprehensive plan that would help the "12 million people
[come] out of the shadows."

Instant voters

Arnoldo Garcia, a project coordinator at the National Network for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights in Oakland, meanwhile, said the plan could "discourage people
from coming forward" at all.

But Yeh , a naturalized citizen who was born in Vietnam to Chinese parents, says
another problem with the bill is that it creates millions of instant voters.

"Neither party will have the will to enforce immigration law," she said, adding
that the proposal would create "an environmental, fiscal and political
disaster."

Activist Brenda Walker with the Bay Area Coalition for Immigration Reform in
Berkeley, faults the plan for many things, including its effects on the
environment.

"It's just crazy to me," said Walker, who attributes illegal immigration from
Mexico to a dangerous rise in population. She also argues the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants could be double that amount.

"Nobody should be given a path to citizenship who is here illegally," said
Walker, who said the bill was more a reward. "They should be sent to the end of
the line and the end of the line is in their countries."

But for U.S. citizen Montse Alvarado, 19, a San Jose college student whose
sister, Aime Alvarado, is an illegal immigrant, the prospect of legalization
gives her a little hope.

She said she doesn't know the details of the Senate bill.

"I hope the legislation passes," she said, "not just for my sister but for other
families like ours."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday

Chung: Immigration reform bill scares many

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Los Gatos; News; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 607 words


Like many immigration lawyers, Jim Mayock began getting calls and e-mails
Thursday. No sooner had a bipartisan group of senators announced they reached a
hard-fought agreement on a comprehensive immigration reform bill, than the
hopeful queries began coming into his San Francisco office.

Perhaps this is the year. Somewhere in that big, rambling "Frankenstein" of a
document, amid the provisions for fences and pathways to legalization, amid the
Dream Act, AgJobs, and a points system, there might be a way.

There will be, for some. And severe disappointment for others.

Like the young Irish woman of 24, who had inquired how she could restart her
petition for permanent residency under her naturalized citizen father's
sponsorship. People like her - adult children of citizens - are out of luck
under the new bill.

"She thought she could re-initiate her prior paperwork. She didn't realize the
implications of turning 21," Mayock said. She may not have made good decisions
in the past, but even those who did are in the same boat.

Should this bill be passed?

In the coming week, the bill may garner enough support for passage. I've written
previously on the troubling turn that the compromise reform bill has taken,
however, because it has upended the very program in which people were playing by
the rules - the family reunification program.

One of the biggest beefs I get from people about immigration is about people
"not following the rules."

So what happened to family reunification?

"It was sacrificed on the altar of legalization," said Karen Narasaki, executive
director of the Asian American Justice Center, which has deep concerns about the
changes.

Under the new compromise, only spouses, parents and minor children of American
citizens and permanent residents will be allowed immigration visas for permanent
residency. The proposed law would clear the long backlogs over an estimated
period of eight years. Then adult children and siblings will no longer be able
to apply. But senators came up with a May 2005 cutoff date.

"They are saying to anyone who filed after May 2005 that their application would
be arbitrarily thrown in the trash," said Narasaki. "It is completely unfair and
outrageous."

Uneven playing field

Even undocumented immigrants trying to legalize under the bill have a later
cutoff date - Jan. 1, 2007. And for people applying for permanent residency
under a skilled employment visa, it is even later - whenever the bill is
enacted.

"People who have family in this country and followed the rules are getting a
worse deal," Narasaki said. "What does that say? We'll change the rules on you
in the middle of the game, and you'll be treated worse than the undocumented and
employment immigrants."

In the next week, the most controversial of the provisions will be debated, and
there is scant room to educate senators on the implications of their compromise.

"At end of the day, we don't want to have a destroyed family program, a bad
worker program and an unworkable legalization program," Narasaki said.

Mayock, who must shepherd clients through whatever gets passed, can only counsel
patience to those who call. "We've tried to tell them to hold off until it's a
done deal," he said. A change in one small detail - like a cutoff date - is a
difference in a whole lifetime.

So hunker down, roll up your sleeves and get ready to rumble.

Narasaki, like so many of the players who are poring over the pages of possible
amendments non-stop this weekend, knows only there are many unknowns with the
proposal.

And if it doesn't work, we'll have to get in there and fix it again.

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday

New immigration reform a travesty

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Letters; Los Gatos; News; Local; Opinion

LENGTH: 880 words


New immigration

reform a travesty

A better headline for your (May 18) editorial would have been: "U.S. surrenders
to 12 million illegal aliens." There was a first amnesty, now a second amnesty.
Mark your calendars - there will be a third, a fourth ....

The leftist liberals and their militants won. It did not take much: a few
demonstrations and a very supportive media are all it took for this once-great
nation to capitulate. The politicians who swore to uphold the law and the
Constitution are accountable. And law-abiding citizens who kept quiet must now
speak or forever keep their mouths shut. The appeasement brigade has scored a
tactical victory, but we can stop this surrender if you rise now and say,
"Enough."

Manny Madriaga
San Jose

Z visas would be

same as pardons

Many will disagree with the editorial board's assessment that this is "a fair
approach to immigration reform." Under the proposed policy, 12 million
immigrants who entered this country illegally would be given special Z visas,
which, in essence, grant them amnesty after an eight-year waiting period. Once
again, Congress has provided a ceremonial slap in the face to all of those
hard-working individuals who came to this great country legally. Z visas are
nothing more than governmental pardons for people who broke the law.

Steve Jursa
San Jose

No sanctuary

in Silicon Valley

I applaud San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed for abiding by the law and not declaring San
Jose a sanctuary city for illegal immigrants. I also want to thank Mayors Gavin
Newsom and Ron Dellums for declaring their cities as sanctuaries. Now, maybe
some of the illegal immigrants in the valley will migrate farther north and take
with them the burden that they place on the local American taxpayer. Enjoy,
citizens of San Francisco and Oakland. Soon you may experience many of the
problems that plague Los Angeles.

Harry Parker
Saratoga

Plug loopholes

in H-1B visa system

Investigation of the misuse of H-1B visas by companies is long overdue (Page 2C,
May 15). Last year, nearly one-third of the 65,000 H-1B visas were given to nine
foreign companies providing back-office and information-technology outsourcing
services. This is ridiculous.

U.S. companies outsource services and, in turn, these companies provide
contractors to back-fill those positions. This is quite an innovative way to
manipulate the system. H-1B visas should be for jobs truly involved in
engineering and technology innovation. It is time to plug the loopholes.

Arun Agarwal
Union City

Lottery, EdFund

sales a good idea

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has proposed two ideas that can help California
taxpayers get a better return on their assets: leasing the California State
Lottery and selling the EdFund (Editorial, May 16).

Voters approved the lottery to increase funding for schools. But our lottery is
among the lowest-performing in the nation. Leasing it could more than double our
returns. Any lease the state agrees to will protect school funding and maintain
the state's ownership and regulation of the lottery.

Selling EdFund could bring the state up to $1 billion while getting it out of
what is essentially a private business that's generating low returns. A sale of
EdFund will not hurt students. It is simply a guarantor, and there are 30
private firms that serve a similar function.

California's taxpayers are entitled to a better economic return on the lottery
and EdFund.

David Crane, special adviserto the governorOffice of Gov. ArnoldSchwarzenegger
Sacramento

Don't forget about

traffic mitigation

Your (May 17) editorial regarding the Evergreen decision missed the mark. Folks
seem to forget that there is currently a freeze on building homes in Evergreen
because of the gridlock here. It's called the Evergreen Development Policy, and
it's what the community task forces have been grappling with for the past four
years.

Until millions of dollars in traffic improvements are completed, no more homes
can or should be built by the three remaining large property owners. This is the
decision we need our city council to sustain. While developing the industrial
land simultaneously with housing would be a great bonus, mitigating traffic
before any more new housing must be priorities No.1, 2 and 3.

David Zenker
San Jose

Marital status

irrelevant factor

I can agree that the mayor and council members are underpaid (Editorial, May
15). And it's really a bad spot to put them in, to have to vote for their own
raises, so I'm OK with having that raise go into effect after the next election.
However, the observation that new council members Sam Liccardo and Pierluigi
Oliverio are single and, presumably, can live without an increase is absurd.
That same logic would lead to paying more to council members and the mayor based
on marital status and the number of children they have, all of which is
ridiculous. Let's keep this simple, and do it the right way.

Max Schultz
San Jose

Executive editor

will be missed

I wanted to express my sadness at Executive Editor Susan Goldberg's leaving.
Susan has exemplified the best of the Mercury News many of us grew up with. She
has been active in the community, responsive anytime I have written, and a
friend to her adopted city, San Jose. We will miss her presence and I wish her
well in her new position.

Kathleen King,Saratoga City Council
Saratoga

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 28, 2007 Monday

Immigration bill ignores growing need for agricultural, construction workers

BYLINE: By Andres Oppenheimer

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 766 words


Here's some little-noticed potential fallout of the immigration reform package
being debated in the U.S. Congress: Its merit-based admissions criteria may
favor Asian immigrants over Latin Americans.

Under the bipartisan immigration overhaul bill, foreigners seeking legal status
in the United States would be selected through a point system based on their
levels of education, proficiency in English and occupation. That means we would
roll out a red carpet for Indian engineers, while making it harder for Mexican
gardeners to achieve the American dream. Until now, the immigration system has
been largely based on family-reunification requests and employers' sponsorships.
But, by introducing a point system that would make it easier for well-educated,
English-speaking foreigners to become permanent immigrants, the new admissions
process would smack of racial and intellectual engineering.

It would also hurt Latin American economies - creating even greater immigration
pressures in the future - and may lead to a shortage of low-skilled workers in
the United States.

Consider the educational background of most immigrants who have arrived in the
United States since 1990, according to a new study by the Migration Policy
Institute:

More than 76 percent of all immigrants from India have at least a bachelor's
degree, as well as 52 percent from China, 62 percent from South Korea and 51
percent from the Philippines.

By comparison, 61 percent of Mexican immigrants, 62 percent of Salvadoran
immigrants and 66 percent of Guatemalan immigrants have not completed high
school.

Education levels of South American immigrants are somewhat higher - nearly 40
percent of Colombians, 31 percent of Peruvians and 49 percent of Venezuelans
have at least a bachelor's degree - but still below that of their Asian
counterparts.

When it comes to proficiency in English, 70 percent of all immigrants from
India, 59 percent from the Philippines and 26 percent from South Korea speak
fluent English. By comparison, only 12 percent of immigrants from Mexico and 15
percent from El Salvador speak English fluently.

"Clearly, the point system would disadvantage immigrants from Latin America,"
said Douglas Rivlin, a spokesman for the National Immigration Forum, a
pro-immigration group in Washington. "It's heavily weighted toward higher
education levels and doesn't take into account the need for lower-skilled
workers."

Pro-immigration advocates note that, as the U.S. population grows older and the
labor force pool shrinks in a near full-employment economy, there will soon be
more shortages of agricultural laborers, construction workers and waiters than
of white-collar workers.

The National Restaurant Association projects that its labor force of 12.8
million will grow by 15 percent over the next 10 years, but the U.S. government
estimates that the overall U.S. workforce will grow by only 10 percent.

"We are worried that we will not be able to find enough workers," said John Gay,
a senior National Restaurant Association official.

Won't Americans fill those jobs if you raise wages, I asked him. No, he
answered: "The average construction worker makes $21 an hour, and there is a
shortage of workers in the construction industry."

My opinion: The United States would be better off providing more similar paths
to permanent citizenship to both highly skilled and low-skilled workers.

Why low-skilled workers? First, the United States will need them. Second, if we
rely mostly on temporary workers for low-end jobs, they will stay in the country
anyway, and we will be creating an underclass of disenfranchised people. (Think
of the 2005 riots by Muslim youths in Paris, and you'll get the idea.)

Third, and most important, because if instead of helping boost Latin American
and Caribbean economies we close the door and reduce the $65 billion their
migrants send home in remittances every year, we will be paving the way for
greater economic hardship in the region and even greater unchecked emigration in
the future. (And if you think that a border fence will keep them out, you are
kidding yourself: They will circumvent it, or dynamite it, if necessary.)

In the long run, the only way to slow the immigration flow will be helping
promote development in Latin America.

In the meantime, while the proposed immigration package is overall a positive in
that it provides a path to legalization to millions of undocumented workers, its
point system should be reshuffled.

It's OK to give special treatment to Indian engineers at the top of the
education ladder, but we should also grant fast admission to those at the
bottom.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday

Bush defends immigration bill, says critics preying on fears

BYLINE: By Ron Hutcheson McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 866 words


GLYNCO, Ga. - Firing back at conservative critics, President Bush on Tuesday
defended his plan to overhaul immigration laws and accused its opponents of
"trying to rile up people's emotions" with misinformation.

In an interview, Bush expressed his determination to fight for changes that
would let millions of illegal immigrants gain legal status. He cast the debate
as a struggle over America's soul and its reputation as a welcoming nation.

"I'm deeply concerned about America losing its soul. Immigration has been the
lifeblood of a lot of our country's history," the president said. "I am worried
that a backlash to newcomers would cause our country to lose its great capacity
to assimilate newcomers."

Bush underscored his commitment to the proposed overhaul - despite harsh
criticism from some conservatives - as he traveled to Georgia for a speech that
blasted the legislation's critics.

"I'm sure you've heard some of the talk out there about people defining the
bill. It's clear they hadn't read the bill. They're speculating about what the
bill says, and they're trying to rile up people's emotions," he told an audience
at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center. "If you want to kill the bill,
if you don't want to do what's right for America, you can pick one little aspect
out of it, you can use it to frighten people. Or you can show leadership and
solve this problem once and for all."

Bush acknowledged that the proposed overhaul faces a difficult time in Congress,
where it is under attack from both ends of the political spectrum.

Conservative critics contend that it amounts to an amnesty program because
illegal immigrants would be allowed to stay in the country after paying fines.
Some liberals complain that plans for a new temporary-worker program are overly
restrictive and would create a permanent underclass of foreign workers.

Some of the most vociferous criticism has come from conservative talk-show hosts
who usually back the president. Commentator Rush Limbaugh has told his listeners
that the legislation would doom the Republican Party and the nation.

The bill seeks to strike a balance between tougher border enforcement and a more
welcoming policy toward the estimated 12 million immigrants who are in the
country illegally.

Bush hopes to push it through Congress with help from a bipartisan group of
lawmakers that includes Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., a liberal stalwart, and
Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., a staunch conservative. The president said he had no
hesitations about working with Kennedy despite their sharp differences over Iraq
and other issues.

"The reason why is, he can get the job done," Bush said aboard Air Force One.

Sitting in his spacious office on the presidential aircraft, Bush traced his
commitment to immigration to his time in Texas.

"When you grow up in Texas like I did, you recognize the decency and humanity of
Hispanics. And the truth of the matter is, a lot of this immigration debate is
driven as a result of Latinos being in our country," he said. "I have seen
firsthand the beautiful stories of people being able to take advantage of
opportunity and make solid contributions to our society."

He said Americans had nothing to fear from large-scale immigration from Latin
America.

"There is an element of our society that is worried about two Americas," he
said. "Our ability to welcome newcomers and the system's capacity to assimilate
them has been one of the great powerful traditions of America. It works, and it
will work this time. People shouldn't fear our capacity to uphold our motto: E
Pluribus Unum."

The Latin phrase means "Out of many, one."

Addressing one of the most sensitive issues in the measure, Bush expressed hope
that the changes would reduce the need for a fence along the border with Mexico.

The bill requires the completion of at least 370 miles of fencing, along with
other security measures, before any temporary-worker program can go into effect,
but doesn't specify how much of the border ultimately will be fenced. Congress
approved legislation last year calling for 700 miles of fence.

The proposed fence has drawn protests in Texas, where officials fear it will
hinder commerce and cause environmental problems.

"The fence sends a clear signal that we're serious about enforcing the border,"
Bush said. "A lot of these ranchers down there are saying, `Wait a minute. Bad
idea.' I presume we're not going to build a fence on places where people don't
want it."

In California, tech companies and other large employers are working to change a
proposal in the bill that could make it harder to bring in or keep skilled
employees.

The current system, based on family ties and employer sponsorship, would be
replaced by a complicated point system that would give more weight to education
and skills. Some business leaders said the change would remove their ability to
sponsor individuals to fill specific jobs. Instead, they would have to look to a
pool of workers, regulated by the Department of Homeland Security, instead of
recruiting preferred job candidates.

Asian-American and other groups also are worried that downgrading family
reunification as a factor will make it more difficult for relatives to enter the
country.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday

Common language assists assimilation

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: OPINION; Letters

LENGTH: 868 words


Common language

assists assimilation

Ruben Navarrette Jr.'s piece on the debate over English as the official language
(Opinion, June 6) completely misses the point. Common language is what brings a
nation together and provides cohesion, unity and assists newcomers with
assimilation into their adopted society. Without a common language, we become a
country divided into various regional pockets. Most legal immigrants take the
first step of learning English, not just as a sign of respect for their adopted
country, but as a steppingstone to start their new lives. As for illegal
immigrants, who already have shown a lack of respect for our laws and borders,
why should we expect them to respect our language, as well?

Brian Chang
Santa Clara

Build workforce,

education in U.S.

L.A. Chung addresses how current H-1B visa holders would be affected by the
proposed immigration legislation (Page 1B, June 6). Chung could widen her lens a
bit and get to the real problem with this bill: Companies would rather find
talent overseas than look for it here. I believe it does not have to be
either-or. As a nation, we need to invest in our youth. Rather than spending
millions of dollars locking up our youth, we need to invest in our educational
system so that we do not have severe underemployment here while we are relying
on other countries to pay for educating our workforce.

Guadalupe Friaz
San Jose

Don't create class

of migrant slaves

The immigration problem is more complex than we are being told. Congress is
rushing for a quick fix for the corporations. We need to secure the borders
first and then enforce the laws we already have. What they would like to do is
create a permanent class of slave laborers. This bill in Congress must be
stopped.

Diana Harper
San Jose

Wake up, America,

to terrorist threat

Maybe now the Bush administration will receive the credit it deserves from
Democratic obstructionists in Congress for foiling a potential tragedy at JFK
Airport. A successful plot to blow up a fuel pipeline feeding JFK would have
caused destruction and death. Every few months, we learn of a new foiled plot to
kill Americans and hurt our economy. U.S. citizens had better wake up and
realize that this hatred toward America and Israel is not a joke and that our
president and FBI are doing the right thing by carefully monitoring terrorist
activities. I don't know how many plots must be stopped to ignite Americans'
righteous anger and grab the attention of those who do not believe that fighting
a war against terrorism and those who provide safe havens "on their turf"
matters.

Kevin B. Kamen
Baldwin, N.Y.

Reduce birthrate,

save the planet

There is only one challenge facing the water supply (Page 1A, June 3), and it is
the same challenge facing endangered species, polluted open spaces, gridlocked
roads, inadequate school facilities and global warming - we have too many people
in this state, country and the world. We act as if the entire world is ours and
we can use it or destroy it as we wish. Our thoughtlessness, our ingenious
technological skills and our selfishness have produced a world in which all
claims fall before the claims of human beings. We pride ourselves on our great
reasoning, linguistic and mental skills, yet we are not smart enough to curb our
population and create a truly sustainable society.

Tina Peak
Palo Alto

Feat too great

for Tiger Woods

Tiger Woods is a class act and his stature as an athlete is extraordinary, but
that he has singularly changed the perception of race in America (Opinion, June
4)? Hardly. Philip J. Trounstine's prime example, Woods' triumphs at Augusta,
Ga., did not move that bastion of prejudice to allow any female members or more
than a token number of black members. There is no question that Woods has had a
positive impact on race relations. However, to suggest he is responsible for
Sen. Barack Obama's current opportunities represents a breathtaking lack of
perspective.

Jeffrey A. Schwartz
Saratoga

Other trailblazers

deserve credit

There have been five black presidential candidates, starting with Shirley
Chisholm. I'd say they played a much larger role in forging the political path
Philip J. Trounstine attempts to lay at Tiger Woods' feet. If we accept his
hypothesis that a black superstar in a traditionally white sport helped create
the opportunity Sen. Barack Obama now has, then we should look to tennis star
Arthur Ashe, instead. Regardless, I would hope that we Americans stop using
"racial calculus" and instead judge Obama's candidacy by his character and his
platform - as we should judge all candidates.

Curt Schimmels
Los Gatos

Take unified tack

on health care

I welcome the decision of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to address the state's
escalating health care crisis (Page 6B, June 3). But if the governor is truly
committed to a goal of universal coverage, effective cost controls and improving
the quality of care, he should join with the California Nurses Association in
supporting a single-payer system, the only way to achieve those goals with a
health plan that would actually heal California. Last year, the governor vetoed
a single-payer bill, SB840 by Sen. Sheila Kuehl. It will be reintroduced this
year.

Barbara Dunn Cherry
Los Altos Hills

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 22, 2007 Friday

Despite roadblocks in Congress, immigration reform will happen

BYLINE: By Abraham F. Lowenthal

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 687 words


The congressional debate on the comprehensive immigration reform bill proposed
on a bipartisan basis by 10 leading senators is resuming after a two-week
hiatus.

The early weeks of Senate debate (and public opinion polls) revealed strong
support for the proposal's main innovation: a path toward legal status and
eventual citizenship for the estimated 12 million unauthorized residents
currently in the United States. A vocal minority claims that the proposal
confers "amnesty" on those who have entered or stayed in the United States
illegally. However, approximately two-thirds of the senators and a strong
majority of the public believe that the bill's provisions - application fees and
fines, several steps taking some years to secure full citizenship, and a
"touch-back" requiring applicants to return briefly to their home country - are
enough to distinguish the reform from the kind of outright "amnesty" that U.S.
public opinion strongly opposes.

The proposed temporary-worker program has received much less support. An
amendment to cut the number of authorized temporary workers from 400,000 a year
(about the estimated size of the annual U.S. labor market demand) down to
200,000 was passed. Representatives of Latinos and other immigrant groups have
criticized the program's provisions - entry for two years, return for a year,
back to the United States for two years, for a limit of three periods, then
permanent return to the home country - as utterly unrealistic, and likely to
create an exploited underclass, even if it were feasible. Employers are
concerned about losing their investment in experience and skills. Further
discussion and compromise will be required to craft a sensible guest-worker
program that meets employment needs and treats workers fairly without
inadvertently creating a large new settlement of unauthorized long-term
residents.

To follow the complex maneuvering still to come in the Senate and then in the
House of Representatives, it is important to focus on the underlying realities.
Any immigration reform will ultimately be shaped by the interplay among seven
forces:

Legislation and court rulings.

Demography, both in the sending countries and in the United States.

Labor markets.

Family dynamics.

Cultural norms, including attitudes about law enforcement.

International cooperation or its absence, especially in border regions.

Broad U.S. public opinion.

Although many pundits emphasize how difficult it is to craft and approve new
legislation and to satisfy the demands of public opinion, it is crucial to
emphasize that, of the seven relevant factors, only three - legislation, the
degree of international cooperation and public opinion - are actually
susceptible to change as a result of deliberate policy. The other factors are
essentially given. Any proposed reform that contradicts the fundamental
realities of demography, labor markets, family dynamics or deep cultural norms
will fail.

It is within this broad context that the core of the proposed reform is a
promising step forward, for it fundamentally recognizes migration as a natural
flow, responding to contemporary demographic, economic, family and cultural
realities. The proposal accepts migration as a fact and seeks to respond to it
with sensitivity to the core concerns of all those who are significantly
affected: current unauthorized residents, future entrants, employers, and
citizens concerned with adherence to the law and issues of national identity and
language.

The reform proposal will not emerge from Congress intact, and it may not survive
the contradictory crosscurrents it is facing, especially with a severely
weakened president probably unable to deliver many votes. But this proposal,
because of its positive and comprehensive stance, will probably shape the terms
of national debate and of eventual legislation, if not in this Congress then in
the next. Far from building a fence, the bipartisan Senate leaders have sketched
out an important bridge to a more humane and viable immigration regime. Their
initiative should be the basis for a feasible plan, not shunted aside by extreme
voices on either side.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday

Immigration battle shifting to states, cities

BYLINE: By Dave Montgomery McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 711 words


WASHINGTON - The collapse of congressional efforts to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws is expected to dramatically accelerate an effort by state and
local governments to take matters into their own hands to deal with the nation's
12 million illegal immigrants.

The result, advocates on both sides of the issue say, could be a patchwork of
laws and ordinances with vastly different approaches, ranging from measures that
harshly penalize illegal immigrants and their employers to the spread of
"sanctuary cities" that prohibit police from questioning suspects about their
immigration status.

"There's going to be a barrage of local laws dealing with immigration policy,"
said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a leading sponsor of a White House-backed
immigration bill that stalled in the Senate this week. "In some areas of the
country, it will be sanctuary. In other areas of the country, if you look at
someone who looks illegal, you can lose your business license."

Senate defeat

Senators voted 46-53 against a procedural motion Thursday to move toward a final
vote on the bill, effectively killing - at least for now - a years-long push to
repair what's long been assailed as a broken immigration system. The outcome
dealt an embarrassing defeat to President Bush, who's made overhauling
immigration law his top domestic priority.

Frustrated over what they perceive as federal foot-dragging, state and local
governments already have been stepping up with remedies that range from punitive
to protective, a trend that's almost certain to escalate in the void Congress
left.

"If Congress is going to abdicate its responsibilities, then states and cities
are going to jump in," said John Gay, the senior vice president of the National
Restaurant Association and the leader of a business coalition that backed the
failed Senate bill. "One of the arguments for opposing state and local proposals
is that Congress is addressing it. We don't have that anymore."

As of April, state legislators in all 50 states had introduced at least 1,169
bills and resolutions on immigration this year, more than twice the number
introduced last year, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. Many fell by the wayside but others made their way into law,
underscoring the public's growing intolerance of federal inaction.

Oklahoma lawmakers recently enacted a law that cuts off illegal immigrants'
access to driver's licenses and many government benefits. A 6-month-old Colorado
law prevents employers from hiring illegal immigrants and requires them to
affirm the legal status of employees.

Local decisions

Cities and towns also have gotten into the act. Farmers Branch, Texas, a Dallas
suburb, drew national attention by enacting an ordinance that bans landlords
from renting to illegal immigrants; the ban is being challenged in court. The
town council of another Texas community - Oak Point, northwest of Dallas -
narrowly approved a resolution declaring English the official language.

Other states and municipalities have displayed a more welcoming atmosphere. In
the Cuban-American stronghold of South Florida, two cities and Miami-Dade County
have embraced resolutions calling on the federal government to stop deporting
undocumented immigrants.

Thirty-two cities and counties in 16 states - including San Francisco, Austin,
Houston and Seattle - have adopted "sanctuary policies" protective of
undocumented immigrants, according to the Congressional Research Service, a
division of the Library of Congress.

With congressional leaders predicting that there will be no federal action on
immigration at least through the rest of Bush's presidency, conservative
lawmakers in more than half the states are readying legislation to crack down on
illegal immigration and enable local officers to enforce immigration laws.

A group called State Legislators for Legal Immigration announced its creation
last month to form "a unified front" against employers who hire illegal
immigrants, said its founder, Republican state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe of Cranberry
Township, Pa. Legislators from 30 states have joined the organization and will
introduce similar bills in an attempt to "shut off the economic faucet" -
employment - that draws illegal immigrants to the United States, Metcalfe said.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Immigration reform activists fasting outside San Jose congresswoman's office

BYLINE: By Mark Gomez

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 182 words


Four South Bay college students and an administrator are fasting this week to
show their support for immigration reforms that were snuffed out last month by
Congress.

The activists are gathered in front of Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren's office on
North First Street in San Jose to show support for the Dream Act, an immigration
reform bill that would give legal status to some illegal immigrants' children
who graduated from high school.

The Dream Act - which was co-sponsored by Lofgren - was folded into President
Bush's immigration reform bill that did not gain the necessary support in
Congress last month.

Participating in the fast are three San Jose State University students, an
Evergreen Valley College student and Richard Hobbs, a trustee in the San
Jose/Evergreen Community College District. Their fast began Monday morning and
is scheduled to end Thursday.

Two of the students will join a group of about 30 students from around the state
in San Francisco and begin a seven-day fast in front of House leader Nancy
Pelosi's office.

Contact Mark Gomez at mgomez@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5869.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Fast under way for immigration changes

BYLINE: By Mark Gomez Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 178 words


Four South Bay college students and an administrator are fasting this week to
show their support for immigration changes that were snuffed out last month by
Congress.

The activists gathered Tuesday in front of U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren's office on
North First Street in San Jose to show support for the Dream Act, an immigration
bill that would give legal status to some illegal immigrants' children who
graduated from high school.

The Dream Act - co-sponsored by Lofgren - was folded into President Bush's
immigration bill that did not gain the necessary support in Congress last month.

Participating in the fast are three San Jose State University students, an
Evergreen Valley College student and Richard Hobbs, a trustee in the San
Jose/Evergreen Community College District. Their fast began Monday morning and
is scheduled to end Thursday.

Two of the students will join a group of about 30 students from around the state
in San Francisco and begin a seven-day fast in front of House leader Nancy
Pelosi's office.

Contact Mark Gomez at mgomez@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5869.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victor Cristobal (24) rests while fasting during the 26th hour of the
three day fast in his support for legalization and for the passage of the Dream
Act in front of Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren's office in San Jose on July 3, 2007.
Students from San Jose State University, Evergreen Valley College, Escuela
Popular Student Club, Maiz and other supporters are fasting to demonstrate their
support for immigration reform and the DREAM Act. (Joanne Ho-Young Lee/Mercury
News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday

Chung: Simple request: Fair handling of green card applications

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Local; News

LENGTH: 613 words


Across the country, as we were enjoying our Independence Day barbecues, a
despair-fueled movement of high-skilled workers was gathering steam over the
Internet.

I don't know where it goes from here, but today, when you see the rally of these
immigrants and their families marching from San Jose City Hall to U.S. Rep. Zoe
Lofgren's office, you'll know how it ignited.

"It's really a Web 2.0 thing," said Ming, a Silicon Valley software engineer,
referring to the speed in which a social network of foreign Chinese engineers
mobilized in days, via an MIT BBS, an early university online forum. The
catalyst: Legal immigrants' boiling frustration over the repeated failures to
reform immigration laws by which their futures hang.

The capper was July 2, when the American government effectively rescinded an
invitation made just 20 days earlier to apply for a green card. In that period,
hundreds of families had turned their lives upside-down on short notice,
spending thousands of dollars to find and authenticate documents, get medical
exams, lab tests, shots, enlist family a half a world away to get birth
certificates, and gather the pile of documents needed by the deadline, also July
2. Costs can run $4,000 per family member.

A nation of laws, no?

For many who had played by the rules, kept their heads down, crossed every "t"
and dotted every "i," said Aman Kapoor, "it was the last straw." Kapoor is
founder of 2-year-old Immigration Voice, which represents many high-skilled
workers who started working with members of Congress to find solutions to the
backlog of visa applications for their group.

Lofgren said the turnabout sets a terrible precedent. It revealed an imbroglio
between the U.S. State Department, which issues the visas, and the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, which processes them. The State
Department, according to reports, was trying to prod the USCIS into making sure
the annual allotment of green cards would be used rather than expire before the
end of federal fiscal year. The USCIS would not accept any more on July 2.

Lofgren, chairwoman of the subcommittee on immigration, Wednesday demanded all
correspondence and documentation related to the fiasco from Michael Chertoff,
secretary of homeland security, which oversees USCIS.

It's small comfort for the thousands who had moved mountains, only to have their
hopes ruthlessly dashed. "I couldn't believe it," said Ming, who works in San
Jose, but did not want to give his full name because of sensitivity to his
employer.

"We pay into Social Security, we obey the law, we follow all the rules . . . and
we get betrayed. We are hard-working people."

Is someone in charge here?

Regardless of how you feel about H-1B visas in Silicon Valley, government,
acting within the current framework of laws, should not be acting willy-nilly.
It's not fair. And, as Lofgren said, it caused needless hardship and "undermines
our efforts to foster legal and orderly immigration." Why believe Uncle Sam?

It's not just the maligned software engineers, but those in skilled professions
that we need - nurses, physical therapists and doctors - who are among the visa
holders in this backlog limbo.

Last weekend, a small group rallied at San Jose City Hall and met for the first
time. Over noodles at a Milpitas Square restaurant later, five talked about the
toll it had taken taken and what could be done.

"People aren't saying `Give us a green card now,' " Kapoor said. "They are
saying `Tell us one way or another.' Then people can make their own decision."

Many have lost faith in the system, he said. And isn't that a heckuva way to
build a nation?

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday

Bill targets new fees for immigrants

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News

LENGTH: 356 words


U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren is calling on Congress to scrap hefty immigration
application fee increases, arguing it is unclear how the money will be spent.

Lofgren, D-San Jose, introduced a bill late Monday, the day the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services increases - an average of 86 percent - went into
effect.

In the bill, she contends agency officials haven't "adequately explained" in the
six months since the increase was announced how the additional $1 billion in
revenue would be used.

Citizenship and Immigration Services Director Emilio Gonzalez has said the funds
would be used to improve technology and hire more employees as well as build
better facilities and improve existing ones.

But, in a written statement, Lofgren contends Citizenship and Immigration
Services "has yet to provide Congress with a detailed plan for its
infrastructure modernization efforts."

Lofgren also says the agency has "repeatedly wasted money and resources" and
"has suffered from a lack of transparency and stability in its operations and
policy development."

Sharon Rummery, a regional spokeswoman, said Citizenship and Immigration
Services doesn't comment on pending legislation.

The increases include a spike from $330 to $595 for citizenship applications,
$180 to $340 for employment permits, and $70 to $80 for fingerprinting costs.

Lofgren, chairwoman of the House immigration subcommittee, held hearings shortly
after the increases were announced and asked agency officials to find other
solutions.

Lofgren likely will bring the bill to the floor within the next few months, but
its fate is uncertain as no other lawmaker has publicly backed it.

Immigrant rights advocates across the country have protested the fee increases,
saying they are too high for people to pay without causing a financial burden.

Richard Konda, executive director with the Asian Law Alliance in San Jose, was
happy to hear about Lofgren's bill.

"The fees are just too much, especially for working families," Konda said.

Still, he is pessimistic of its future. "I'm just not sure how far it's going to
go."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.

com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

California legislators push to halt deportation of widow

BYLINE: By Steve Geissinger MediaNews

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 516 words


SACRAMENTO - State legislators from both parties said Wednesday they will try to
build enough public compassion to make Congress override immigration law in a
single case, allowing the widow of a Bay Area hero to stay in the United States.

Lawmakers and advocacy groups are launching an e-petition drive in support of a
congressional measure aimed at thwarting the deportation of Jacqueline Coats,
27, of San Leandro.

Her husband, Marlin Coats, a 29-year-old native of San Francisco and former
lifeguard, died saving a boy from drowning last year and has been posthumously
awarded the Carnegie Hero Award and the U.S. Coast Guard Lifesaving Medal of
Honor.

Coats was on a family Mother's Day outing last year at Ocean Beach when two
boys, ages 11 and 14, began calling for help. They had been pulled away from
shore by a strong current.

Coats reached the older boy and helped him toward shore. But when Marlin Coats
turned back for the other boy, he himself went under. Two other lifeguards
brought the other boy to shore but Coats drowned.

Jacqueline Coats, who has been in the country for six years, faces deportation
because immigration proceedings were incomplete at the time of her husband's
death.

Due to the unique circumstances, U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein introduced a bill
last year to make Jacqueline Coats a U.S. citizen. That measure died, but the
senator has reintroduced it as S 420.

Assemblywoman Mary Hayashi, D-Hayward, is leading the e-petition drive on her
Web site in support of the bill.

"This is a unique opportunity for all of us to come together and do what is
right," Hayashi said at a Sacramento news conference. "We're calling upon all
Americans today to join us in urging Congress to pass this bill."

Republican Assemblyman Bill Maze, R-Visalia, said Jacqueline Coats "has a right
to be a citizen."

Jacqueline Coats' deportation proceedings have been put on hold temporarily. But
without passage of the congressional bill, she will be forced to return to her
home country of Kenya.

Jacqueline Coats said she is supporting relatives in Kenya with her salary from
a job at Oakland-based AC Transit.

Coats said her life has been "a roller coaster ride" given Marlin's death, a
subsequent fire that destroyed her apartment, and her battle to gain citizenship
and stay with her American community of friends and family.

Supporters say this case stands out among the many immigration disputes being
fought because of Marlin Coats' heroism and his widow's efforts to properly work
toward citizenship.

Jacqueline Coats acknowledged that she did not leave as required after her
student visa to attend San Jose State University expired and she was denied a
renewal. She did, however, continue working with immigration officials to appeal
and argue her case, she said.

"I was trying to work it out the right way," she said.

Members of the legislative Latino caucus, the National Organization for Women
and the NAACP who have stood behind this case sought Wednesday to steer their
comments toward broader immigration issues.

Contact Steve Geissinger at sgeissinger@angnewspapers.com or (916) 447-9302.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Immigration march planned for Wednesday

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 144 words


An immigrants rights group will hold a march from East San Jose to City Hall
Wednesday to call attention to immigration reform.

The Voluntarios de la Comunidad march was organized as part of a rally in
Washington D.C., that immigrant Elvira Arellano was supposed to attend before
her deportation last month.

Arellano became an activist and a national symbol for undocumented immigrants
with U.S.-born children when she defied her deportation order by seeking shelter
in a Chicago church for about a year.

Several activists and non-profits will continue the rally in Washington D.C.
Communities across the country will hold similar marches to urge lawmakers to
create a pathway to citizenship for the estimated 12 million undocumented
immigrants in the United States.

In San Jose, the march will begin at 4 p.m. at Mi Pueblo Plaza, 1775 Story Road
and end at City Hall.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday

San Jose crowd marches for immigration overhaul

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 145 words


Nearly 50 people marched from San Jose's Mi Pueblo Plaza on Story Road to City
Hall on Santa Clara Street on Wednesday to raise awareness about immigration
problems.

The Voluntarios de la Comunidad march was organized as part of a rally in
Washington, D.C., that immigrant Elvira Arellano was supposed to attend before
her deportation last month.

Arellano became an activist and a national symbol for undocumented immigrants
with U.S.-born children when she sought shelter in a Chicago church last year
with her U.S.-born son and defied her deportation order.

The local march, which included about a dozen children and signs that read,
"Help the children," ended with a rally that called on lawmakers to create a
pathway to citizenship for the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in
this country.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 533 words


LOS ANGELES

ACLU sues to eliminate

drugging of deportees

The ACLU filed a motion Tuesday in federal court to stop immigration authorities
from forcibly drugging deportees in order to send them back to their home
countries on commercial airlines.

The motion comes after an official with the department of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement stated in Senate testimony in September that 50 immigrants
had been given psychotropic drugs against their will over a seven-month period.
Thirty-three of them had no previous psychiatric diagnosis.

The motion comes as part of a lawsuit the American Civil Liberties Union filed
in June on behalf of two men, both of whom were detained at Terminal Island and
then forcibly drugged in the deportation process. The civil-rights group
contends that practice violates both the Bill of Rights and federal law
regarding the medical treatment of detainees, and might constitute torture.

Both were appealing their asylum claims. Neither was ultimately deported, and
both have been released pending their appeals.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Lauri Haley would not comment
about the pending litigation but says the forced medications are exceedingly
rare. When they are necessary, she said they are legal and overseen by "medical
professionals."

JARBO GAP

Game warden kills man

during arrest attempt

A California Department of Fish and Game warden shot and killed a man in a
remote area of the Sierra foothills, the first fatal shooting by a state game
warden in the agency's history.

The warden, who was not injured, exchanged gunfire with the man Monday outside a
trailer near Jarbo Gap, east of Chico.

Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey identified the dead man Tuesday as
Bartyn Pitts, 39, of Dana Point in Orange County. Ramsey said Pitts moved into a
travel trailer on the rural property in April to help tend an illegal marijuana
plot that recently had been harvested.

The warden went to Pitts' trailer Monday to cite him for starting an illegal
fire over the weekend in the Feather River canyon. When the warden radioed in
Pitts' identifying information, he learned Pitts was wanted on a Hawaii warrant
alleging he sold methamphetamine.

Pitts opened fire with a shotgun when the warden returned to the trailer to make
the arrest, Ramsey said. The warden shot back, killing Pitts, Ramsey said.

Authorities hope to complete their investigation by the end of the week.

SIMI VALLEY

Two dead, two injured

in tire shop shooting

A gunman shot a woman to death and wounded two men at a tire shop Tuesday, then
apparently killed himself, police said.

Officers responding to reports of a shooting went to the Tire Pros shop at about
7:30 a.m. and found a "chaotic" scene, Sgt. David Livingstone said. People were
found lying in the office and garage, and all the victims were employees or
customers, he said.

The gunman was found dead at the scene of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot
wound, Livingstone said. Ventura County deputy medical examiner Michael Tellez
said the gunman was Robert Becerra, 29.

Livingstone said a gun was found at the scene but he could not confirm it was
used in the slayings.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday

U.S. announces decline in arrests by Border Patrol;
ANALYSTS DISPUTE CLAIM'S RELEVANCE

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 708 words


The U.S. Border Patrol apprehended 8 percent fewer illegal immigrants last
fiscal year than the year before, reversing a two-year increase in the
historically volatile benchmark, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
announced Monday.

Chertoff credited the drop of nearly 100,000 apprehensions largely to the Bush
administration's strategy of deporting virtually all non-Mexican border crossers
as fast as they are caught, deterring them and others in what had been the
fastest-growing group of illegal migrants. After quadrupling the previous four
years, apprehensions of ``Other than Mexican'' border crossers fell 57,144, or
35 percent, to 108,026 last year.

The total number of apprehensions in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 was
nearly 1.1 million.

More work to do

``We have begun to see, for the first time, a significant turnaround in terms of
the number of illegals that we are finding crossing the border,'' Chertoff said.
``The message here is not, `Time to celebrate; we've done the job.' But rather,
`We ought to be encouraged, but even more determined, to get the job completed.'
''

Analysts immediately disputed Chertoff's claim of an unprecedented decline in
arrests. Border Patrol apprehensions have risen and fallen like a roller coaster
over the years, peaking at almost 1.7 million in 2000 before bottoming out at
932,000 in 2003. Causes include earlier threats of congressional crackdowns, the
security climate after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and changes in
Border Patrol funding and strategies.

Experts instead called Monday's announcement the administration's latest effort
to walk a political tightrope in its handling of illegal immigration before the
Nov. 7 congressional elections.

They said President Bush's aides are trying to placate conservative and other
critics by citing progress in border enforcement. At the same time, the White
House is continuing to push for a broader overhaul of immigration policy,
including a temporary worker program and a chance for 12 million illegal
immigrants to earn citizenship, that is stalled in Congress.

Goal for 2008

Chertoff backed away Monday from the Bush administration's pledge to control the
U.S. borders by 2008, saying it would be ``very, very difficult'' without a
guest-worker program, which the House has resisted. Proponents in Congress say
it would take 18 months to six years to set up such a program, after paying for
a long-needed computerized worker-verification system to manage it.

``I don't think an 8 percent drop in apprehensions is something that we should
even be paying attention to,'' said Demetrios Papademetriou, president of the
Migration Policy Institute, which has called for a comprehensive overhaul of
immigration policy. ``We don't see a trend line in apprehensions, and
apprehensions are not the right yardstick.''

The arrest total does not measure the number of illegal immigrants who evade
capture, experts said.

Steven Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
backs stronger enforcement and decreased immigration, congratulated the
administration for making significant gains, albeit ``very late in the game . .
. from a very low starting point.'' Citing public polling on Americans' attitude
toward immigration, he said, ``The administration finally understands'' that
enforcement ``is the prerequisite, the starting point, the key to any
discussion.''

Report release

Chertoff denied any political motivation for the early release of the Border
Patrol statistics, which are usually reported in January. He said he ``owed the
public kind of a year-end closeout,'' since he made similar reports every few
months.

Chertoff cited ``a very, very significant increase'' and ``dramatic'' shift in
U.S. targeting of employers whose business models are based on the use of
illegal labor. The United States brought 716 criminal work-site enforcement
arrests and charges in 2006, up from 24 in 1999 and 25 in 2002, Chertoff said.

Under the old policy last summer, 80 percent of non-Mexicans apprehended at the
border were let go inside the United States, pending their hearings, because of
a shortage of detention space. But for the past three months, all non-Mexicans
have been held pending expedited deportation.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

VC firms seek open borders for growth;
VENTURE-FUND STUDY: IMMIGRANT FOUNDERS BEHIND MANY START-UPS

BYLINE: Constance Loizos, Mercury News

LENGTH: 704 words


Illegal immigration has been a hot topic in Washington this year, but in the
wake of last week's elections, the venture capital industry is hoping to steer
the conversation instead to legal immigration.

The reason: They argue that lawmakers who have pushed for tighter immigration
controls risk hampering both the high-tech industry and the overall economy.

``Roughly 50 percent of our portfolio companies were started by foreign-born
entrepreneurs,'' said venture capitalist Roger Lee of Battery Ventures on Sand
Hill Road, a self-described ``staunch supporter of more open borders.''

``Out of the last five companies that (we've sold or that have gone public),
three have been founded or led by immigrants. That tells you something,'' he
said.

One tool that may help in Silicon Valley's fight for more open borders is a
study published today by the National Venture Capital Association. Among its
findings are that 47 percent of today's venture-backed start-ups have immigrant
founders, and that over the past 15 years, immigrants have founded 25 percent of
all U.S. public companies that received venture capital.

Those companies, including Google, eBay, Yahoo, Intel and Sun Microsystems,
represent a market capitalization of more than $500 billion and have created
thousands of jobs, according to the report, which took six months to compile.

Companies studied

To gather those numbers, the report's authors examined Thomson Financial's
database of all publicly traded, venture-backed companies founded since 1970. It
eliminated those that had merged, been purchased or were otherwise no longer
trading on the public markets, and then determined the homelands of the
remaining companies' founders.

Its findings might even underestimate the role of immigrants, said NVCA
President Mark Heesen. ``Our board of 27 directors has told us that in the
valley in particular, probably closer to 80 percent of privately held,
venture-backed companies were started by people who immigrated to the U.S.''

One of those founders is Martin Roscheisen, the founder and CEO of solar cell
start-up Nanosolar in Palo Alto, who was born and raised in Munich, Germany, and
has gone on to raise $103 million from more than half a dozen venture capital
firms.

``I didn't have any trouble when I (immigrated) to the U.S. 14 years ago,'' he
said. ``Today, it's quite an issue. We're facing a real shortage of talented
people as a result.''

While difficult to predict the study's impact, its timing may prove auspicious.
``We're very much hoping that Congress will take a (renewed) look at the legal
side of immigration, and the woefully inadequate policies that are currently in
place,'' said Heesen.

Still, opposition remains to the NVCA's efforts. ``Many companies have abused
the program by hiring foreigners to replace American engineers,'' said Ira
Mehlman, a representative of the Federation for Immigration Reform, a non-profit
that supports immigration enforcement and overall reductions in immigration
levels. More, he said, ``You've seen higher corporate profits in which workers
aren't sharing. The law of supply and demand tells you that if there was a
dearth of skilled people, you'd see wage inflation at a time when companies have
more money.''

Visa exemptions

As part of its efforts, the NVCA is lobbying to promote the passage of the SKIL
Act of 2006, now before the House Judiciary Committee. The bill, introduced in
late June, would exempt from current visa caps any foreigner who has earned a
master's or higher degree from an accredited U.S. university or been awarded
certification based on his or her post-doctoral training.

The SKIL Act -- which stands for the Securing Knowledge, Innovation, and
Leadership Act -- would also increase the number of H-1B visas awarded every
year, from 65,000 to 125,000, with a 20 percent increase in visas the following
year if the previous year's quota is reached. H-1B visas, reserved for highly
skilled guest workers, were first awarded in 1990, but the number of the visas
was capped in 2004 at 65,000 by lawmakers alarmed by how big the program had
grown. (From 2001 through 2003, roughly 195,000 H-1B visas were awarded
annually.)

Contact Constance Loizos at cloizos@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5920.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 522 words

Illegal immigrants' health costs studied

Health care for illegal immigrants ages 18 to 64 cost U.S. taxpayers $1.1
billion in 2000 -- or about $11 per household -- according to a study released
Tuesday by the Rand Corp.

``There are taxpayer implications to illegal immigration, but health care is not
one of them,'' said Jim Smith, a senior economist with Rand and author of the
study, published in the November/December edition of the journal Health Affairs.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform questioned the study's
conclusions, saying it estimates the total cost of health care for undocumented
immigrants in California alone at $1.4 billion.

``From the studies that we have done,'' the Rand study ``certainly is a low-ball
estimate,'' said Jack Martin of FAIR.

The Rand study, which surveyed Los Angeles County residents about their use of
health-care services and then used national estimates on cost to put a price tag
on the care, found that nearly 22 percent of undocumented immigrants had health
insurance, which covered about $362 million in costs in 2000.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Assessment missing of India's nuclear plan

Congressional leaders requested a secret intelligence assessment of India's
nuclear program and its government's ties to Iran in January amid concerns about
a White House effort to provide nuclear technology to New Delhi. Ten months
later, as the Senate prepares to vote on nuclear trade with India, the
intelligence assessment has yet to be seen on Capitol Hill, congressional and
intelligence sources say.

The nuclear deal with India would reverse years of U.S. policies aimed at
preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. U.S. law forbids selling civilian
nuclear technology to countries such as India that have refused to sign the
Non-Proliferation Treaty.

Arms-control experts, concerned that the deal would have major ramifications for
U.S. efforts to stop nuclear programs in Iran and North Korea, said Tuesday that
the White House plan would allow India to rapidly increase its nuclear arsenal.

CALIFORNIA

Marines turn down Bible-quoting dolls

A company that sells Bible-quoting Jesus dolls said it was disappointed that the
Marine Corps Reserves' Toys for Tots program turned down its offer to donate
4,000 of the talking dolls.

``I believe, as a churchgoing person, anyone can benefit from hearing the words
of the Bible,'' said Michael La Roe of Valencia-based Beverly Hills Teddy Bear
Co.

Bill Grein, vice president of Marine Toys for Tots Foundation, in Quantico, Va.,
said the offer was turned down because Toys for Tots does not know anything
about the religious affiliations of the children who receive its gifts.

``We can't take a chance on sending a talking Jesus doll to a Jewish family or a
Muslim family,'' Grein said. ``Kids want a gift for the holiday season that is
fun.''

COLORADO

Near-blizzard conditions close some highways

A winter storm dropped a foot of snow on parts of Colorado on Tuesday, bringing
high winds and closing highways, with more accumulation possible in some areas.

A foot of snow fell at the Eisenhower Tunnel, about 50 miles west of Denver.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

VC firms seek open borders for growth;
VENTURE-FUND STUDY: IMMIGRANT FOUNDERS BEHIND MANY START-UPS

BYLINE: Constance Loizos, Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 704 words


Illegal immigration has been a hot topic in Washington this year, but in the
wake of last week's elections, the venture capital industry is hoping to steer
the conversation instead to legal immigration.

The reason: They argue that lawmakers who have pushed for tighter immigration
controls risk hampering both the high-tech industry and the overall economy.

``Roughly 50 percent of our portfolio companies were started by foreign-born
entrepreneurs,'' said venture capitalist Roger Lee of Battery Ventures on Sand
Hill Road, a self-described ``staunch supporter of more open borders.''

``Out of the last five companies that (we've sold or that have gone public),
three have been founded or led by immigrants. That tells you something,'' he
said.

One tool that may help in Silicon Valley's fight for more open borders is a
study published today by the National Venture Capital Association. Among its
findings are that 47 percent of today's venture-backed start-ups have immigrant
founders, and that over the past 15 years, immigrants have founded 25 percent of
all U.S. public companies that received venture capital.

Those companies, including Google, eBay, Yahoo, Intel and Sun Microsystems,
represent a market capitalization of more than $500 billion and have created
thousands of jobs, according to the report, which took six months to compile.

Companies studied

To gather those numbers, the report's authors examined Thomson Financial's
database of all publicly traded, venture-backed companies founded since 1970. It
eliminated those that had merged, been purchased or were otherwise no longer
trading on the public markets, and then determined the homelands of the
remaining companies' founders.

Its findings might even underestimate the role of immigrants, said NVCA
President Mark Heesen. ``Our board of 27 directors has told us that in the
valley in particular, probably closer to 80 percent of privately held,
venture-backed companies were started by people who immigrated to the U.S.''

One of those founders is Martin Roscheisen, the founder and CEO of solar cell
start-up Nanosolar in Palo Alto, who was born and raised in Munich, Germany, and
has gone on to raise $103 million from more than half a dozen venture capital
firms.

``I didn't have any trouble when I (immigrated) to the U.S. 14 years ago,'' he
said. ``Today, it's quite an issue. We're facing a real shortage of talented
people as a result.''

While difficult to predict the study's impact, its timing may prove auspicious.
``We're very much hoping that Congress will take a (renewed) look at the legal
side of immigration, and the woefully inadequate policies that are currently in
place,'' said Heesen.

Still, opposition remains to the NVCA's efforts. ``Many companies have abused
the program by hiring foreigners to replace American engineers,'' said Ira
Mehlman, a representative of the Federation for Immigration Reform, a non-profit
that supports immigration enforcement and overall reductions in immigration
levels. More, he said, ``You've seen higher corporate profits in which workers
aren't sharing. The law of supply and demand tells you that if there was a
dearth of skilled people, you'd see wage inflation at a time when companies have
more money.''

Visa exemptions

As part of its efforts, the NVCA is lobbying to promote the passage of the SKIL
Act of 2006, now before the House Judiciary Committee. The bill, introduced in
late June, would exempt from current visa caps any foreigner who has earned a
master's or higher degree from an accredited U.S. university or been awarded
certification based on his or her post-doctoral training.

The SKIL Act -- which stands for the Securing Knowledge, Innovation, and
Leadership Act -- would also increase the number of H-1B visas awarded every
year, from 65,000 to 125,000, with a 20 percent increase in visas the following
year if the previous year's quota is reached. H-1B visas, reserved for highly
skilled guest workers, were first awarded in 1990, but the number of the visas
was capped in 2004 at 65,000 by lawmakers alarmed by how big the program had
grown. (From 2001 through 2003, roughly 195,000 H-1B visas were awarded
annually.)

Contact Constance Loizos at cloizos@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5920.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 12, 2007 Friday

Most don't want illegal immigrants in health plan, poll says

BYLINE: Mike Zapler, MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 373 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger wants to cover illegal immigrants as part of his
universal health care plan, but a new poll shows that a majority of Californians
oppose that idea.

Only 37 percent of adults, and 32 percent of voters, say illegal immigrants
should be included, according to the poll taken Jan. 2-6 by the Survey and
Policy Research Institute at San Jose State University. However, 52 percent of
adults, and 50 percent of voters, say the government should guarantee health
insurance for everyone, as opposed to relying on employers or individuals to
provide coverage.

The results are a mixed bag for the Republican governor, who this week unveiled
a sweeping universal health care proposal. The plan would force most businesses
to cover their workers or pay 4 percent of payroll into a state fund; require
doctors and hospitals to pay 2 and 4 percent of their revenue to the state, in
return for getting higher reimbursements for treating the poor and disabled; and
mandate that insurance companies accept all customers regardless of their
medical history.

The governor would also extend coverage to illegal immigrants and their
children, an idea Republicans overwhelmingly reject and a majority of residents
overall oppose, according to the poll. Schwarzenegger says undocumented
immigrants get treatment anyway at emergency rooms, which are legally bound to
provide care to everyone. He says insuring them would be far less costly.

``This is a very sensitive issue,'' Schwarzenegger said this week. ``So what I'm
trying to figure out is, how do we do it cheaper than what we are doing right
now?''

People may be receptive to that argument, but the governor will have to convince
them, said Philip J. Trounstine, the institute's director.

``If Schwarzenegger and the Democrats want to have mass public opinion on their
side, they're going to have to make that argument widely,'' Trounstine said,
noting that by a 2-1 ratio Californians favor granting legal residency to
undocumented immigrants. ``People in California are not anti-immigrant.''
Republicans say the plan would make the state a magnet for illegal immigrants,
putting an even bigger burden on state finances.

Contact Mike Zapler at (916) 441-4603 or mzapler@mercury news.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday

Silicon Valley reads Boyle;
CHOSEN FOR 2007 COMMUNITY READING PROGRAM, 1995 IMMIGRATION NOVEL RINGS TRUER
THAN EVER

BYLINE: Javier Erik Olvera, Mercury News

SECTION: AE; Pg. BOK

LENGTH: 777 words


Author T.C. Boyle felt surrounded.

Everywhere he turned, he saw headlines about tension increasing over the number
of undocumented immigrants in California, and chiefly Los Angeles, where he
lived.

It was the early 1990s -- about the time that the immigration debate was finding
an audience in California and nationwide.

Boyle -- considered one of the best satirical writers of our time -- asked
friends what they thought of the issue; he heard a wide range of responses,
including the unlikely from liberals.

``At the time, there was a lot of dissension,'' said Boyle, a 58-year-old who
dresses like a teenage skateboarder, complete with red Chuck Taylor Converse
shoes, black rubber bracelets and a skull pinky ring.

All was fodder for his most famous novel, ``The Tortilla Curtain,'' which looks
at immigration through the struggles of an undocumented couple and a yuppie
couple whose lives become intertwined after a car accident.

The novel is the latest selection for Silicon Valley Reads, a program begun in
2003 to broaden the region's exposure to literature and promote reading with a
series of related events. This year's schedule runs through February.

The novel -- which takes on the program's most controversial issue yet -- was
chosen for several reasons, including its timeliness, said Jane Light, library
director for the city of San Jose and program co-chair.

``It stays with you,'' she said, adding that Boyle wrote about the immigration
issue in such a way that it ``makes you feel uncomfortable'' because it's
realistic. ``It's the kind of book that gets people talking.''

Light said program leaders first considered the novel two years ago but decided
to go with another selection, only to come back to it this year.

The program ends on Feb. 28, when Boyle -- who describes himself as ``a
workaholic nut ball'' -- will appear at the Mexican Heritage Plaza in San Jose
to discuss the novel.

Boyle, a writing professor at the University of Southern California, won't talk
about his own views on immigration, saying he doesn't want them to have an
effect on readers, preferring that readers ``come to their decisions by
themselves.''

``The Tortilla Curtain'' -- published in 1995 -- doesn't take any one side of
the immigration debate, but instead highlights its arguments through the
struggles faced by the two neighboring couples:

The immigrants, who search for steady work to escape their makeshift home in the
woods near Los Angeles, and the well-to-do couple, who live in an adjacent
upscale neighborhood where guarded gates are set up to keep strangers out.

When he began to write, Boyle didn't know how the story would begin or end --
something he has done with most of his other novels, which include ``World's
End,'' ``East Is East'' and ``Talk Talk.''

Boyle also doesn't work with an outline, developing the characters as he writes.

``A story is an act of the imagination,'' he said. ``Anything I want, I can make
happen. That's what writers are supposed to do.''

In ``The Tortilla Curtain,'' he paints the story around Topanga Canyon, near the
area of Los Angeles where he lived for several years. (He now lives near Santa
Barbara.) It follows Delaney and Kyra Mossbacher, liberals who live in an
upscale subdivision, which the homeowners want to block from outsiders by
placing a guarded gate at the front.

Candido and America Rincon live in a makeshift camp in the canyon. They only
leave the camp to work at day labor sites so they can have enough money to eat
and save for an apartment.

Their lives become intertwined when Delaney's car hits and injures Candido as
he's crossing the street along the canyon, tossing him into the brush.

The novel goes in and out of the couples' lives, chronicling the immigration
debate as one set of characters pursues happiness and the other wants them to
leave the country.

Boyle uses satire -- which a Baltimore Sun reviewer likened to the work of Woody
Allen -- throughout the story, something he said makes people think about their
own behavior.

In an Esquire magazine review, Boyle was praised for creating ``a memorable
portrait of the almost imperceptible slide from decency to intolerance that
occurs when ordinary people feel threatened by alien forces.''

Boyle says he simply wanted to illustrate the issue he saw around him and wasn't
out to make a point.

The book has since taken on a life of its own, gaining popularity as the debate
over immigration intensifies.

Dozens of community reading programs have used the book.

``It has become more relevant now than it ever has,'' he said.

THE TORTILLA CURTAIN

T.C. Boyle, Penguin, 368 pp., $14

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday

Minutemen rally on Peninsula with hot words

BYLINE: Michael Manekin, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 594 words


For three hours on a warm Saturday afternoon, the ongoing national immigration
crisis simmered at a busy intersection on El Camino Real. Two weeks after
federal immigration officials arrested seven illegal immigrants in a surprise
sweep -- injecting fear into the city's large Latino community -- the Minutemen
arrived in the heart of the city for a rally.

The event drew about 75 anti-immigration advocates and a counter-protest of a
couple dozen. The rally pitched an anti-illegal immigrant message that
organizers hope will persuade local residents to throw in their lot with the Bay
Area chapter of a group that has attracted international headlines for its
unofficial and controversial border patrol operations.

``The Minutemen are doing what the government has not done,'' said Harriet, a
middle-aged resident who declined to give her last name. ``I'm for everything
they're doing because they're the ones protecting us from the garbage coming in
here -- all those illiterates who can't read or write in their own language.''

The rally, organizers said, was arranged before the raid by the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement operations, and was being held to support two U.S.
Border Patrol agents who have been sentenced to 10 years in prison for shooting
an alleged drug smuggler in the buttocks after he had crossed the border.

``My relatives came here legally -- they had to wait in line,'' said Richard
Kusialek, who drove from Mountain View for the rally. ``Why is it that these
folks can just walk across the border and get free hospital, free education for
their kids? And, of course, they think they have a right to a job, too. It's
ridiculous.''

Saturday's rally and a small nearby counter-demonstration coexisted peacefully
-- although the air was testy.

``Go home. We can pick our own vegetables,'' Kusialek shouted at a group of
Latinas who were crossing the street to join the pro-immigrant protest.

``If they really pick their own vegetables, then what are they doing here?''
snapped Violeta Ortega in Spanish.

``Speak English,'' Kusialek shot back.

Ortega, a city resident since 1970, sighed. ``It hurts me what they're doing
here,'' she said. ``For me, this is a lot of ignorant people.''

The counter-protest remained small.

``A lot of us feel they're not worth our energy,'' said Sheryl Bergman of the
International Institute of San Francisco, whose Redwood City office educates
undocumented immigrants of their constitutional rights in the face of federal
immigration policy.

``The Minutemen are scared because other local communities, such as Richmond and
San Francisco, have taken very strong pro-immigration stances, and they're
afraid that the positions that respect and honor diversity will spread,''
Bergman said.

Less than a year old, the Golden Gate Minutemen, the Bay Area chapter of the
Minutemen, formed in May 2006 in response to the nationwide pro-immigration
rallies, according to Charles Birkman. The rallies -- which brought out hundreds
of thousands Latinos across the nation to protest a controversial congressional
bill on immigration -- are widely credited with putting immigration changes in
the national spotlight.

``This rally was very successful,'' said Birkman, adding that the ``awesome''
attendance far exceeded his expectations. In the future, he said, there will be
more rallies on the Peninsula, and he was optimistic about starting a Redwood
City chapter to lobby local politicians to enforce federal immigration laws.

Michael Manekin can be reached at (650) 348-4331 or by e-mail at mmanekin@
sanmateocountytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

Activists seek sanctuary for workers who are undocumented

BYLINE: Michael Manekin, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 525 words


Nearly three weeks after federal immigration raids unnerved Redwood City's large
Latino community, a dozen immigrant advocacy groups have formed a coalition
aiming to convert Redwood City and San Mateo County into a haven for
undocumented immigrants.

``Our vision would be for Redwood City and San Mateo County to be a community
that's safe for all of its residents,'' said Sheryl Bergman of the International
Institute of San Francisco, whose Redwood City office assists the local Latino
community. ``We want public assurance from our local leadership that parents
will be safe when they walk their children to school.''

To combat fear and paranoia, the newly formed Redwood City Immigrant Rights
Coalition -- which includes the International Institute, El Concilio of San
Mateo County and a variety of non-profits, many already working with the local
Latino community -- is recommending that local government intervene.

The coalition is drafting a resolution that it will send to Redwood City's city
council and the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors. The hope, Bergman said,
is that officials will sign a similar resolution denouncing the recent sweeps by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and declaring the county and the city
``sanctuaries'' for undocumented immigrants.

Underground economy

Since the raids, Bergman said, some in the city are still living in fear. Rather
than walk their children to school, many parents have asked U.S. citizens to do
it for them. Meanwhile, a small underground economy has formed on the back of
undocumented immigrants too fearful to go to market: Citizens and the fearless
among the immigrants have taken to shopping for milk and rice, charging a fee
for their services.

The Richmond City Council passed a resolution condemning the immigration sweeps,
and the San Francisco Board of Supervisors is to consider a similar resolution
at the end of the month. Although Immigration and Customs Enforcement
spokeswoman Virginia Kice declined to say whether local officials' condemnation
would affect federal anti-illegal-immigrant operations, the Redwood City
Immigrant Rights Coalition says it believes a local condemnation would make an
important symbolic stance against ``a broken national immigration system'' and
comfort a shaken community.

Members of the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors and Redwood City's city
council did not return calls for comment Wednesday.

Legal education

The coalition also intends to step up legal education for undocumented
immigrants, holding workshops and training sessions on constitutional rights for
residents living here illegally. It also plans to pool resources to assist
families affected by the arrest of undocumented immigrants during future
immigration operations.

The recent Immigration and Customs Enforcement sweeps are part of the federal
agency's ``Operation Return to Sender,'' a stepped-up campaign to round up
undocumented immigrants with arrest or deportation records. Since June, the
operation has arrested more than 13,000 residents, many without any prior
charges, Kice said.

Contact Michael Manekin at mmanekin@sanmateocounty times.com or (650) 348-4331.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 2, 2007 Friday

House to reconsider bill to help kids of illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 708 words


The Dream Act, a controversial proposal that would give the children of illegal
immigrants who graduate from U.S. high schools legal status, and eventually a
path to citizenship, was re-introduced this week in the U.S. House of
Representatives, giving its many longtime supporters in the Bay Area and around
the country hope for its passage in a new Democrat-controlled Congress.

Since 2002, at least four versions of the legislation have been introduced
unsuccessfully in both chambers, each time with bi-partisan support. A similar
bill is now in the works in the U.S. Senate, as part of a larger immigration
reform bill that's expected in the coming weeks.

At a news conference Friday morning in San Francisco, parents of immigrant
children and immigrant advocates praised the new bill not as an amnesty, but a
chance ``to give a future to these children.''

``These youngsters don't belong in the streets,'' said Guadalupe Siordia-Ortiz,
a member of a Bay Area immigrant parents group, Comite de Padres Unidos. ``We
need these children in colleges because they can contribute back to society.''

Hector Vega, a 19-year-old freshman at Santa Clara University and an illegal
immigrant who was brought as a child from Mexico by his mother, said he is
``happy and hopeful.''

``I'm really glad that efforts are still continuing for this measure,'' said
Vega, who is in his second quarter at the university on a full scholarship. ``I
feel more hopeful now because the Democrats are in control.''

Although previous proposals had bi-partisan support, Republican-led opposition
in both the House and Senate kept the Dream Act languishing in committees.

As in previous proposals, the new Dream Act would allow high school graduates
like Vega -- he was a valedictorian at James Lick High School -- temporary legal
status, and when they attend college or serve in the military, qualify for legal
permanent residence.

But one of Dream Act's long-time opponents, The Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), immediately slammed the new proposal.

``It's one tactic to break up amnesty into little pieces that's digestible for
the public,'' said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for FAIR, a group that has opposed the
Dream Act since it was first introduced in 2002.

``It's still an amnesty,'' he said, ``a policy that says you can break the law,
get your kid through school, then be rewarded with a green card and a tax-payer
subsidized college education.''

Each year, an estimated 65,000 students brought as children to the United States
by their illegal immigrant parents, graduate from American high schools.
California, Texas and New York are among the states that have passed laws
allowing these students to enroll in public colleges and pay the cheaper
in-state tuition rates.

But uncertainty of the lives of these students continue after graduation, said
Rep. Howard Berman, a Democrat from Los Angeles.

``When they finish high school, these students must choose between working
illegally,'' Berman said in a news release, ``or trying somehow to continue
their education while under a legal cloud.''

And even those lucky enough to receive scholarships and graduate from college
must live with that legal uncertainty, said Rev. Sonny Manuel, rector of the
Jesuit community at SCU, where a number of illegal immigrants have attended the
private school on scholarships and graduated in the past.

``As graduating seniors, their opportunities are really limited,'' Manuel said.
``I know some of them want to go into teaching, medicine and contribute to
society. This will give them hope.''

In the new Democrat-led Congress, San Jose Democrat U.S. Zoe Lofgren, new chair
of the House subcommittee on immigration, said there is impetus from
congressional leaders.

``I want to get it done,'' Lofgren said. ``And the speaker wants to get it done.
That's a big departure from the last 12 years.''

Supporters of the new Dream Act said they are optimistic.

``I think the chances are better than ever,'' said Judith Golub, executive
director of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. ``It's more
and more clear we need to reform our immigration laws, why, specifically, Dream
Act needs to be passed.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday

Bill offers hope of legal status for immigrants

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


The Dream Act, a controversial proposal that would give some children of illegal
immigrants who graduated from U.S. high schools legal status, and eventually a
path to citizenship, was re-introduced this week in the U.S. House of
Representatives. In a Congress newly controlled by Democrats, supporters and
immigrant advocates in the Bay Area and around the country are expressing new
hope for its passage.

``These youngsters don't belong in the streets,'' said Guadalupe Siordia-Ortiz,
a member of a Bay Area immigrant parents group, Comité de Padres Unidos. ``We
need these children in colleges because they can contribute back to society.''

At a news conference Friday morning, advocates praised the new bill not as an
amnesty, but a chance ``to give a future to these children.''

The measure would apply only to children who were brought across the border by
parents. At this point, it is undecided whether the bill would apply
retroactively, or what the cutoff period would be.

Since 2002, at least four versions of the legislation have been introduced in
both chambers, with bi-partisan support -- but each one failed. Republican-led
opposition in both the House and Senate kept the Dream Act languishing in
committees.

Now, new companion legislation is also in the works in the U.S. Senate as part
of a larger immigration reform bill that's expected in the coming weeks.

Legal status

As in previous proposals, the new Dream Act will allow high school graduates
temporary legal status, and when they attend college or serve in the military,
to qualify for legal permanent residence.

Hector Vega, a 19-year-old freshman at Santa Clara University and an illegal
immigrant who was brought as a child from Mexico by his mother, said on Friday
that he was ``happy and hopeful,'' about the new legislation under a different
Congress.

``I'm really glad that efforts are still continuing for this measure,'' said
Vega, who is in his second quarter at the university on a full scholarship. ``I
feel more hopeful now because the Democrats are in control.''

But one of Dream Act's long time opponents, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, immediately slammed the new proposal and vowed to lobby to
defeat it.

``It's one tactic to break up amnesty into little pieces that's digestible for
the public,'' said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for FAIR, which has opposed the Dream
Act since it was first introduced. ``It's still an amnesty, a policy that says
you can break the law, get your kid through school, then be rewarded with a
green card and a taxpayer-subsidized college education.''

Lives of uncertainty

Each year, an estimated 65,000 students brought as children to the United States
by their illegal immigrant parents graduate from American high schools.
California, Texas, New York and other states have laws now that allow these
students to enroll in public colleges and pay the cheaper in-state tuition
rates.

But the uncertainty of the lives of these students continues after graduation,
said Rep. Howard Berman, a Democrat from Van Nuys.

``When they finish high school, these students must choose between working
illegally,'' Berman said in a news release, ``or trying somehow to continue
their education while under a legal cloud.''

And even those lucky enough to receive scholarships and graduate from college
must live with that legal uncertainty, said the Rev. Sonny Manuel, rector of the
Jesuit community at SCU, where a number of illegal immigrants have received
scholarships to attend the private school and have graduated in years past.

``As graduating seniors, their opportunities are really limited,'' Manuel said.
``I know some of them want to go into teaching, medicine and contribute to
society. This will give them hope.''

Supporters of the new Dream Act said they are optimistic.

``I think the chances are better than ever,'' said Judith Golub, executive
director of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. ``It's more
and more clear we need to reform our immigration laws, why the Dream Act needs
to be passed.''

In the new Congress, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, new chair of the House
subcommittee on immigration, said there is impetus from congressional leaders.

``I want to get it done,'' Lofgren said. ``And the speaker wants to get it done.
That's a big departure from the last 12 years.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercury news.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday

Bill offers hope of legal status for immigrants

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


The Dream Act, a controversial proposal that would give some children of illegal
immigrants who graduated from U.S. high schools legal status, and eventually a
path to citizenship, was re-introduced this week in the U.S. House of
Representatives. In a Congress newly controlled by Democrats, supporters and
immigrant advocates in the Bay Area and around the country are expressing new
hope for its passage.

``These youngsters don't belong in the streets,'' said Guadalupe Siordia-Ortiz,
a member of a Bay Area immigrant parents group, Comité de Padres Unidos. ``We
need these children in colleges because they can contribute back to society.''

At a news conference Friday morning, advocates praised the new bill not as an
amnesty, but a chance ``to give a future to these children.''

The measure would apply only to children who were brought across the border by
parents. At this point, it is undecided whether the bill would apply
retroactively, or what the cutoff period would be.

Since 2002, at least four versions of the legislation have been introduced in
both chambers, with bi-partisan support -- but each one failed. Republican-led
opposition in both the House and Senate kept the Dream Act languishing in
committees.

Now, new companion legislation is also in the works in the U.S. Senate as part
of a larger immigration reform bill that's expected in the coming weeks.

Legal status

As in previous proposals, the new Dream Act will allow high school graduates
temporary legal status, and when they attend college or serve in the military,
to qualify for legal permanent residence.

Hector Vega, a 19-year-old freshman at Santa Clara University and an illegal
immigrant who was brought as a child from Mexico by his mother, said on Friday
that he was ``happy and hopeful,'' about the new legislation under a different
Congress.

``I'm really glad that efforts are still continuing for this measure,'' said
Vega, who is in his second quarter at the university on a full scholarship. ``I
feel more hopeful now because the Democrats are in control.''

But one of Dream Act's long time opponents, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, immediately slammed the new proposal and vowed to lobby to
defeat it.

``It's one tactic to break up amnesty into little pieces that's digestible for
the public,'' said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for FAIR, which has opposed the Dream
Act since it was first introduced. ``It's still an amnesty, a policy that says
you can break the law, get your kid through school, then be rewarded with a
green card and a taxpayer-subsidized college education.''

Lives of uncertainty

Each year, an estimated 65,000 students brought as children to the United States
by their illegal immigrant parents graduate from American high schools.
California, Texas, New York and other states have laws now that allow these
students to enroll in public colleges and pay the cheaper in-state tuition
rates.

But the uncertainty of the lives of these students continues after graduation,
said Rep. Howard Berman, a Democrat from Van Nuys.

``When they finish high school, these students must choose between working
illegally,'' Berman said in a news release, ``or trying somehow to continue
their education while under a legal cloud.''

And even those lucky enough to receive scholarships and graduate from college
must live with that legal uncertainty, said the Rev. Sonny Manuel, rector of the
Jesuit community at SCU, where a number of illegal immigrants have received
scholarships to attend the private school and have graduated in years past.

``As graduating seniors, their opportunities are really limited,'' Manuel said.
``I know some of them want to go into teaching, medicine and contribute to
society. This will give them hope.''

Supporters of the new Dream Act said they are optimistic.

``I think the chances are better than ever,'' said Judith Golub, executive
director of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. ``It's more
and more clear we need to reform our immigration laws, why the Dream Act needs
to be passed.''

In the new Congress, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, new chair of the House
subcommittee on immigration, said there is impetus from congressional leaders.

``I want to get it done,'' Lofgren said. ``And the speaker wants to get it done.
That's a big departure from the last 12 years.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercury news.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday

Civil rights groups react to raids;
CALL FOR GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS FOLLOWS ABUSE ALLEGATIONS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 621 words


Recent raids and roundups of illegal immigrants have led two Bay Area civil
rights organizations and a San Francisco weekly newspaper to file a legal
request seeking government documents and records related to the arrests of more
than 800 illegal immigrants in Northern California.

The American Civil Liberties Union joined the Lawyer's Committee for Civil
Rights and the San Francisco Bay Guardian in filing a Freedom of Information Act
request. The groups filed the request with Immigration and Customs Enforcement
for documents that lawyers said may shed light on allegations of illegal
searches and mistreatment of immigrants by federal agents.

The recent sweeps -- in Contra Costa, Fresno, San Benito, Santa Cruz, San
Francisco and San Mateo counties -- have resulted in the arrest of 500 illegal
immigrants who evaded deportation orders, including those with criminal
convictions that make them deportable. In addition, 338 more illegal immigrants,
those without documents or who overstayed their visas, were also caught.

The arrests are part of a nationwide federal crackdown called ``Operation Return
to Sender,'' which targets immigrants who have been ordered deported or those
with criminal convictions.

``The ACLU is very concerned about the reports we've heard about abusive tactics
that may violate people's rights,'' said attorney Julia Harumi Mass of the
Northern California chapter of the ACLU. ``As a civil rights organization, we're
investigating these concerns.''

The sweeps have struck fear in immigrant communities across the Bay Area, and
for weeks now, immigrant advocates have been hearing reports of illegal search
and entry, roundups near schools, and ICE agents posing as local police.
Government leaders and law enforcement officials have also expressed concerns
about the raids.

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice declined to comment on the FOIA request. But she
said that there have been no official complaints filed with the agency alleging
mistreatment of illegal immigrants or unprofessional conduct by ICE agents.

``Our agents conduct themselves professionally,'' she said. ``If people believe
they've been mistreated, there's a clear-cut reporting process to bring those
allegations forward. And complaints will be fully investigated.''

Kice also said all complaints filed with ICE go to the Office of the Inspector
General.

Since it was started in 2006, about 18,000 people have been arrested nationwide
in the program that targets immigrants who have criminal convictions, and
immigrants who have outstanding deportation orders, Kice said. The priority is
on detaining and deporting these immigrants. But in the course of the sweeps,
other illegal immigrants have also been arrested.

ICE has 52 teams of agents on the mission nationwide, three of them in the Bay
Area. The program is adding 23 new enforcement teams across the country by the
end of the year. Two new teams, one in Fresno and another in Sacramento, are
expected to be added, Kice said.

``It's not just about the sweeps,'' said Larisa Casillas, director of the Bay
Area Immigrant Rights Coalition, an umbrella group of non-profit immigrant
advocacy organizations.

``It's also just about their presence in the community,'' she said. ``The signal
is very threatening. Communities are feeling a lot of fear and feeling
terrorized by ICE.''

Last week, hundreds of immigrants and their advocates marched in San Francisco
calling on ICE to end the sweeps and push Congress for immigration reform.

Also last week, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, chair of the House
subcommittee on immigration, wrote ICE Assistant Secretary Julie Myers to ask
for details about the program.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews .com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday

Foreign victims of crime in limbo;
U.S. FAILS TO CARRY OUT LAW ON SPECIAL VISAS, SUIT SAYS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words


Six years ago, Congress passed a law to allow illegal immigrants who were
victims of crimes in the United States to apply for a special visa to remain
here, but not one visa has been issued yet, and a group of immigrants has filed
a class-action suit against the federal government over the delay.

A national coalition of immigrant and women's advocates decried the delay as
``unconscionable'' and a violation of the law because the government is
authorized by Congress to issue 10,000 so-called U visas a year to victims of
rape, domestic violence and other crimes.

The regulations and procedures on how to apply for the visa have yet to be
written by the Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, according to the lawsuit. Both agencies are named as
defendants in the lawsuit.

The delay, ``not only unlawfully ignores an existing law, it also discourages
immigrant victims of crimes from reporting such crimes and cooperating with law
enforcement,'' the lawsuit contends, ``and more importantly often allows the
perpetrators of crimes to avoid arrest and conviction for such crime.''

When Congress passed the Crime Victims Act, signed in 2000, it was meant as a
humanitarian response, and a practical one, to crimes against immigrants, many
of them women who are victims of domestic violence. Illegal immigrant victims of
crime may be wary of reporting the crime; when they do cooperate with law
enforcement, it helps police get criminals off the streets.

Citizenship and Immigration Services spokeswoman Sharon Rummery declined to
comment on the lawsuit but said delays have to do with the difficulty of writing
regulations for a complex law.

``The U visa regulations deal with complex issues,'' she said, ``balancing law
enforcement and humanitarian concerns and the need for inter-agency cooperation
on several levels of government.''

Rummery said the program allows the agency to issue temporary legal status and
work permits to immigrant crime victims while the regulations are pending. ``The
fact is no one is being hurt by the delays because people are being granted
interim relief,'' Rummery said

One of the individual plaintiffs in the lawsuit is Maria Estervina Perez, an
immigrant from El Salvador, who is a domestic violence victim.

In a 2005 article in the Mercury News, Perez, a housekeeper who now lives in
Menlo Park, recounted abuse she suffered at the hands of her then-boyfriend. She
told how she felt helpless because she was also an illegal immigrant. With the
help of an East Palo Alto attorney, Mary Dutcher, immigration program director
at Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto, Perez obtained temporary status,
and protection from the boyfriend who was convicted of domestic violence.

Perez was granted a work permit late last year.

``It's great,'' she said Wednesday of the filing of the lawsuit. ``It might help
more people like me.''

But without regulations, what Perez and an estimated 5,000 others nationwide
have received is not a U visa. It is a kind of stop-gap measure -- called
``interim relief'' -- that temporarily protects them from deportation, while the
government wrestles with writing the regulations for the law.

Women's advocates across the country have been negotiating with various
government agencies for years to get the Crime Victims Act implemented, but to
no avail. A similar lawsuit was filed in Los Angeles federal court in fall 2005.
Early in 2006, Congress mandated that the law be implemented within 180 days.
The Department of Homeland Security, which oversees Citizenship and Immigration
Services, sought and received from Congress an extension to July 2006.

The first and second lawsuits were filed by the Center for Human Rights and
Constitutional Law, a legal advocacy group based in Los Angeles.

``Without clarity, we haven't been able to do the outreach we'd like to have
done,'' said Susan Bowyer, managing attorney for the International Institute of
the East Bay, a social service agency that helped 82 immigrant crime victims
obtain a temporary status. The agency is one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit.

Bowyer said she's worried that because the U visa has not been formalized, many
crime victims who cooperate with law enforcement are not being reached.
Advocates in the Bay Area and elsewhere have said that many crime victims have
chosen not to apply for temporary status because of the uncertainty about U visa
regulations.

``It's really unconscionable that after waiting for six years that it's still
not promulgated,'' said Sally Kinoshita, a staff attorney at the Immigrant Legal
Resource Center in San Francisco who wrote a manual on applying for temporary
status while the regulations are pending.

Kinoshita and other advocates also said immigrants such as Perez could have been
applying for permanent legal residence by now, instead of spending years in
limbo on their temporary status. Among other things, this would give them the
freedom to travel back to their home countries to see their families.

``The regulations are long overdue,'' said Dutcher. ``Maria could be a resident
by now and travel to see her family abroad.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday

Foreign victims of crime in limbo;
U.S. FAILS TO CARRY OUT LAW ON SPECIAL VISAS, SUIT SAYS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words


Six years ago, Congress passed a law to allow illegal immigrants who were
victims of crimes in the United States to apply for a special visa to remain
here, but not one visa has been issued yet, and a group of immigrants has filed
a class-action suit against the federal government over the delay.

A national coalition of immigrant and women's advocates decried the delay as
``unconscionable'' and a violation of the law because the government is
authorized by Congress to issue 10,000 so-called U visas a year to victims of
rape, domestic violence and other crimes.

The regulations and procedures on how to apply for the visa have yet to be
written by the Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, according to the lawsuit. Both agencies are named as
defendants in the lawsuit.

The delay, ``not only unlawfully ignores an existing law, it also discourages
immigrant victims of crimes from reporting such crimes and cooperating with law
enforcement,'' the lawsuit contends, ``and more importantly often allows the
perpetrators of crimes to avoid arrest and conviction for such crime.''

When Congress passed the Crime Victims Act, signed in 2000, it was meant as a
humanitarian response, and a practical one, to crimes against immigrants, many
of them women who are victims of domestic violence. Illegal immigrant victims of
crime may be wary of reporting the crime; when they do cooperate with law
enforcement, it helps police get criminals off the streets.

Citizenship and Immigration Services spokeswoman Sharon Rummery declined to
comment on the lawsuit but said delays have to do with the difficulty of writing
regulations for a complex law.

``The U visa regulations deal with complex issues,'' she said, ``balancing law
enforcement and humanitarian concerns and the need for inter-agency cooperation
on several levels of government.''

Rummery said the program allows the agency to issue temporary legal status and
work permits to immigrant crime victims while the regulations are pending. ``The
fact is no one is being hurt by the delays because people are being granted
interim relief,'' Rummery said

One of the individual plaintiffs in the lawsuit is Maria Estervina Perez, an
immigrant from El Salvador, who is a domestic violence victim.

In a 2005 article in the Mercury News, Perez, a housekeeper who now lives in
Menlo Park, recounted abuse she suffered at the hands of her then-boyfriend. She
told how she felt helpless because she was also an illegal immigrant. With the
help of an East Palo Alto attorney, Mary Dutcher, immigration program director
at Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto, Perez obtained temporary status,
and protection from the boyfriend who was convicted of domestic violence.

Perez was granted a work permit late last year.

``It's great,'' she said Wednesday of the filing of the lawsuit. ``It might help
more people like me.''

But without regulations, what Perez and an estimated 5,000 others nationwide
have received is not a U visa. It is a kind of stop-gap measure -- called
``interim relief'' -- that temporarily protects them from deportation, while the
government wrestles with writing the regulations for the law.

Women's advocates across the country have been negotiating with various
government agencies for years to get the Crime Victims Act implemented, but to
no avail. A similar lawsuit was filed in Los Angeles federal court in fall 2005.
Early in 2006, Congress mandated that the law be implemented within 180 days.
The Department of Homeland Security, which oversees Citizenship and Immigration
Services, sought and received from Congress an extension to July 2006.

The first and second lawsuits were filed by the Center for Human Rights and
Constitutional Law, a legal advocacy group based in Los Angeles.

``Without clarity, we haven't been able to do the outreach we'd like to have
done,'' said Susan Bowyer, managing attorney for the International Institute of
the East Bay, a social service agency that helped 82 immigrant crime victims
obtain a temporary status. The agency is one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit.

Bowyer said she's worried that because the U visa has not been formalized, many
crime victims who cooperate with law enforcement are not being reached.
Advocates in the Bay Area and elsewhere have said that many crime victims have
chosen not to apply for temporary status because of the uncertainty about U visa
regulations.

``It's really unconscionable that after waiting for six years that it's still
not promulgated,'' said Sally Kinoshita, a staff attorney at the Immigrant Legal
Resource Center in San Francisco who wrote a manual on applying for temporary
status while the regulations are pending.

Kinoshita and other advocates also said immigrants such as Perez could have been
applying for permanent legal residence by now, instead of spending years in
limbo on their temporary status. Among other things, this would give them the
freedom to travel back to their home countries to see their families.

``The regulations are long overdue,'' said Dutcher. ``Maria could be a resident
by now and travel to see her family abroad.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

LENGTH: 1009 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Well, that was a short honeymoon for Mayor Chuck Reed. Shame on the Mercury News
for taking the mayor's campaign promises so literally. He explained why he is
waiting for a staff report on the proposed soccer stadium before making the
details public and, even the Mercury's fair-haired boy, Les White, agrees with
him. Time to give the mayor some slack.

Rochelle Wall McNamara

San Jose

Since when is the city of Santa Cruz above the law? It is refusing to use its
funds to assist ICE officials in capturing and deporting illegal immigrants,
some of who are known criminals. If they do not want to cooperate with ICE
officials, fine-I hope that city's officials are charged with obstruction of
justice, or aiding and abetting illegal immigration.

Arizona has a Proposition 100 that mandates illegal immigrants who commit
serious crimes and felonies to be held without bail-The Maricopa County Courts
refused to follow this law until state legislators reminded the courts to obey
the law, or face serious consequences.

Illegal immigration costs this country billions of dollars each year, and as
long as there are people who do not want to follow the law, this drain on the
taxpayer will continue. Enforcement of immigration laws, background checks, and
controls in the number of immigrants are needed. Those who break the law should
be punished, not rewarded, for their actions.

Frank Romero

Las Vegas, Nev.

This may not be a popular view, but I think there should be a ``freeze'' on ALL
immigration until the U.S. has had a chance to ``absorb'' and regulate the
people that are already here. Immigration is like ``family planning'' and we're
out of control. You don't let in more until you can afford the ones you've got.
I see the U.S. family struggling to provide proper health, financial, water,
power, jobs, etc. to the people here with no plan in place for the bloated
population that more immigration brings. Amnesty is not the answer. It wasn't in
1986 and it isn't now. The only reason that other countries haven't taken
obvious advantage of our (lack of) immigration control is because they can't
just cross the road and be here.

Instead of helping to secure our borders, Bush is (behind the scenes) pushing
his plan (announced on March 23, 2005) to open BOTH sides of the borders with
his formation of the ``Security and Prosperity Partnership of Mexico and
Canada.'' the merger of the United States, Mexico, and Canada. Be afraid. Be
very afraid.

Samantha Winthrop

San Jose

I read the numerous articles on Don Imus' comments about the woman's basketball
team at Rutgers in your newspaper. These are truly deplorable remarks but for
some reason all of his good works have been forgotten. Anybody remember the
ranch he has in New Mexico where he spends about 5 months a year with his wife
showing kids with cancer how to ride horses and do what kids without cancer can
do? Or when he found out the death benefit for soldiers killed in Iraq and
Afghanistan was 6 thousand dollars and started screaming about it on his show?
It is now 100 thousand dollars and soon to go 250 thousand dollars primarily
because of him. Or raised about 5 million dollars to finish the rehabilitate
center for war vets in San Antonio Texas? And the list goes on.

Yeah, let's get this guy off the TV and Radio before he does any more good
things.

Jim Carlisle

Cupertino

California has traditionally portended national cultural and political trends.
The widespread surge in the illegal immigration population is no exception. As
your editorial noted, many Americans aren't intimate with the nuances of illegal
immigration and determine their viewpoints based on rhetoric and exaggerations.
As a Latino journalist, I have long observed California's struggle with deciding
how to respond to illegal immigration. Congress, and indeed Americans in
general, should consider the empirical experience of the Golden State's citizens
with the problem that is dividing our country along lines largely drawn by
regional, political and religious affiliations. Gauging by the polls, the
majority of Californians want the politicians' response to be realistic and
compassionate. That compromise is the only solution to a dilemma that posturing
and inaction will only exacerbate.

Wayne Trujillo, editorial director, Latino SUAVE Magazine

Denver

Not to advocate the ``doddering old fool'' (Letters, today) but then there are
those who jeer at Imus for his racial slurs while pointing at ``workers hooting
at girls, or dried up old men, all the same.'' That is stereotyping just as much
as Imus has done. Let's not get the original message of Imus' slur get tainted
by the hypocrites who are calling for him to be fired.

Raymond Zhong

Fremont

I support California's proposed Healthy Pets Act-I see the consequences of
companion animal overpopulation firsthand.

Dozens of healthy, friendly animals-even whole litters of puppies and
kittens-are euthanized every week for lack of homes at the shelter where I
volunteer. All breeders share the blame for this tragedy because when someone
buys an animal from a breeder, a shelter animal loses her chance at a home-and
pays with her life.

To not approve the Healthy Pets Act just because some may refuse to spay or
neuter their animals makes about as much sense as having no speed limit because
a few people still drive too fast. Every year, 3 to 4 million homeless animals
are killed in the U.S. we must prevent more from being born. To learn more,
visit www.HelpingAnimals.com.

Lindsay Pollard-Post

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA)

Norfolk, VA

OK, I am guessing that, when I read about ``immigrant's rights groups,'' I am to
interpret that as ``illegal immigrant's rights groups''? Somehow, our complete
failure to secure our borders becomes a path to citizenship for those who
managed to sneak in. I am also seriously concerned that impoverished citizens
cannot get a path out of poverty if we are importing hired help to fill all
blue-collar jobs.

Ron Feldman

Los Gatos

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

IMMIGRANTS' DILEMMA

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 658 words


Bay Area civil rights groups filed a lawsuit Thursday on behalf of a now
7-year-old boy, a U.S. citizen by birth, who was detained for 10 hours by
immigration agents after they arrested the boy's father on an immigration
violation last month.

Lawyers said it's the first time they've documented a U.S. citizen, the child of
an immigrant, detained in the federal government's crackdown on illegal
immigrants called "Operation Return to Sender."

The lawsuit was filed in federal court in San Francisco against Immigration and
Customs Enforcement by the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights, American Civil
Liberties Union of Northern California, and ACLU's Immigrant Rights Project. It
was filed on behalf of Kebin Reyes, 7, and his father, Noe Reyes, both of San
Rafael.

"Taking a 6-year-old boy and putting him in a locked room for 10 hours is
egregious," said Philip Hwang, staff attorney with the Lawyers' Committee in San
Francisco. "The purpose of the lawsuit is to hold government officials
accountable."

No phone calls

Noe Reyes, 37, an immigrant from Guatemala, was arrested at his home March 6 by
agents for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who were conducting a sweep for
illegal immigrants in San Rafael. Dozens of immigrants, sought by the agents on
previous deportation orders and others found to be without legal documents, were
also arrested.

At a news conference at ACLU's office in San Francisco on Thursday morning,
Reyes said that on the morning of his arrest he showed ICE agents his son's
passport and requested they give him a chance to call a relative before being
taken into custody.

His hands handcuffed behind his back, Reyes and his son were transported to the
ICE detention facility in San Francisco.

"I was not allowed to make a phone call," Reyes said. "I made many requests but
I was denied.

"Kebin realized after hours have gone by that he wasn't going home. He was very
sad and upset. I didn't want him to suffer."

Reyes and his lawyers declined to discuss his current immigration status but
said that he has a pending immigration case and has been released from
detention. They also said Reyes does not have a criminal history or previous
arrests.

But according to ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice, an immigration judge ordered
Reyes deported in November 2000 after he was found to be in the United States
without legal status. He was arrested last month based on that deportation order
and was jailed for more than a month. Since his arrest, he has filed a court
request to re-open his case. A hearing is scheduled in June. He is out on a
$5,000 bond.

"I want to know why I wasn't allowed to seek protection for my child," Reyes
said in Spanish.

Relative not available

Kice declined to comment on the lawsuit.

However, she said that in cases where arresting agents encounter children, "our
preference is for a relative to come take custody of minors."

In this situation, said Kice, agents took the child with the father after
learning that a relative was not immediately available.

"Clearly the action they took was in the interest of ensuring the child's
safety," she said. "We weren't going to leave a minor in a home unattended."

Lawyers and advocates said the boy's detention is the latest example of the
fallout from ICE raids that have struck fear in immigrant communities in the Bay
Area and around the country. More than 18,000 immigrants - those who have been
ordered deported previously and others with criminal convictions - have been
arrested under "Operation Return to Sender."

In raids in the past 12 months in Redwood City, San Francisco, Santa Cruz, Marin
and Contra Costa County, children, many of them U.S. citizens by birth, were
left with relatives and neighbors after the arrests of their parents.

In the lawsuit, the legal groups alleged civil rights violations against Reyes
and his son. They are seeking an unspecified amount in damages.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday

Education should determine immigrants' legal status, Mitt Romney says

BYLINE: By Mary Anne Ostrom Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 801 words


On a day when tens of thousands of people marched in support of allowing illegal
immigrants a path to citizenship, GOP presidential hopeful Mitt Romney said in
Silicon Valley Tuesday that education and skills, not just family
connections,should determine who should be granted legal status in the U.S.

"Right now almost 60 percent of people who come here come here on the basis of
family affiliation," Romney said in an interview with the San Jose Mercury News.
"I think we ought to expand that to some other feature such as education and
ability to contribute to our economy."

Romney said he supports eliminating "the provision in our immigration system
that says `If I can get a child in this country then the whole family gets to
join." He also said that people living here illegally should be given no
preference over those waiting outside the country to seek U.S. residency.

The former Massachusetts governor and one-time venture capitalist was in Menlo
Park at a meeting of the Western Association of Venture Capitalists. In an
interview that also touched on America's reputation in the world, global warming
and his reading tastes, Romney said he supports a border fence with Mexico and
an employment verification system, including requiring an ID card for those
immigrants here legally to get a job. While illegal immigrants who have not
committed crimes would be allowed to apply for those cards, they would be
expected to seek legal status, but receive no "favorable treatment."

Immigration is almost certain to be a topic discussed at the GOP candidates'
first debate to be held Thursday at the Ronald Reagan Library in Simi Valley.

Romney was asked to react to rival John McCain's Hoover Institution speech on
Tuesday in which the Arizona Senator said he wanted to revive solidarity among
the world's democratic nations.

In Tuesday's interview, Romney said he backed a partnership of top nations,
including moderate Muslim countries, "to help move the world of Islam toward
modernity" by providing aid aimed at building commerce and improving education
and health care.

Without naming President Bush, he said that what "irritates many people in the
world is the condescending, patronizing attitude of America, that we have all
the answers and everyone should do what we want them to."

Romney also had a private 30-minute meeting with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on
Tuesday afternoon.

Romney, who was born in Michigan and where his father served as governor, told
the Mercury News that while he supports California's efforts to reduce oil
dependency, he does not support putting the onus on U.S. automakers to build
more fuel-efficient cars if it will cost jobs.

Speaking of mandates on carmakers, Romney said `it's a nice contributing feature
that has almost an entirely insignificant impact on global warming. I don't know
if there have been any scientists yet that have calculated what change
California will make alone in the global temperature rise."

Instead of state-by-state regulations, Romney global attempts to control climate
change.

`I want to make sure we don't do something which costs hundreds of billions of
dollars in this country and make us less competitive with China and India," he
said. If carbon-emitting manufacturing moves to other countries, he added,
`we've done nothing for the planet and we've hurt ourselves immeasurably."

Although Romney is moving up slightly in national polls, he trails former New
York Mayor Rudy Giuliani , Sen. John McCain and former Tennessee Sen. Fred
Thompson, the star of `Law and Order" who is being courted by conservatives to
run. Romney has also sought conservative supporters.

"I don't know if people know what his positions are," Romney said of Thompson.
"He's a well-known handsome prosecutor that puts bad people away every week."

Romney, founder of Bain Capital venture firm in Boston, also called for
revisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley law, the corporate accounting legislation passed
in the wake of corporate scandal in 2002. Blaming a drop in initial public
offerings on onerous requirements of the law, Romney said "sometimes the cure is
worse than the disease." He said he does support the main tenet that chief
executive officers and chief financial officers take personal responsibility for
the financial accuracy of their corporate statements, but would like to
streamline the paperwork connected to the law.

Asked about his comments during a Fox News interview Monday that L. Ron
Hubbard's Battlefield Earth is his favorite novel, Romney said Huckleberry Finn
is his favorite fiction and that the book by Hubbard, who founded Scientology,
is his favorite science fiction reading.

`It's a great science-fiction book," Romney said. `He hadn't founded Scientology
at that point."

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday

Romney: Former venture capitalist outlines new approach to immigration

BYLINE: By Mary Anne Ostrom Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 813 words


On a day when tens of thousands of people marched in support of allowing illegal
immigrants a path to citizenship, GOP presidential hopeful Mitt Romney said in
Silicon Valley on Tuesday that education and skills, not just family
connections, should determine who receives legal status in the United States.
"Right now, almost 60 percent of people who come here, come here on the basis of
family affiliation," Romney said in an interview with the San Jose Mercury News.
"I think we ought to expand that to some other feature such as education and
ability to contribute to our economy."

Romney said he supports eliminating "the provision in our immigration system
that says: `If I can get a child in this country, then the whole family gets to
join.'" He also said that people living here illegally should be given no
preference over those waiting outside the country to seek U.S. residency.

The former Massachusetts governor and onetime venture capitalist was in Menlo
Park at a meeting of the Western Association of Venture Capitalists. In an
interview that also touched on America's reputation in the world, global warming
and his reading tastes, Romney said he supports a border fence with Mexico and
an employment verification system, including requiring an ID card for those
immigrants here legally to get a job. While illegal immigrants who have not
committed crimes would be allowed to apply for those cards, they would be
expected to seek legal status, but receive no "favorable treatment."

Immigration is almost certain to be a topic discussed at the Republican
candidates' first debate, to be held Thursday at the Ronald Reagan Presidential
Library in Simi Valley.

Romney was asked to react to rival Sen. John McCain's Hoover Institution speech
Tuesday in which the Arizona senator said he wanted to revive solidarity among
the world's democratic nations.

In Tuesday's interview, Romney said he backed a partnership of top nations,
including moderate Muslim countries, "to help move the world of Islam toward
modernity" by providing aid aimed at building commerce and improving education
and health care.

Without naming President Bush, he said that what "irritates many people in the
world is the condescending, patronizing attitude of America, that we have all
the answers and everyone should do what we want them to."

Romney also had a private 30-minute meeting with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on
Tuesday afternoon.

Romney, who was born in Michigan where his father served as governor, told the
Mercury News that while he supports California's efforts to reduce oil
dependency, he does not support putting the onus on U.S. automakers to build
more fuel-efficient cars if it will cost jobs.

Speaking of mandates on car makers, Romney said, "It's a nice contributing
feature that has almost an entirely insignificant impact on global warming. I
don't know if there have been any scientists yet that have calculated what
change California will make alone in the global temperature rise."

Instead of state-by-state regulations, Romney supported global attempts to
control climate change.

"I want to make sure we don't do something which costs hundreds of billions of
dollars in this country and makes us less competitive with China and India," he
said. If carbon-emitting manufacturing moves to other countries, he added,
"we've done nothing for the planet and we've hurt ourselves immeasurably."

Although Romney is moving up slightly in national polls, he trails former New
York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, McCain and former Tennessee Sen. Fred Thompson, the
star of "Law and Order" who is being courted by conservatives to run. Romney
also has sought conservative supporters.

"I don't know if people know what his positions are," Romney said of Thompson.
"He's a well-known handsome prosecutor that puts bad people away every week."

Romney, founder of Bain Capital venture firm in Boston, also called for
revisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley law, the corporate accounting legislation passed
in the wake of corporate scandal in 2002.

Blaming a drop in initial public offerings on onerous requirements of the law,
Romney said, "Sometimes the cure is worse than the disease." He said he does
support the main tenet that chief executive officers and chief financial
officers take personal responsibility for the financial accuracy of their
corporate statements, but would like to streamline the paperwork connected to
the law.

Asked about his comments during a Fox News interview Monday that L. Ron
Hubbard's "Battlefield Earth" is his favorite novel, Romney said Mark Twain's
"Huckleberry Finn" is his favorite work of fiction and that the book by Hubbard,
who founded the Church of Scientology, is his favorite science-fiction reading.

"It's a great science-fiction book," Romney said. "He hadn't founded Scientology
at that point."

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415)477-3794

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 4, 2007 Friday

Arrogant immigrants hurt cause by making unreasonable demands

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 711 words


Tuesday's immigration marches in several of the country's largest cities were
actually helpful. They showed that - despite the nativist sound bites on the far
right - the answer to our immigration woes is no more likely to come from the
radical left.

Speaking of nativist sound bites, there are commentators such as CNN's Lou Dobbs
who are more part of the problem than part of the solution. Now Dobbs is using
his network's Web site to raise money for the "legal defense fund" of Hazleton,
Pa., which banned landlords from renting to illegal immigrants. Passing the
plate this way only perpetuates the myth that the good people of Hazleton need
defending from a problem they helped create by hiring illegal immigrants to do
their chores. The townspeople need to take responsibility.

Trouble is, the marchers seem no more willing to accept their share of
responsibility either. Most of the comments I heard and read last week from the
participants were arrogant, outrageous and presumptuous, and they reflected
badly on the entire legalization movement.

And I say that as someone who has come around to the view that immigration
reform must include a path to legal status for illegal immigrants. For many of
the marchers, that path should be a carefree stroll in the park. If I had my
way, it would be more like boot camp.

Look, these people made a choice. They broke the rules and came to the United
States illegally. Now they have to pay for it by making restitution and making
an effort to become part of the American fabric.

That's why I like the outline of the immigration reform plan being pounded out
by the White House and GOP senators, as well as the immigration bill proposed by
Reps. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill. And it's why I've been a
fan of the Hutchison-Pence plan, which was proposed last year by Rep. Mike
Pence, R-Ind., and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas. All of these proposals
include a path of legalization, but with lots of conditions. Illegal immigrants
have to pay fines, or learn English, or even return home for a short time. The
message is clear: "You want the right to live in the United States legally?
Fine. Earn it. Nothing valuable comes easy, and the right to live legally in the
greatest country on Earth is of tremendous value."

No dice, said some of the marchers. One man in Los Angeles told television
reporters that he demanded a "general amnesty without conditions just like in
1986." And forget that business about requiring people to leave the country and
reapply to enter legally. No way was he going to do that, he said.

What a jerk. Here he is getting a gift, and he wants it wrapped with a bow.
Heaven forbid, he'd have to lift a finger.

Another man, also in Los Angeles, acknowledged that he was here illegally and
explained his demands this way: "We want legal status so we can have the same
rights as other people do."

There is his mistake. It's likely that the "other people" he is talking about
are either permanent residents or U.S. citizens. If he wants the rights they
have, let him go through the steps on his own to obtain either status. Then he
can have rights galore, but with responsibilities the way "other people do."

Then there is the old standby, those signs with the slogan: "No human being is
illegal."

OK. But human beings do, on occasion, commit acts that are illegal and, when
they do, they have to pay for those mistakes. And step one is admitting they
made them.

Many of the more vocal illegal immigrants don't even want to do that much. Maybe
they're embarrassed for having broken the law, and so they prefer to think about
everything they've done right since they got here: raising good kids, starting
businesses, paying taxes.

Aside from the nativists and the media charlatans, a lot of Americans accept
that illegal immigrants have made a contribution. Why else would more than
three-fourths of respondents to a recent USA Today/Gallup poll say that illegal
immigrants ought to have a path to legal status?

This is close to being a done deal. But to seal it, illegal immigrants and those
who presume to speak for them are going to have to get real and express a
willingness to get right with the law. They need to accommodate America instead
of demanding that America accommodate them.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday

Photography students put faces to illegal immigration

BYLINE: By T.S. Mills-Faraudo MediaNews

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; Education; Los Gatos; News; Local

LENGTH: 687 words


As Pallavi Menon looked through the lens of her camera at the man in Tijuana,
Mexico, who had just been deported, she saw more than just someone who had been
living illegally in the United States.

The 17-year-old Sacred Heart Preparatory School junior saw a man who went to
school in the United States, served in its military, raised a family here and
then was suddenly sent back to his homeland.

Pallavi is one of seven advanced photography students at the Catholic school in
Atherton who participated in a photo documentary project that focused on
immigration.

In March, five of the students traveled to Tijuana, where they spent five days
at Casa del Migrante, a Catholic refuge that provides meals and beds for as many
as 150 migrants and deportees. The students shot photos of the people staying at
the refuge as well as people in the Tijuana community and along the border.

"Immigration is dealt with so generally and it was nice to show how it's really
affecting people," Pallavi said. "I came back with a whole different viewpoint
on life."

The students who were unable to go on the trip shot photos documenting community
events, rallies and daily life in Mexican and Central American immigrant
communities in the Bay Area, including Redwood City and San Rafael.

Eighty of the students' black-and-white photos will be on display through June 8
at the SPUR Projects gallery in Portola Valley.

Sacred Heart typically takes a group of students each year to Casa del Migrante
as part of its service learning program, said Lars Howlett, photography teacher
and project organizer. He said he thought the trip would be a good opportunity
for his advanced photography class to do its group project.

Regarding immigration, Howlett said, "It's an interesting and prevalent subject
in society, especially in the Bay Area."

But, he said, it's just as important to illustrate this issue locally, which is
why he asked students to shoot photos in Bay Area communities as well.

"One of the great things about photography, when you're studying photography, is
you're not just studying the act of taking pictures; you're studying what you're
taking pictures of," Howlett said. "By taking their cameras and going to Mexico
and local communities, they're learning individuals' stories."

To break the ice, Pallavi said, students spent the first day just talking to
people at Casa del Migrante.

All of the students had taken Spanish classes and were able to converse with the
people in Mexico, Howlett said.

Pallavi shot a portrait of one man who had a particularly heart-wrenching story.

He crossed the border when he was 14, went to school in the United States, was
in the Navy, got married and had two daughters who are now attending UCLA on
full scholarships. Now 35, the man, who works in construction, got into a
physical fight with one of his clients because he wasn't paying him for a
project. He ended up going to jail and getting deported. It seems unlikely he
will get back to his family in the States.

"It was heartbreaking," she said. "A lot of these guys said they didn't consider
Mexico their home because they came to the United States when they were so
young."

Sacred Heart senior Marie Hamilton, 18, stayed near home and shot photos of day
laborers waiting for work on Fifth Avenue in Redwood City.

At first, many of them were timid when she asked to take their photos and
interview them. After awhile, Hamilton said, some of them wanted to tell their
stories.

"A lot them feel like they can be taken away at any moment," she said. "A lot of
people have called them illegal aliens for so long and they just want to be
called undocumented workers."

Proceeds from a book the students are working on will go to Casa del Migrante in
Tijuana.

"I hope these photos make a difference and are thought-provoking and provide an
accurate depiction of what's going on," Pallavi said.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

SPUR Projects is at 888 Portola Road, Portola Valley. Gallery hours are 11 a.m.
to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday. Information: (650) 529-2040.

Contact MediaNews reporter T.S. Mills-Faraudo at tmills@ sanmateocountytimes.com
or at (650) 348-4338.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 1, 2007 Friday

Latin America struggles with illegal immigration

BYLINE: By Tyler Bridges Miami Herald

SECTION: WORLD; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 620 words


LA QUIACA, Argentina - The 60-foot-wide river that marks the boundary between
Argentina and Bolivia at this border crossing is as unimpressive as the Rio
Grande that marks part of the U.S.-Mexico border.

But it serves the same purpose - it's an easy way for people from Bolivia, South
America's poorest nation, to slip illegally into better-off Argentina in search
of jobs so they can help support their families back home.

As the U.S. Congress tackles the thorny issue of immigration reform, Latin
American nations are facing their own issues with the nearly 3 million people
estimated to have migrated to neighboring countries within the region - both
legally and illegally.

Some, like Argentina, are welcoming them because of labor shortages. The line of
Bolivians waiting to enter La Quiaca legally these days snakes along the
100-yard bridge that spans the International River, even as others simply slip
across the largely unguarded border.

But others are not. In southern Mexico, for example, border authorities are
aggressively trying to stop the entry of Guatemalans and other undocumented
Central Americans, most of them trying to ultimately get to the United States.

As the ranks of migrants within Latin America steadily increase, the issue of
illegal migration is just beginning to attract the attention of policy-makers
and researchers in the region.

Migrants who stay within Latin America rather than go to the United States stand
to earn less but get to stay closer to home. And, except for Haitians in the
Dominican Republic and migrants to Portuguese-speaking Brazil, they speak the
same language as those in their new home.

Argentina's 2001 census put the number of Bolivians living there at 230,000, but
analysts believe the real number could be as high as 500,000 because of the
large number of undocumented migrants. Many work in housekeeping, others work on
farms or in construction.

"Bolivians have gone into areas of work where Argentines don't compete, like
picking grapes," said Eduardo Gamarra, a Bolivian native who heads the Latin
American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University. "But they
also make up a large part of the construction industry in Buenos Aires and
Co`rdoba."

With a much stronger economy, Argentina has long been a magnet for migrants from
less developed neighbors. Per-capita income in Argentina in 2006 was $15,000,
according to the CIA World Factbook, and only $3,000 in Bolivia.

Alejandro Grimson, a Buenos Aires-based social scientist, said Argentina in the
1990s sought to keep out Bolivians because of the popular view that they fueled
crime and unemployment. But Argentina's Congress in 2003 changed course and
adopted policies to legalize the thousands of undocumented migrants and protect
their rights.

One new law allows Bolivians to legalize their status in Argentina and
eventually even become citizens, and it gives them the same rights to medical
care, education and job security as Argentines, Grimson said.

But Bolivians sometimes still are not welcome in Argentina.

"Argentines think they're superior to us," said Ine`s Tarifa, a Bolivian who is
allowed to cross into La Quiaca every day to sell knickknacks to passersby.
"Some stop and shout, `Pig!' and then continue along their way."

The greatest flow of migrants in Latin America is from Colombia to oil-rich
Venezuela, according to Jorge Marti`nez, an analyst with the Chile-based U.N.
Economic Commission on Latin America and the Caribbean.

Official figures from Venezuela's 2001 census show that 608,691 people born in
Colombia lived then in Venezuela, although Marti`nez believes the current number
is higher because of continuing immigration and because many undocumented
migrants were not counted.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday

Facing long odds, Western growers hope to revive the agriculture-only portion of
the bill

BYLINE: By Michael Doyle McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 585 words


WASHINGTON - Western growers and union activists are scrambling for a fix after
the comprehensive immigration bill on which they had pinned their hopes
collapsed Thursday.

Facing long odds, some Westerners say they might try resurrecting an
agriculture-only portion of the immigration package. The so-called AgJobs
measure would legalize 1.5 million illegal immigrants who have a history of farm
work.

"We're going to push it," vowed Manuel Cunha, the president of the Fresno-based
Nisei Farmers League.

Like the larger immigration measure, the agriculture bill is complicated. As
first introduced by Republican Sen. Larry Craig of Idaho in 2003, the
legislation spanned 103 pages. Like the larger bill, it incites controversy over
claims that it offers amnesty to lawbreakers.

The agriculture bill, though, targets a smaller population than the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants potentially affected by the comprehensive bill.

"I think AgJobs has potential," Democratic California Sen. Dianne Feinstein said
Thursday. "I think we can move this because of the harvest coming up, and
because of the fact that agriculture labor is way down now."

Special work visas

The bill would grant special visas to illegal immigrants who have worked in
agriculture for the past several years and who continue to do so for three or
more years. In time, the immigrants could convert their special visas to
permanent U.S. legal residency and, eventually, citizenship.

The legalization provisions won the support of liberals, the United Farm Workers
and church groups. In turn, groups such as the Nisei Farmers League, the Idaho
Growers and Shippers Association and Florida's Indian River Citrus League signed
on because of promised changes in an existing agricultural guest-worker program.

Last year, senators folded the provisions into the comprehensive immigration
bill. But from the start, supporters including Craig and Feinstein retained the
option of moving their agriculture-only bill separately if the larger bill died.

"We're going to start the discussion about this in the next two weeks," Cunha
said. "We may be putting it onto another type of legislation; we don't think it
can go alone."

As currently introduced, the separate agriculture bill has 29 Senate
co-sponsors.

In particular, lawmakers might try attaching this agriculture-only immigration
package onto an appropriations bill used to fund the federal government. This is
a popular technique, because appropriations bills enjoy momentum on Capitol Hill
and must be passed to keep the government running.

Politically, there are some advantages in trying to move an agriculture-only
immigration bill. There also are some disadvantages.

AgJobs supporters say they can sell their stand-alone bill as a discrete and
manageable change, simpler to handle than the comprehensive bill that failed to
win sufficient Senate support.

"I hope the Senate will work immediately to pass the non-controversial portions
of this bill such as . . . AgJobs," Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., said Thursday.

Fewer supporters

On the other hand, the larger bill's collapse took with it supporters who
otherwise lack strong incentives to vote for an agricultural guest-worker plan.
Some backers of comprehensive immigration restructuring also see benefit in
holding on to the agricultural provision to ensure some rural votes.

An even more fundamental question, after the exhausting melodrama of the past
several months, is whether lawmakers can revive any bill that contains the word
"immigration."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

College door closed for talented undocumented students

BYLINE: By Dulce Martinez

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 607 words


Mayra, a 17-year-old who graduated recently from Downtown College Preparatory in
San Jose with top grades, had hopes of going to a four-year university and
becoming a lawyer. There is only one problem, which she can't fix.

She entered the United States illegally when she was 4 years old after her
parents determined that if they stayed in Mexico they could all starve. As an
undocumented immigrant, she's ineligible for government financial aid.

At her high school, Mayra was in Leadership, a program for students who help
with campus activities. She was a member of the associated student body and
MEChA, a Latino student group. She prepared and distributed sandwiches and water
to day laborers in front of Orchard Supply Hardware while they waited for jobs.

Mayra thought that she was as American as anyone. She never thought that being
an illegal immigrant was going to be a problem until she applied to a
university. Then she found out that she qualified for almost no aid. That
limited her college choices.

"I feel that it's not right that I worked so hard to improve my future and now
I'm not sure what would become of my plans," said Mayra, a tall, brown-haired
and brown-eyed girl from a poor Mexican village.

I know many teens who, like Mayra, had their dreams destroyed when the U.S.
Senate turned down the latest immigration reform bill. They shattered the hopes
not only of illegal immigrant students in San Jose but also, students living all
over the country.

Another deserving undocumented immigrant student who worried about her future is
Perla, a thin "jarocha," or native of the Mexican state of Veracruz.

Perla's parents smuggled her into America when she was 9. Also a 2007 Downtown
College Prep graduate, she has all the qualities universities look for: She
participated in student government, passed Advanced Placement classes and
tutored struggling students. And yet when it came to applying to a university,
she had all doors slammed in her face. "I feel betrayed by the country I call my
home," Perla said.

When the Senate derailed the immigration bill, they punished innocent young
people who had no input in their family's decision to enter this country
illegally. Undocumented immigrant students in schools are not treated any
differently than citizen students. They are always told that they can succeed,
become lawyers, psychologists or teachers. But that's a lie if they are not able
to attend a college because they don't qualify for government financial aid. I
have met many students who have an unclear future waiting for them. Some decide
that there is no point to working so hard and they start falling behind and
start hanging out with gangs.

These undocumented immigrant students never rest because they are afraid that
they might get deported at any second. It is not fair because they have worked
really hard educating themselves, learning our country's history, speaking our
language, contributing to their community, taking the hardest classes. They
don't deserve to be treated so badly.

What happened to the American dream? For these students, the dream became a
nightmare and now they have no choice but to remain here, stuck in the lowest
ditch in our society because they can't go back to a country they no longer
consider their own. All people are created equal, but did Congress think about
that when it put the lives of thousands of undocumented students on hold?

Members of Congress should face the problem with their heads up high instead of
running away and hiding. Is this what America wants, to destroy the hopes of so
many bright and hard working young people who want to become productive
citizens?

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday

Immigration agents take Mercury News along on South Bay raids

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Alameda County; Peninsula; San Jose -
Valley; Communities; Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 610 words


Immigration agents arrested three South Bay residents early Tuesday, part of a
federal sweep for illegal immigrants who have ignored previous deportation
orders.

For the first time, the Mercury News was invited along to watch as the arrests
were made, an effort by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement to show Bay Area
media the inner workings of a growing national crackdown on immigrants who are
deportable because of criminal convictions, and others who have been ordered
deported. The invitation came months after a comprehensive immigration reform
bill was stymied in Congress and weeks after federal authorities announced they
would step up enforcement of current laws by punishing businesses that hire
illegal immigrants.

"People make us out to be the bad guys," said Timothy S. Aitken," ICE deputy
field office director in San Francisco. "We're doing our work in the most
professional and efficient manner possible."

Traveling in unmarked SUVs and cars, Aitken and six armed ICE agents - all
wearing bullet-proof vests and blue nylon jackets emblazoned in yellow letters
with "POLICE-ICE" - descended in quiet neighborhoods in San Jose, Fremont and
Sunnyvale. Agents knocked on the doors of target homes. In all four occasions,
there were brief conversations at the door, then a quick entry in the house
after obtaining permission.

Miguel Valdez Zarco, 46, of Mexico, a registered sex offender who also was
convicted of domestic violence, emerged from his South San Jose apartment and
was handcuffed in a tank top, jersey shorts and rubber sandals.

"I'm paying for the crimes I committed," Zarco said a few hours later, while
being booked and fingerprinted at the ICE office in San Francisco.

Zarco was deported in 2000 and he said, a day later, he crossed back into the
United States.

Since 2003, the number of arrests in "Fugitive Operations" has grown
exponentially, parallel with rise in the number of ICE teams working on rounding
up illegal immigrants.

There were 1,901 arrests nationwide in 2003, when there 17 teams of immigration
agents for the whole country. From October 2006 to July 20 - with 69 teams in
the United States - there were 34,287 arrested, according to ICE records.

In San Francisco for the same period, there were 2,299 arrests. More than half
of immigrants arrested had defied deportation orders. More than 400 were
immigrants who had criminal convictions.

Aitken said the work of "Fugitive Operations" is making a dent, for the first
time this year, in the nationwide number of immigrants who have standing
deportation orders, from 632,000 to 620,000.

In Los Angeles and other locations, ICE has been taking members of the media on
similar "ride-alongs" for a few years.

Critics of the program said thousands of illegal immigrants who have not been
ordered deported are also routinely being caught up in these sweeps, separating
families comprised of mixed immigration status: illegal and legal immigrants in
one household.

"It's sad that we continue to use punitive measures that hurt our families,"
said Patricia Diaz, executive director Services, Immigrant Rights and Education
Network, a San Jose advocacy group. "If we really want to reduce the number of
undocumented immigrants in our country, then we really need to change and reform
our old and antiquated system."

Richard Konda, executive director of Asian Law Alliance, a legal advocacy group,
questioned the timing of the "ride-along."

"It's an coincidence to showcase this operation" at the same time that the
government seems to be stepping up efforts to round up undocumented immigrants,
Konda said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers detain
Miguel Valdez-Zarco (CQ)and Ricardo Perez Calderon (CQ), who were targeted for
deportation Tuesday August 21, 2007 San Jose. Both men had prior felony
convictions and deportation notices. (Maria J. Avila/San Jose Mercury News)
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Deputy Field Office Director
Detention and Removal Operations Timothy Aitken (CQ), and fellow ICE officers
drive from location to location searching for subjects targeted for deportation
Tuesday August 21, 2007 in San Jose. (Maria J. Avila/San Jose Mercury News)
Undocumented immigrant await process for possible deportation at the United
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Office Tuesday August 21, 2007 in San
Francisco. (Maria J. Avila/San Jose Mercury News)
Miguel Valdez-Zarco, of San Jose is processed for deportation at the United
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in San Francisco Tuesday
August 21, 2007. (Maria J. Avila/San Jose Mercury News)
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers read, and discuss
cases before going out into the field in search of people with deportation
notices, in San Francisco Tuesday August 21, 2007. (Maria J. Avila/San Jose
Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday

Agents detain three in South Bay undocumented immigrant sweep

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 998 words


Immigration agents arrested three South Bay residents early Tuesday, part of an
ongoing federal roundup of undocumented immigrants who have ignored previous
deportation orders.

For the first time, the Mercury News was invited along to watch as the arrests
were made, an effort by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to show Bay
Area journalists the inner workings of a growing national crackdown on
immigrants who are deportable because of criminal convictions and against others
who have been ordered deported but who haven't left the country.

The invitation to view the raids - conducted without help from local South Bay
authorities - came months after a comprehensive immigration reform bill was
stymied in Congress and more than a week after federal authorities announced
they would step up enforcement of current laws by punishing businesses that hire
illegal immigrants.

"People make us out to be the bad guys," said Timothy S. Aitken, ICE's deputy
field office director in San Francisco. "We're doing our work in the most
professional and efficient manner possible."

Three cities

Traveling in unmarked sport-utility vehicles and cars, Aitken and six armed ICE
agents - all wearing bulletproof vests and blue nylon jackets emblazoned in
yellow with "POLICE-ICE" - descended on quiet neighborhoods in San Jose, Fremont
and Sunnyvale and knocked on the front doors of four targeted homes. On each
occasion, there were brief conversations at the door, then a quick entry into
the house after obtaining permission.

Miguel Valdez Zarco, 46, a registered sex offender who also had been convicted
of domestic violence, was handcuffed after emerging from his South San Jose
apartment in a tank top, athletic shorts and rubber sandals.

"I'm paying for the crimes I committed," Zarco said a few hours later, while
being booked and fingerprinted at the ICE office in San Francisco.

Zarco was deported to Mexico in 2000 and, he said, a day later, crossed back
into the United States.

Zarco was one of three immigrants arrested without incident by ICE agents. Also
arrested were Ricardo Perez Calderon, 24, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico
who was convicted of date rape, and Ruel Toribio Rivera, 39, an immigrant from
the Philippines who has a green card but was ordered deported after being
convicted - and serving time - for cocaine possession.

The fourth immigrant sought by ICE was not at home.

Since 2003, the number of arrests as part of the "Fugitive Operations" program
has grown exponentially, parallel to a rise in the number of ICE teams working
on rounding up undocumented immigrants.

Nationwide, there were 1,901 arrests in 2003, when just 17 teams of immigration
agents were deployed. But from October 2006 to July 20 - with 69 teams active in
the United States - there were 34,287 arrests, according to ICE records. At
least six new teams, two of them in Northern California, are expected to be in
operation by the end of the year.

In the Bay Area for the same period, there were 2,299 arrests. More than half of
the immigrants arrested had defied deportation orders. More than 400 were
immigrants who had criminal convictions. The rest were undocumented immigrants
who didn't have deportation orders but were caught up in the sweeps nonetheless.

Backlog reduced

This year, for the first time, Aitken said, the crackdown has made a dent in the
nationwide number of immigrants who have standing deportation orders, reducing
it from 632,000 to 620,000.

For the past few years, in Los Angeles and elsewhere, ICE has taken journalists
on similar "ride-alongs." But coordinating it in the Bay Area, because of the
agents' large workload, has been difficult, said ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice.

"People benefit from getting a firsthand look at what we do," Kice said. The
media tours, she said, are an effort to silence whispers that ICE conducts raids
in schools and that it leaves small children unattended after arresting their
parents.

Unlike in Southern California - where some agencies have struck partnerships
with the Department of Homeland Security, the federal agency that includes ICE,
to target criminally convicted immigrants - many South Bay police departments
have largely resisted working with ICE.

In New Jersey, some presidential candidates and prominent politicians have been
pointing to a triple slaying on a Newark, N.J., playground Aug. 4, to argue that
illegal immigrants with criminal histories deserve harsher treatment. Suspects
in the case include two illegal immigrants who could have been detained by
federal authorities, some critics argue, had local police reported them.

But critics of the ICE crackdown said thousands of illegal immigrants who have
not been ordered deported also are routinely caught up in sweeps, separating
families whose members are of mixed immigration status: illegal and legal
immigrants in one household.

Rivera, who works as a salesman at an electro-plating company in Sunnyvale, has
two children who are U.S. citizens. His parents also are U.S. citizens.

Zarco said he has three daughters who are U.S. citizens by birth.

"It's sad that we continue to use punitive measures that hurt our families,"
said Patricia Diaz, executive director of Services, Immigrant Rights and
Education Network, a San Jose advocacy group. "If we really want to reduce the
number of undocumented immigrants in our country, then we really need to change
and reform our old and antiquated system."

Richard Konda, executive director of Asian Law Alliance, a legal advocacy group,
questioned the timing of the Bay Area "ride-along."

"It's a coincidence to showcase this operation" at the same time that the
government seems to be stepping up efforts to round up undocumented immigrants,
Konda said.

"The sad part of this is if Congress had been able to move forward with some
sensible plan to help people gain permanent status," Konda said, "we would not
see these families being separated."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews . com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Deputy Field Office
Director Detention and Removal Operations Timothy Aitken (CQ), and fellow ICE
officers drive from location to location searching for subjects targeted for
deportation Tuesday August 21, 2007 in San Jose. (Maria J. Avila/San Jose
Mercury News)
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers detain Miguel
Valdez-Zarco (CQ)and Ricardo Perez Calderon (CQ), who were targeted for
deportation Tuesday August 21, 2007 San Jose. Both men had prior felony
convictions and deportation notices. (Maria J. Avila/San Jose Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday

`Sanctuary city' not an insult to Americans with good sense

BYLINE: By Ronald Brownstein

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 867 words


Let's say the 7-year-old daughter of illegal immigrants working in a big
American city wakes up this morning with a high fever and a rash.

Is it in that city's interest for the little girl to receive treatment at a
local public clinic or hospital? Or is that community better off if the child's
parents try to treat her at home because they fear a doctor would ask about
their immigration status - and report them to the federal government if they
couldn't prove they are here legally?

Before you answer, recall that in the 1982 Plyler vs. Doe decision, the Supreme
Court ruled that children of illegal immigrants have a constitutional right to
public education. That means that whether or not that child is examined to
determine if her illness is contagious, she soon will be back in a classroom of
other 7-year-olds - many, in all likelihood, American citizens.

In most places, for most people, this would not be a hard call. Leaving aside
any question of compassion toward the girl, the community's public health is
clearly served if she is treated before she infects anyone else.

Likewise, most people would agree that communities are safer if illegal
immigrants who have been the victims of crime, or possess evidence that can help
solve a crime, can talk to police officers without fear of being quizzed about
their status. Or if illegal immigrants enroll their children in school (as the
Supreme Court allowed), rather than keep them at home for fear admissions
officials will investigate the parents' status.

These are the judgments that have prompted Los Angeles, New York and dozens of
other major cities to adopt policies that in varying ways discourage municipal
workers from assessing the immigration status of people using local services and
sharing such information with federal immigration officials.

They also are the judgments that have provoked the sharpest clashes yet between
the two leading GOP presidential contenders, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney and former New York City Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.

Romney charges that these city policies encourage illegal immigration by
offering the undocumented "sanctuary." He proposes to cut off federal funds for
cities that adopt them and calls New York's approach under Giuliani especially
egregious. "New York City was the poster child for sanctuary cities," Romney
insists. On Tuesday, he launched a radio ad condemning these city initiatives
and, by implication, Giuliani.

The disputed New York policy was adopted in 1989 by Mayor Ed Koch, a
conservative Democrat, and later reaffirmed by Giuliani. The policy generally
prohibited city workers from reporting information about immigrants' legal
status to federal officials. But it explicitly required police and other city
workers to "cooperate with federal authorities" in investigating illegal
immigrants suspected of a crime, including fraudulent attempts to obtain welfare
benefits.

In 1996, the Republican Congress outlawed outright city bans on reporting
immigration status to federal officials. Giuliani challenged the law in court
and lost. Under Giuliani and his successor, Michael Bloomberg, New York then
evolved toward a "don't ask, don't tell" policy, in which city officials no
longer are forbidden from sharing information with Washington but are barred
from inquiring about the immigration status of people using city services,
except when it's relevant to assess eligibility. That usually leaves local
officials with no information to share except, again, in criminal cases.

Giuliani defends his decisions but is so determined to appear tough on illegal
immigration that his advisers, incredibly, won't say whether he opposes Romney's
call to punish cities that do what Giuliani did as mayor. Giuliani should find
some backbone because Romney's idea would be counterproductive. His criticism
draws on a legitimate concern: After Sept. 11, 2001, the nation has a greater
incentive to identify everyone inside its borders, either legally or illegally.
But turning city workers into immigration snoops won't advance that goal.

If a mayor announces that he will check people's papers at police stations,
school admission offices and emergency rooms, illegal immigrants are unlikely to
line up in those places to be discovered and deported. They are more likely to
abandon those services - with dangerous consequences for all city residents.

As Koch said, "The effect would be that illegal kids would be out on the streets
attacking other kids or being attacked themselves; illegal aliens would be . . .
contagious and causing disease to spread and . . . by not reporting criminality,
the same criminals would be attacking citizens. It's hard to see where there
would be any advantage in (that)."

Some cities, by condemning federal immigration raids, have carried the "don't
ask, don't tell" impulse to excess. But Romney has overreached, too, with his
threats against "sanctuary cities" such as New York. Romney's aides won't say
what New York should have done differently in its policy toward illegal
immigrants. Maybe that's because the city, like many others, chose the most
practical response available.

RONALD BROWNSTEIN is the Los Angeles Times' national affairs columnist.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday

Official blame game equally popular on either side of U.S.-Mexico border

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 777 words


Americans and Mexicans have more in common than you might imagine, and that's
not necessarily a positive thing. People in both countries respond to illegal
immigration into the United States in ways that are dishonest, insulting and
counterproductive, and they spend too much time blaming each other for
situations they helped create.

Many Americans find it easier to blame Mexico for the problem of illegal
immigration rather than own up to the fact there wouldn't be a problem if
employers on this side of the border weren't gobbling up illegal workers. It's
as if we're desperately pleading with our neighbor, "Stop us before we hire
again."

Meanwhile, many Mexicans find it easier to worry about the welfare of the most
desperate members of their society only after those poor souls have taken up
residence in the United States. It's as if Mexicans are lecturing their
neighbors about how to care for castaways that their own country has no idea how
to care for.

For most of the 20th century, leaders from Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary
Party simply ignored those citizens who went over to el otro lado (the other
side). National pride dictated that those who jilted Mexico to pursue a life in
the United States be treated as gone and forgotten.

In his 2000 campaign for the presidency, Vicente Fox changed that. As the
conservative National Action Party candidate and later as president, he visited
immigrant communities throughout the United States and repeatedly referred to
Mexican expatriates as "heroes" because of their contributions to both
countries.

That was admirable. In light of the more than $20 billion that Mexicans living
in the United States send home yearly, the expatriates deserve some respect. But
Fox also took to meddling in U.S. immigration policy, which didn't sit well with
Americans. And when the U.S. Congress failed to pass immigration reform, some
analysts blamed Fox for putting in his two centavos.

When new Mexican President Felipe Calderón assumed office 10 months ago, he
seemed committed to avoiding the trap that ensnared his predecessor: defining
the entire U.S.-Mexico relationship in terms of the immigration issue. For a
while, Calderón pulled it off. But, while he was holding his tongue, Congress
was once again mishandling immigration reform.

Now, with comprehensive reform on ice, Calderón may have decided that there is
no upside to staying out of the game. The problem is, the first thing he did
after coming off the bench was fumble.

Last week, the Mexican president used his state of the union address to fire
away at the Bush administration for its plans to build border fencing and
"unilateral measures . . . that exacerbate the persecution and the humiliating
treatment of undocumented Mexican workers." Calderón also lamented the
"insensitivity" of the U.S. government toward foreign workers and pledged to
protect the rights of Mexicans no matter where they live. In a sweeping
statement that only fueled the paranoid fantasies of nativists and immigration
restrictionists, Calderón even went so far as to declare that "wherever there is
a Mexican, there is Mexico."

Despite the erroneous claims of CNN's Lou Dobbs that the Mexican president - who
has a 65 percent approval rating - didn't bother to criticize his own country,
Calderón did just that. He recovered his fumble when he scolded Mexico for not
creating enough jobs, not doing enough to improve education, not cracking down
enough on tax cheats and not finding enough fiscal alternatives to the country's
oil reserves. If Mexico made those reforms and others - such as cracking down on
corruption - it might create an environment where more Mexicans would want to
stay rather than travel north and put themselves at the mercy of their American
neighbors.

Bravo for Calderón. That self-help message should be plastered on billboards all
over Mexico. Which makes all the more disappointing a meeting Calderón had with
Elvira Arellano - the 32-year-old single mother who lived in Chicago as an
illegal immigrant before being deported to Mexico and separated from her child.
It has since been reported that her son has rejoined her in Mexico. Nonetheless,
Calderon promised his help in getting Arellano a visa so she could return to the
United States and perhaps serve as a goodwill ambassador.

That was a mistake. Here's what Calderón should have promised: "Elvira, Mexico
is broken. And I promise to fix it - so that, in the future, other people won't
have to go through what you've gone through."

Now, that would have built some good will with Americans.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. ( ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com ) is a San Diego
Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 29, 2007 Saturday

Drunk-driving case underscores gaps in deportation process

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1520 words


For 10 days this spring, Lucio Rodriguez sat in a Santa Clara County jail cell
on a misdemeanor count of driving drunk.

The illegal immigrant told jail officials he wasn't a citizen - a red flag for
immigration agents - but they never met with him to begin the deportation
process, and he was released.

Six months later, on Sept. 9, the 27-year-old was arrested in Los Gatos, on
suspicion of driving drunk, again - but this time it was after he allegedly
slammed into mother Sara Cole outside her vehicle, crushing her legs and nearly
killing her.

The mother of four had been at one of her son's Little League games earlier in
the day and was taking another son's bike out of her sports utility vehicle at a
baseball field when she was hit.

Sparking an outcry among the woman's family, Rodriguez's case has shined a light
on cracks in a complex deportation process that, from arrest to trial to
incarceration, can result in illegal immigrants avoiding what presumably should
be a return trip home.

"We absolutely have a system in this county that's broken," said Bill Cole, Sara
Cole's ex-husband and family spokesman. "We are learning that there are no real
laws in place to make sure people who commit crimes are followed up on."

While most people think that once an undocumented immigrant is captured,
deportation will follow, police, federal agents and immigration experts say
that's not the reality:

Funding woes mean immigration officials focus on those accused of serious
felonies, such as murder and rape, instead of on misdemeanors and non-violent
felonies.

The rules are loose regarding when immigration authorities should be notified
about a suspect's legal status.

And experts note that even when an illegal immigrant does stand before an
immigration judge, a huge backlog of cases means there's no guarantee of swift
deportation, or even deportation at all.

That's because judges sometimes offer what's known as a voluntary departure. In
those cases, immigrants promise to leave and then file paperwork upon returning
to their home countries. But no one is assigned to make sure they actually do
leave.

"Just because someone is going through the criminal justice system, doesn't mean
they come to the attention of federal authorities," said Lynette Parker, who
teaches immigration law at Santa Clara University.

Virginia Kice, spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
admits there are gaps in the process that keep federal agents from coming into
contact with illegal immigrants in jails. (Illegal immigrants are always caught
before they enter state and federal prisons, she added, where they're sentenced
for felony crimes.)

For example, she said, agents may not be able to interview inmates because jail
overcrowding forces shorter sentences, and inmates may be released before an
immigration agent's next visit.

The gaps, however, start with local cops. In many cities, including San Jose,
standing policies limit officers from notifying immigration authorities unless a
suspect is charged with a felony.

Once suspects are booked into jail, they're asked a series of questions -
whether they are U.S. citizens, their place of birth and their alien status. The
answers can alert federal agents whether the inmate is in the country illegally,
but they don't always work.

Take Rodriguez's case, for example. Santa Clara County jail officials ran
through the check-off list.

Kice said answering "foreign born" is a red flag for agents to talk to the
inmate, but Department of Justice immigration court reports show federal agents
never placed a "hold" on Rodriguez. A hold is meant to ensure that the immigrant
in custody, if convicted, will be handed over to federal officials after his or
her sentence is completed.

Because ICE doesn't release staffing information, it's unknown whether
Rodriguez's 10 days in jail this March fell during federal agents' scheduled
jail visits. ICE won't say how often agents visit the jail, or how many agents
are dedicated to checking inmates.

It wasn't until Rodriguez's arrest Sept. 9 - when police say he allegedly hit
Cole, fled the scene and was so drunk he could barely stand when apprehended -
that federal agents placed a hold on him.

Rodriguez, whose attorney couldn't be reached for comment, now faces a long list
of felony charges, including drunken driving causing injury, hit-and-run and
driving with a suspended license (a technical charge because he has never had a
driver's license), said Santa Clara County Deputy District Attorney Cindy
Hendrickson. If he is convicted, he would serve his sentence in state prison,
then be handed over to federal authorities to continue the deportation process.

No one knows the number of illegal immigrants who may fall through the cracks in
the criminal justice system each year, but experts believe it could be high.

Jessica Vaughan, a researcher for the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, D.C., has spent the past year studying the immigration system. She
says it has "gaping holes" that stretch from local law enforcement policies that
prohibit ICE contact for minor crimes to federal staffing numbers that limit
contact with jailed illegal immigrants.

"The most serious problem is not identifying people in state and local jails,"
said Vaughan, whose organization advocates for tougher immigration enforcement.

She criticized police policies, calling them "short-sighted in terms of public
safety" and "communities shouldn't have to shoulder the burden of illegal
immigrants who shouldn't be here anyway but are committing crimes."

Immigrant rights activist Salvador Bustamante argues immigrants shouldn't be
discriminated against by police or targeted because they look differently.
Bustamante, executive director of Strengthening Our Lives, said most
undocumented immigrants are not criminals and shouldn't be treated as such.

San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis imposed a controversial policy three years ago
that prohibits officers from asking crime victims and misdemeanor offenders
about their legal status. Davis has maintained that his officers won't enforce
federal immigration laws because it might discourage crime victims from
cooperating with police or reporting other crimes.

That policy is at the center of a lawsuit filed by Orange County attorney David
Klehm, who argues illegal immigrants who are arrested ought to be deported
rather than "recycled" through the criminal justice system.

A similar policy in Phoenix has also come under fire since the Sept. 18 death of
police officer Nick Erfle, who was shot by Erik Jovani Martinez. Martinez, who
had been forcibly deported but had come back to the United States, was later
killed by police.

"I do think that state and local law enforcement agencies are missing an
opportunity to protect their communities," Vaughan said.

Vaughan also noted there is a federal database, ICE's Law Enforcement Support
Center, that lists every foreign-born person who has ever come in contact with a
federal agency.

The database, which began in 1996, contains more than 100 million people,
including those who've gone through the deportation process or filed documents
to become permanent residents. It has several uses, such as verifying whether
suspects have been deported or whether they are on the path to legal residency.

Law enforcement accessed the database about 800,000 times last year, with
authorities finding 19,500 people, ICE spokesman Mike Gilhooly said.

Gilhooly also says law enforcement can access the National Crime Information
Center, which lists more than 250,000 illegal immigrants who are actively being
sought.

Even when an undocumented immigrant is brought before a Department of Justice
immigration judge, the process isn't always fast; immigration courts started
2005 with a backlog of more than 168,000 cases, according to a 2006 U.S.
Government Accountability Office report.

Depending on the charges faced, usually those deemed minor, the immigrant could
be offered a voluntary departure. Such departures are granted to those with no
previous criminal backgrounds as long as they promise to leave on their own and
take deportation paperwork to the nearest U.S. Consulate in their home country
to complete.

But Parker, the Santa Clara University law professor, said no one holds their
hands to make sure they leave and ICE officials say there is no data to show the
number of people who complete the deportation paperwork.

During the past few years, ICE has stepped up its efforts to pursue criminal
immigrants, with the number of deportations increasing by nearly 26 percent over
a five-year period. About 89,250 immigrants were formally deported from the
country last year after facing sentences for a wide range of crimes, ICE
statistics show, up from 70,892 deportations in 2001.

Cole, meanwhile, remains in critical condition. It remains to be seen if she'll
lose her left leg, which was mangled in the accident.

Her family is hopeful something will change to close the gaps in the deportation
process.

"Things like this shouldn't happen to families," Bill Cole said.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Immigrants tipping congressional scales

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 1206 words


Illegal immigration is channeling political clout to California and other border
states from the Northeast and Midwest, according to a new report that predicts
that California's undocumented population will account for two of its 53 seats
in Congress following the 2010 census.

Congressional seats have been migrating south and west for decades, as a result
of the Sunbelt's rapid population growth. But the new report by a University of
Connecticut demographer is an early take on how the nation's growing population
of illegal immigrants would amplify that trend when seats in the House of
Representatives are next divided up. It could foreshadow a partisan political
fight over the results of the 2010 census.

While illegal immigrants can't vote, the report says their growing numbers are
affecting the nation's political balance because they are counted in the
once-a-decade census. That population tally determines how seats in the House of
Representatives are split among the states and is also used to distribute more
than $180 billion in federal aid each year.

The Connecticut report predicts that Arizona, Texas and Florida will all hold
additional seats in Congress after the next census, in part because of their
illegal immigrant populations. California and New Jersey would keep their
current amount of seats in the House under the current system. Illinois,
Michigan, Missouri, Montana and Ohio will each have one fewer seat than they
would otherwise have because they have relatively few undocumented immigrants.
New York, which would lose two seats under the current system, would lose only
one if illegal immigrants were excluded.

With the nation's population of unauthorized immigrants growing by about 500,000
a year, the report says illegal immigration is concentrating the power of voters
in states such as California, Texas and Arizona, which have more seats in
Congress per legal resident than many states where the number of illegal
immigrants is much smaller.

"It's a balance of power," said Orlando Rodriguez, the demographer with the
Connecticut State Data Center who wrote the report. "If you look at it, if the
undocumented population is included, then you get a real shift in seats from the
Northeast to the South and the Southwest, and it's a disproportionate shift
because the people who are included in the count, not all of them vote."

The dilution of the principle that every voter has an equal voice in the
nation's political life is one ramification of the immigration issue, say
Rodriguez and immigration experts.

"That does raise pronounced fairness and democracy questions," said Steven
Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington,
D.C., which favors reductions in immigration. "Politics in this way is a
zero-sum game, and you can argue that legal immigrants should be represented,
but it's tougher to say that illegal immigrants should be represented. Most
people in the country, I think, would say that is unfair."

Bill reintroduced

One Michigan congresswoman reintroduced legislation this year - a similar
proposal several years ago went nowhere - that would change the apportionment of
Congress to count only citizens. The 14th Amendment of the Constitution mandates
that Congress be apportioned "counting the whole number of persons in each
State, excluding Indians not taxed."

"Michigan is being outpaced by states that are growing because of heavy illegal
immigration, and these states are being rewarded with more representation in
Congress at our expense," Rep. Candice Miller, R-Michigan, said in introducing
her bill.

California would appear to have the most to lose if the apportionment of seats
in the House were changed so it was based only on citizens. According to
Rodriguez's projections, California - which has one quarter of the nation's
estimated 11.6 million undocumented immigrants - would be the only state to lose
two seats if that population was not counted.

The nation's population of unauthorized immigrants has grown by 37 percent since
the last census, according to the U.S. Office of Immigration Statistics.
California has about 2.8 million unauthorized immigrants, about 1.2 million more
than Texas, the state with the second-highest total.

Illegal immigration is only one part of what many experts predict will be a
bruising partisan fight over the results of the next census, as Republicans and
Democrats jockey to use the census for their political advantage, through
apportionment and redistricting of seats in Congress and the state legislatures.

The voters may choose their representatives on Election Day, but to a degree,
"the politicians choose the voters," said Tony Quinn, co-editor of the
California Target Book, a non-partisan analysis of the state's congressional and
legislative elections, who predicts the battle over the 2010 census "is going to
be, to put it mildly, one helluva fight."

The U.S. Census Bureau is mandated to count everyone living within the borders
of the United States. Experts question whether it would be feasible for the
census to determine the immigration or citizenship status of more than 300
million people.

Statistical adjustment

But one key issue after the 2000 census that is likely to be debated again after
2010 is whether the count should be adjusted to reflect groups the census tends
to miscount more frequently, including immigrants.

That question was expected to trigger a huge dust-up after the 2000 census, but
the fight was muted after the net error in the 2000 count turned out to be less
than in 1990. Because the census is more likely to miss categories of people who
tend to live in Democratic strongholds - racial minorities, renters and
immigrants - Democrats tend to advocate statistical adjustment.

The census tends to over-count people more likely to be Republican - whites and
affluent people, for example - meaning the GOP tends to oppose adjustment for
legislative redistricting or congressional apportionment. Because the census
count is closely tied to housing units, people who own more than one home are
more likely to be counted more than once, experts say.

"You can assume there will be a big brouhaha over congressional reapportionment,
as well as state redistricting, in 2011," said Bill Cavala, a longtime
Democratic redistricting expert in the state Legislature.

Quinn, who says counting illegal immigrants benefits Democrats because it
increases population totals in Democratic strongholds such as Los Angeles, said
any attempt to change that law would trigger a pitched battle.

"Anytime you want to change something with election law, the first question
everybody asks is, who is benefited?" he said.

But Rodriguez, the Connecticut demographer, said illegal immigration actually
may strengthen the GOP at the national level.

Because there are fewer legal residents per House seat in Texas, Arizona and
Florida, illegal immigrants boost voter clout in those Republican-leaning
states.

"It's incredibly ironic," he said. "I'm not taking a political position here,
but you are in a sense disproportionately shifting control of the House to the
Republican side, and giving them more weight than the Democratic side."

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2007



CORRECTION:   A headline accompanying a front-page story Tuesday on the effect
of illegal immigration on the number of members of the House of Representatives
from each state mis-characterized the intent of a bill sponsored by U.S. Rep.
Candice Miller, R-Mich. The bill would seek to change the apportionment of
Congress to count only citizens.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 216 words


LOS ANGELES

Protesters call

for apology from Japan

Gearing up for a historic world conference in Los Angeles on the sexual
enslavement of women and girls by the Japanese military during World War II,
human rights activists from around the world, including former sex slaves,
demanded Wednesday that Japan issue an official apology and make reparations.

During an hourlong protest in front of the Japanese Consulate, protesters also
said Japan must come to terms with its past by revising Japanese textbooks to
accurately reflect the history of Japan's wartime atrocities.

The global conference on Japanese military sexual slavery begins today and
continues through Saturday at the University of California-Los Angeles.

Illegal immigrants

detained, authorities say

Federal authorities rounded up more than 1,300 illegal immigrants in Southern
California during the past two weeks, officials said Wednesday.

The raids targeted illegal immigrants who had criminal records, defied final
deportation orders or re-entered the United States illegally, according to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Most of the immigrants were found at their homes, workplaces or jails throughout
Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura, Riverside and San Bernardino counties.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 7, 2007 Sunday

Crackdown on employers isn't deterring border crossers

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 1008 words


Ramon Morales timed it, and when U.S. Border Patrol agents weren't around, he
ran.

He hurdled over rocks and sagebrush into the United States on Sept. 2 - about
three weeks after he learned of a Bush administration plan to tackle illegal
immigration by focusing on Social Security fraud.

Work would be hard to come by, but the president's plan to penalize employers
who hire illegal immigrants wasn't enough to scare off the 35-year-old married
father, who said the federal plan actually prompted his trip across the border.

The reason? He believes the plan - stalled by a lawsuit claiming a violation of
workers' rights - will force Congress to reconsider immigration reform and open
a pathway to citizenship for anyone already in the country.

He's not the only one who has sought opportunity despite the announcement of the
plan in August.

Activists and illegal immigrants say the plan, which has been well-documented in
countries such as Guatemala and Mexico, hasn't scared anyone.

"It's not enough to force people away," said Maria Marroquin, executive director
of the Day Worker Center of Mountain View, adding that illegal immigrants are
willing to face almost anything to improve their lives.

"I couldn't be afraid," said Morales, of the Mexican state of Oaxaca, where he
earned $5 a day in the fields and now earns about $50 a day from odd jobs around
the South Bay. "There's too much at stake to lose."

Katie Quan, associate chair of the University of California-Berkeley Center for
Labor Research and Education, said she was not surprised that the new policy
does not appear to be stopping people from crossing the border. In the past, the
government has sent threatening "no match" letters to employers with workers
whose Social Security numbers don't match their names, Quan said - with little
effect on the number of people who cross the border illegally.

"I think you really have to look at a variety of factors," including jobs that
pull people to the United States and political or economic factors that push
people out of their home countries, Quan said.

The Department of Homeland Security and Department of Commerce's plan was
intended to push illegal immigrants out of the country by going after employers
who keep them on their payrolls.

The plan, unveiled Aug. 10, focuses on the Social Security Administration's "no
match" letters sent out each year to businesses that have employees whose Social
Security numbers don't match their names.

It's estimated that at least half - and as many as 80 percent - of the roughly
12 million illegal immigrants living in this country have used false Social
Security numbers to secure jobs.

Letters were ignored

Employers have overwhelmingly ignored the letters in the past. The plan lacked
enforcement, something the latest plan aims to correct by imposing $2,200 fines
on employers who do not fire workers with problem Social Security numbers within
90 days of being notified of the no-match.

The enforcement was supposed to go into effect Sept. 14, with Social Security
officials sending no-match letters to 140,000 employers across the country,
including 35,000 in California.

But the letters won't go out till mid-October, when a judge is expected to rule
on a lawsuit filed by the AFL-CIO and other unions, the American Civil Liberties
Union and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, who contend people could be wrongfully
fired.

Juan Vasquez is another newcomer from Mexico who is unafraid that he will get
caught. There are ways to skirt the rules, he said, including hopping from job
to job before no-match letters are sent.

"There are always jobs out there and people willing to hire us who know that we
are not in the country legally," said Vasquez, 29, who is married and has a
newborn. "We are here to work . . . and for nothing else."

The handyman from Durango argues that even if illegal immigrants are fired, U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials likely wouldn't go looking for
them individually if they haven't committed serious crimes.

Privacy rules

Privacy laws also prohibit the Social Security Administration from sharing any
information about employees' no-matches with immigration enforcement officials.

Immigrants like Eswin Cotuc, who sneaked into the United States from Guatemala
in August, say they also could work as day laborers and get paid in cash.

"We didn't come here to steal anything. We came here to better ourselves and to
get ahead," said Cotuc, 25, a married father of two who also works odd jobs.
'I'm here to make money and help my kids become something - doctors, teachers,
professionals."

Even so, advocates of stricter immigration laws say some employers, which have
ignored the laws in the past, are finally starting to come around.

There will always be "people trying to play the system, but employers are
beginning to get the message," said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, which advocates for tougher borders.

He points to Colorado, which imposed tough regulations on employers and fines of
up to $5,000 for failing to assure that the workers they hire are in the United
States legally.

Experts have seen a drop in the immigrant workforce in Colorado, where a new law
also bars illegal immigrants from state services not guaranteed by the federal
government (schooling and emergency medical care are guaranteed).

Veronica Carrizales, a labor specialist at the UC-Berkeley labor research
center, questions whether enforcement could result in some employers using
termination as a way to scare employees.

"What we could see is an increase of intimidation and harassment of workers,"
said Carrizales, adding that immigrants - both illegal and legal - could become
more hesitant to speak out.

But illegal immigrants remain optimistic, willing to take risks as they await
laws to change.

"In my country, luck only happens to the rich - the rest of us have go to
searching for it," Morales said.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

Mercury News Staff Writer Mike Swift contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday

Federal judge puts brakes on illegal immigration crackdown

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 835 words


Dealing a major blow to the Bush administration's crackdown on illegal
immigration, a federal judge Wednesday put on hold new rules that would require
businesses to fire employees whose names don't match their Social Security
numbers.

U.S. District Court Judge Charles Breyer, warning that the push could hurt
businesses and documented workers, issued a preliminary injunction to stop any
penalties until he can hand down a final ruling on whether they are legal,
likely in several months.

The effort, announced this summer, was the focus of a renewed push by President
Bush to combat illegal immigration in the wake of Congress' failure to pass a
comprehensive immigration reform policy. If the government mounts any appeals,
the case could carry on through the 2008 presidential campaign and into the next
administration, leaving the ultimate fate of the plan murky.

Breyer, in his 22-page ruling, said the plan "would result in irreparable harm
to innocent worker and employers." He said it would place a financial burden on
employers and lead to legal workers being fired because of errors.

Immigrant and employee rights advocates - pushing for a pathway to citizenship
for the United States' estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants - hailed
Breyer's ruling a triumph in their quest.

"Workers scored a significant victory against the Bush administration," said Ana
Avendano, an attorney with the AFL-CIO, one of several human rights, labor and
business groups that sued in U.S. District Court in San Francisco to block the
plan.

In a statement issued shortly after the ruling, the Department of Homeland
Security, the agency tasked with enforcing the penalties, said it was
"disappointed" and that the Department of Justice is reviewing all options,
including an appeal.

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
group calling for tougher border security, says the government should do just
that.

"The judge seems to be overstepping his authority," said Mehlman, citing the
1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, which made it unlawful for employers to
hire undocumented immigrants.

Wednesday's decision presents yet another hurdle for the White House plan, which
administration officials have conceded could be difficult to enforce because of
communication gaps.

Among the challenges, activists and illegal immigrants say news of the plan,
which has been well-documented in countries such as Guatemala and Mexico, hasn't
kept people from entering the United States illegally. Also, in many cases,
illegal workers could still hop from job to job without being caught.

The crackdown relies on letters that the Social Security Administration sends
annually to employers who have several employees whose Social Security numbers
don't match their names, either because of fraud or human error.

The so-called "no match" letters were largely ignored by employers until the
Department of Homeland Security announced this summer it would add another
letter informing employers they had 90 days to fire workers whose IDs couldn't
be verified or face punishment, including fines and prosecution.

The Social Security Administration planned to begin mailing 140,000 no-match
letters - affecting more than 8 million employees - to business across the
country in mid-September.

But the lawsuit - filed Aug. 30 - led Breyer to bar the enforcement letters from
being sent.

Breyer wrote the plan would place a financial burden on employers by requiring
them to develop a system to check mismatches and could result in the firing of
people legally authorized to work in the country.

"There can be no doubt that the effects of the rule's implementation will be
severe," wrote Breyer, noting that it could have take longer than 90 days for
some people to resolve errors between their Social Security numbers and names.

The Social Security Administration did not have an official statement, and is
still considering whether to send the no match letters, without the enforcement
letters, as it has done for several decades, said spokesman Lowell Kepke.

Business leaders nationwide also were pleased with the injunction, saying, among
other things, that it will buy them time as the nation pursues the next phase of
immigration reform.

The state's more than $32 billion agricultural industry, which relies on
immigrants for the majority of the 450,000 employees it needs each harvest,
would have been among the hardest hit.

Experts estimate that as many as 70 percent of California farmworkers use false
paperwork - known in the fields as "papeles chuecos" - to receive their weekly
checks.

The California Farm Bureau - representing 92,000 farmers - is now looking at
supporting several possibilities, including immigration policies that would
allow field workers to continue working as well as guest-worker programs.

"This gives us breathing room to look for other options," said Jack King, the
farm bureau's national public policy director.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday

Overseas workers face higher taxes

BYLINE: By Mark Schwanhausser

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 556 words


You might forgive those Silicon Valley employees who work abroad if they scoff
at the title of the ``Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act'' passed in
May. Because lawmakers fundamentally rewrote the tax rules for overseas workers,
employees or their companies could face four- or five-digit tax increases this
year.

``This wasn't a tax cut, for sure,'' said Lorraine Cohen, a national tax
director in Deloitte & Touche's office in San Francisco. ``This was a revenue
raiser.''

It's hard to generalize who will suffer most because tax rates and housing costs
vary so much from country to country -- or even from city to city. But those
likely to feel the impact most are U.S citizens, naturalized citizens and
workers with resident cards living in places with low income taxes and high
housing costs such as Hong Kong, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Dubai and Russia.

The new rules will have less impact in nations with higher taxes such as
Belgium, Germany, Australia and Japan. Many workers can shrug off the tax
increases because their companies will pick up the tab for anything that exceeds
what they'd owe if they lived in the United States.

Overseas workers always have challenging tax returns because they generally are
liable for taxes in both the United States and the foreign country where they
work. To avoid double taxation, Uncle Sam permits workers to exclude $82,400 of
foreign income and write off up to $11,536 of housing costs in 2006. There's
also a tax credit that can come into play.

But lawmakers made two major changes when they overhauled the rules in May:

In the past, slicing off the excluded income would drop workers into a lower tax
bracket. Now their tax rate will be set before the excluded income is
subtracted.

For example, say a worker earned $110,000. Under the old rules, the tax rate
would have been based only on the $27,600 that wasn't exempt from tax. Under the
new rules, the tax will be based on the bracket for a $110,000 paycheck.

The new law significantly alters the formula for calculating how much housing
expense workers can shelter from U.S. tax. For example, a worker with $110,000
of income and $40,000 in housing costs could see an additional $13,600 exposed
to tax, according to KPMG.

The Internal Revenue Service eased the pain for some workers in October when it
released a list of high-cost countries and cities that would be allotted higher
housing exclusions, but that has left taxpayers to puzzle over geographical
issues that can't be solved even with global positioning devices.

Could a worker who lives on the outskirts of London claim the higher exclusion
for the city, or the lower one for England? And though more than 20 places in
Germany are listed, China was left out entirely. The rules also could work
against workers with larger families or executives with an affluent standard of
living, experts say.

The extra wiggle room on housing costs triggered a sigh of relief in October.
But Carol-Ann Simon, who heads BDO Seidman's national expatriate services arm,
warns taxpayers not to get their hopes up. Any savings on housing frequently
will be wiped out because their unsheltered income will be taxed at a higher
bracket.

``The numbers don't lie,'' Simon said. ``It's arcane, it's hard to understand,
it's hard to fathom. To me, it's the bigger change.''

-- Mark Schwanhausser

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday

Activists decry union organizer's killing in Mexico

BYLINE: By David Ovalle McClatchy Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: WORLD; News

LENGTH: 430 words


MONTERREY, Mexico - Santiago Cruz moved to this northern Mexico city to help
organize Mexican farmworkers bound for the United States under a legal
guest-worker program. His killers spared him no agony.

They bound his hands and feet with strips of T-shirt, strangled him using a
beach towel adorned with a cartoon U.S. dollar bill and smashed his head through
a wooden banister.

The slaying last month remains unsolved, alarming human rights activists on both
sides of the border. Police won't talk about their investigation, but Cruz's
friends say they're certain he was killed because of his efforts to stop
corruption in a little-known program that provides seasonal workers legally to
U.S. farms.

Cruz worked for the Ohio-based Farm Labor Organizing Committee, an affiliate of
the AFL-CIO. The committee represents thousands of Mexicans who travel to the
United States each year with H-2A visas, which the United States grants to
workers recruited abroad.

Two weeks before his death, Cruz had begun an education campaign in nearby
villages aimed at stopping rogue recruiters from extorting illegal fees from
farmworkers headed north.

"We were shaking up big forces," said Ca`stulo Benavides, the union's Monterrey
director.

Cruz was found slain April 9 in his office. His possessions were undisturbed and
now are packed into a lime-green suitcase with no immediate destination.

Union supporters have criticized authorities in the state of Nuevo Leo`n for not
solving the crime yet. The Washington-based Inter-American Commission on Human
Rights has urged the state government to find the killers and protect union
members.

The union has renamed its office - in a nondescript strip mall near the U.S.
consulate - the Santiago Rafael Cruz Justice Center and has started a fund for
his family.

The AFL-CIO has condemned the slaying, as has the city council in Toledo, Ohio,
where the farm labor committee is headquartered.

U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur, D-Ohio, is trying to organize a congressional delegation
to visit Monterrey and investigate Cruz's death and alleged corruption among
recruiters of temporary agricultural workers.

The committee represents some 6,000 seasonal farmworkers, many of whom travel
each year under the temporary H-2A agricultural visa to the tobacco, cucumber
and sweet potato fields of North Carolina.

The workers are recruited by companies that, under contract from farms in the
United States, screen them in Mexico, process their U.S. visas and transport
them north. Some 50,000 workers are projected to travel to the United States
this year under the H-2A program.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday

How many H-1B workers? Counts vary

BYLINE: By Chris O'Brien Mercury News

SECTION: SCIENCE AND TECH; High-Tech; Business; News; Special Reports;
Technology; Politics

LENGTH: 1205 words


Turns out there's one thing folks on all sides of the often heated debate over
H-1B visas can agree:

There's a startling lack of publicly available data about the program, which
makes it almost impossible to know which companies are getting the controversial
visas and why. And much of the data that does exist is disputed by one side or
another.

A list of the top 200 employers of H-1B visa holders for 2006 compiled by the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security and obtained by the Mercury News
illustrates the problem. Of the dozen or so Silicon Valley companies on the
list, Oracle ranked highest at No. 9. Cisco Systems was 13 and Intel was 14.

According to the list, Oracle was issued 1,022 H-1B visas in calendar year 2006,
a figure that includes renewals of previously issued visas. But Robert Hoffman,
an Oracle spokesman, said his company could only confirm that it made 170 new
H-1B hires in the federal government's fiscal year 2007, which runs from October
to September.

However, according to data from the U.S. Department of Labor, Oracle applied for
737 visas in 2006, up from 264 in 2005 but down from 1,627 in 2004. Hoffman,
however, called those numbers "highly inaccurate."

"There's no good data," said Lynn Shotwell, executive director of the American
Council on International Personnel, an industry trade group. "We know demand
well exceeds supply, but we don't really know what the demand is."

Dispersed oversight

The confusion over the numbers highlights the incredibly complex nature of the
H-1B program, which involves three federal agencies. And the lack of real,
fundamental data about who is using these controversial visas and for which jobs
has frustrated folks on all sides of the debate.

"I think that's pretty indicative of the oversight of this program," said Sonia
Ramirez, legislative representative for the AFL-CIO. "There are a number of
agencies with responsibility. And in some cases, they don't know how many visas
they've issued. And in the end, that weakens the enforcement of the program and
protection for workers."

High-tech companies have been lobbying for years to raise the cap on the 65,000
H-1B visas issued every year. Critics who oppose an expansion argue that the
visas take high-paying jobs from Americans and give them to lower-paid
immigrants.

The comprehensive immigration bill that was recently defeated in Congress would
have almost doubled the number of H-1B visas to 115,000 a year, exempting 40,000
people with higher degrees from any restrictions. It also would have accelerated
the employer-based green-card system for workers already here, a provision that
tech companies favor because it allows them to move current, temporary workers
to permanent status and free up H-1B visas for other workers.

How steep is the demand for those additional visas? Here is what is known:

The federal government awarded 124,096 H-1B visas in the fiscal year ending
October 2005, the most recent annual totals available. That includes renewed
visas, which don't count against the annual cap. It doesn't include the 20,312
applications the government turned down.

Companies filed 119,193 applications for the 65,000 visas that will be awarded
for the fiscal year starting in October 2007.

There were so many applications that, after two days in April, the government
cut them off. It continued to take applications for the 20,000 visa exemptions
for people with master's degrees until April 30.

Reaching the cap so quickly only further antagonized tech companies.

"I think one of the frustrations we have about the government running out of
H-1Bs in April is that you have an entire graduation class that's not even
eligible," Hoffman said.

Despite the demand, it's hard to know who gets the visas and how they are used.

Complicated process

In part, that's because of the byzantine process for applying and granting the
visas. A company that wants H-1B visas files an application with the U.S.
Department of Labor. The Labor Department screens the applications, then passes
them to the Department of Homeland Security, which includes the office of U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. Applications approved by the immigration
service are then forwarded to the U.S. Department of State, which actually
issues the visas.

So who wants these visas? And how badly? To answer that question, the Mercury
News first examined a series of databases on the Labor Department's Web site.

Looking at one company, Cisco Systems of San Jose, the data showed the number of
H-1B applications filed by Cisco rose from 481 in 2004 to 1,027 in 2005 to 2,283
in 2006. When asked about those numbers, company spokeswoman Robyn Jenkins would
neither confirm or deny them.

"There is currently a shortage of technically skilled workers in the U.S., and
as Cisco hiring overall has increased in recent years, so has our use of H-1Bs
to fill certain highly specialized positions," Jenkins wrote in an e-mail.

But Shotwell, the tech-industry lobbyist, said such tallies are misleading
because companies often file multiple applications for a single person or large
blanket applications for a number of positions they might not ultimately need
because they want as many as possible before the cap is reached.

Still, the applications do show the types of jobs companies hope to fill. At the
low end, Cisco wanted a visa for a customer support engineer position that would
pay at least $46,900 annually. At the high end, Cisco wanted a visa for a
director of manufacturing that would pay from $166,566 to $212,300.

Visa lottery

To get a clearer picture of the H-1B numbers, a Labor Department spokesman
recommended contacting the Homeland Security Department, where the immigration
service conducts a lottery to award the visas.

Initially, a Homeland Security spokeswoman said the department doesn't release
figures on the number of visas awarded to individual companies.

"I don't believe we compile that information," said spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.
"And it may be that we don't have any operational use for that."

A short time later, Rummery found a list of the top 20 employers receiving H-1B
visas in 2006. The list is dominated by India-based outsourcing companies, such
as Wipro and Infosys, which at No. 1 and No. 2 respectively received 3,143 and
3,125 new visas. The only Silicon Valley company on the list was Intel, ranked
No. 13 with 613. Microsoft was fifth with 1,297.

But another list circulating on Capitol Hill told a somewhat different story.
That list was also from the Homeland Security Department and included the number
of new visas as well as the number of renewal visas.

According to that list, Oracle outranked Intel, receiving 1,022 visas in 2006.
Intel received 828, as did Cisco; Yahoo received 347; and Hewlett-Packard
received 333.

HP spokeswoman Pamela Bonney couldn't offer any guidance on the accuracy of the
numbers.

"HP does not track visa applications filed on an annual basis," she wrote in an
e-mail. "I can confirm that the employees that have H-1B visas are less than 2
percent of HP's total U.S. employee population."

Last stop: the State Department. A spokeswoman said the department doesn't
disclose detailed numbers regarding H-1B visas.

Contact Chris O'Brien at cobrien@mercurynews.com or (415) 298-0207.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Immigrants and their supporters march Saturday July 14, 2007 from City
Hall plaza through downtown San Jose protesting the excessive delays and
backlogs for green card applications. About 300 marchers - most of whom are in
the U.S. with H1B visas and are working in the technology industry - carried
placards decrying what they called the mistreatment of legal immigrants. They
stressed that they have played by the rules, pay taxes and contribute to the
American economy and feel they are denied justice in return. (Pauline
Lubens/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

Fairness Doctrine isn't coming back

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: LETTERS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 979 words


Fairness Doctrine

isn't coming back

It looks like Victor Davis Hanson was having a Rosana Rosanadana moment when he
wrote his latest column (Opinion, July 19) . . . only he failed to end it by
saying, "Never Mind!" The truth concerning the "Fairness Doctrine" is totally at
odds with Mr. Hanson's statements. Other than Sen. Dianne Feinstein, no one in
government has been talking about bringing back the Fairness Doctrine. The real
problem concerning the broadcast media, especially radio, is that 90 percent of
the stations are owned by five corporations who aren't particularly interested
in being fair and balanced.

What Mr. Hanson was putting out has been a right-wing talking point on the
righty talk shows for a considerable amount of time, ginned up to create
controversy. And as to his assertion that ABC, CBS and NBC are liberal bastions
- there is no proof that this assertion is actually the case.

Lars Bourne
San Jose

H-1B visas driven

by desire, not need

It is often stated that this nation is in dire need of highly skilled foreign
workers. How would we know that? A recent article in the Mercury News (Page 1A,
July 15) interviewed a number of people regarding H-1B visas. Among them were
representatives for Cisco and Hewlett-Packard. Interestingly, none of them were
able to state the number of visas needed. State and federal representatives were
just as ill-informed.

Filing multiple visa applications for the same position or applying for an
over-estimated number of visas suggests that the companies first get as many
H-1B visa employees as they can and then fill the rest with the locals. Perhaps
this is not the way the program should be used.

Zoltan Lukman
Santa Clara

Strategy to avert

terror is misguided

After reading the article "Grim view of terror threat" (Page 1A, July 18), it is
obvious that the United States is playing a losing game. The terrorists only
need to succeed once; the United States has to intercept and block every single
attempt. Sound impossible? Obviously, it is! An attack on the United States
could come from any place in the world. No nation can cope with that.

For our safety, it is time to re-evaluate our policies toward the rest of the
world and to implement a better plan. Any workable policy has to defuse the
hatred that terrorists and other nations feel toward the United States. Starting
unjustified wars and blatantly antagonizing other nations is a failed plan.

Wayne E. Amacher
Sunnyvale

Know-nothings rant

about `flex-fuel'

The "Another View" column written by a couple of political shills from
Sacramento about "flex-fuel" vehicles (Opinion, July 18) had to be one of the
most mindless and illogical pieces I have ever read. The message is that the
political hacks in Sacramento actually believe they know what's best for the
rest of us.

They are going to force another piece of idiotic legislation down our collective
throat, without one bit of hard science and real economic analysis to support
their argument. That will cost us taxpayers millions upon millions of dollars.
This reminds me of the MTBE fraud perpetrated on Californians not long ago by
these very same people.

Timothy M. Kral
Los Altos

Only fools believe

sheiks support U.S.

It is hardly surprising that enthusiasts of the war in Iraq are waxing euphoric
over the good news from Al-Anbar province (Charles Krauthammer column, Opinion,
July 15; Letters, July 19). It certainly is good news, but the war's promoters
have shown an incredible capacity for denial of bad news and elation over good
news. Let's not kid ourselves: These sheiks have not suddenly become supporters
of the American mission in Iraq or of the central government in Baghdad. What
happened in Al-Anbar is that Al-Qaida in Iraq essentially self-destructed.

The sheiks originally allied themselves with Al-Qaida to expel the American
occupiers, but they became so tired of Al-Qaida's heavy-handed tactics and
attempts to impose Islamic rule that they opportunistically switched sides. By
all means, let's take advantage of this turn of events, but to think that it
represents a turning point, or that we now have the answer to success in Iraq,
is just more wishful thinking.

James G. Christenson
Los Altos

Soldier's mom puts

in plug for news

How sad that your letter writer doesn't consider the death of a U.S. soldier
newsworthy ("Soldier's death not front-page news," Letters, July 19). By all
accounts, Spec. Roberto Causor supported the mission, so I'm not sure how the
writer arrived at the conclusion that featuring the death of a soldier was
editorializing.

The death of a soldier is not just a loss for his or her family; the loss
extends to their community and our whole country as we lose important pieces of
our future. Perhaps such insensitive commentary comes from "Iraq fatigue" after
five years of war. I appreciate reading stories about these young men and women
who stand tall to serve their country, something that many do not consider these
days.

The Bush administration does not allow photographs of flag-covered caskets as
the soldiers make their final journeys home, as if not seeing them means these
deaths are not happening. I am glad that the Mercury News has not embraced a
similar policy.

Karen Meredith, proud mom of Lt. Ken Ballard
Mountain View

Death of soldier

is front-page news

The Bush administration disallows photos of our soldiers' coffins arriving at
Dover Air Force Base and now a letter writer thinks covering a soldier's death
in Iraq on the front page is "editorializing." His death is not an opinion, it
is a fact. Deaths are often front-page news and this soldier was from San Jose.

Perhaps the real reason someone wants the item buried elsewhere in the paper is
so that he doesn't have to face any facts relating to the lies that got us into
this ill-conceived strategic blunder that is Iraq, and the command negligence
that keeps us there.

Michelle Laccabue
Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday

Republicans urge action on tech issues

BYLINE: By Frank Davies Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: SCIENCE AND TECH; High-Tech; Business; National; News; Technology;
Politics

LENGTH: 551 words


WASHINGTON - Worried that Democrats in Congress were getting too much credit for
leadership on tech-industry issues, GOP House leaders Thursday pressed Speaker
Nancy Pelosi to move quickly on several tech priorities, including allowing more
skilled workers from overseas.

In a letter to Pelosi, D-San Francisco, Minority Leader Rep. John Boehner,
R-Ohio, and at least 30 other Republicans also called for quick action on making
the Internet tax moratorium permanent. The moratorium, which bars state and
local governments from taxing e-commerce and Internet access, expires Nov. 1.

In addition, Republicans want an expanded research-and-development tax credit,
building on an increase enacted last year, and a renewed effort to encourage the
use of electronic medical records.

"These are dire needs, and we want to keep America competitive," said Rep. Bob
Goodlatte, R-Va., who has worked on tech issues for years. "The speaker has
talked about some of these issues, but not enough has been done."

Democrats responded swiftly, saying they welcomed GOP support. "They were in
power 12 years, and we've passed important legislation in 30 weeks," said Rep.
Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, citing patent reform and more funding for science and
math education and for basic research.

The significance of the GOP letter is that it indicates some Republican support
for more H-1B visas and green cards for foreign workers - a major legislative
goal of tech companies that has been tied up in the highly charged debate over
immigration.

Goodlatte said more House members are realizing that an unrealistic limit on
visas for skilled workers is another reason companies set up offices overseas.
Allowing more skilled foreign workers into the United States helps keep jobs, he
said.

"We must enact legislation to allow U.S. companies to attract and retain
high-skilled workers to contribute and excel in the U.S. economy without
unnecessary delays and waiting periods," the GOP leaders wrote in the letter.

Lofgren, who hopes to push for a visa increase soon, said the GOP letter reveals
some new supporters.

"Some names on there have never been allies on immigration reform," Lofgren
said. "I'm glad to be surprised."

One tech lobbyist, Ralph Hellmann, said "competition is a good thing" when both
parties vie for credit in backing parts of the tech agenda.

"Having Boehner and Pelosi spar over who is committed most to the tech community
is a healthy atmosphere to be in," Hellmann said. "We just hope the competition
leads to action on many of these items."

GOP leaders in the House now see a good issue in pushing for making the Internet
tax moratorium permanent. Democrats in the House Judiciary Committee held off on
a bill to do that, and several senators - including Republican Lamar Alexander
of Tennessee - are blocking it in the Senate.

Some senators and House members want to extend the moratorium for several years
but not make it permanent, so they can review it in the future.

Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, is sponsor of a bill to make the moratorium
permanent. Three GOP House leaders who signed the letter joined as co-sponsors
on her bill in the past week - Boehner, Minority Whip Roy Blunt of Missouri and
Chief Deputy Whip Eric Cantor of Virginia.

Frank Davies can be reached at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday

Selling `post-partisanship' on the Hill;
GOVERNOR FINDS COMMON GROUND WITH DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: Lisa Friedman, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 613 words


California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger courted the state's congressional
Democrats on Tuesday, vowing to work with them to pump up funding for the Golden
State.

Touting his health care plan and push for immigration reform in meetings with
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Sens. Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein,
Schwarzenegger continued his call for bipartisanship and said he wants to be an
``inspiration'' to Washington.

Schwarzenegger and the California delegation discussed a range of issues for the
110th Congress, including increasing money to reimburse the costs of jailing
illegal immigrants and relief for those harmed by this winter's citrus freeze.
With Democrats now in charge of the House and Senate and Schwarzenegger touting
his newfound ``post-partisanship,'' the once-estranged lawmakers and governor
said they found vast areas of middle ground.

Boxer said she and Schwarzenegger discussed global warming -- she said he has an
``open invitation'' to testify before her environment and public works committee
-- as well as ways to extend the time states have for complying with new federal
driver's license mandates.

Feintsein spent more than 45 minutes talking with Schwarzenegger and pledged to
help him expand the federal children's health insurance program -- a key element
of his plan for universal health care in California -- and to work together on
shoring up weak levees and protecting the environment.

``We want to be helpful to him and he wants to be helpful to us,'' Feinstein
said.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who leads the California Democratic delegation and
helped organize a bipartisan meeting with Schwarzenegger, said she was
encouraged.

``I thought there was a lot more give and take,'' than previous meetings which,
she said, were essentially photo-ops empty of substance.

Schwarzenegger said he'd be delivering his message of bipartisan cooperation
around the country.

``The idea is just to put a spotlight on those issues at a national level and
remind people what needs to be done,'' he told reporters. Voters considering
their choice for president should take his lead and choose ``someone that is
inclusive, someone that can make a deal,'' said the Republican governor after
his meeting with Pelosi, D-San Francisco.

Pelosi said the two ``had a very positive discussion about how we can work
together in a bipartisan way on issues that affect people of our country, but
specifically on some issues where California is leading the way.'' She mentioned
health care and energy independence.

Republicans, meanwhile, continued to express skepticism -- particularly about
Schwarzenegger's desire to see an immigration plan that would allow at least
some illegal immigrants to obtain citizenship.

``It has the same flaw that the president's (plan) has,'' said Rep. Darrell
Issa, R-Vista.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach, said he thinks the governor is
``trying to walk a different path than the position he was elected on'' and said
he opposes Schwarzenegger's plan.

Rep. David Dreier, R-Glendora, sidestepped entirely a question of endorsing
Schwarzenegger's immigration platform, claiming that he was unaware the governor
ever discussed advocating citizenship for illegal immigrants.

But when asked if House Republicans might still be in power if they moved in a
more moderate direction like Schwarzenegger, Dreier replied, ``Yeah, I guess
so!''

Rohrabacher, however, still panned Schwarzenegger's bipartisan message.

``There's a purpose of a two-party system. It's to give people a choice. For us
to meld together and not offer distinct policy choices is contrary to the
American system,'' he said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

Talk radio balances out liberal media

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: OPINION; Letters

LENGTH: 774 words


Talk radio balances

out liberal media

While I admit that most of talk radio has a definite right-wing slant (Page 1F,
June 27), I feel that it is the only balance for the rest of the media, which
are definitely left-leaning. Most of the newspapers, including the Mercury News,
Chronicle, L.A. Times, N.Y. Times, etc., are liberal as well as the news
magazines such as Time, Newsweek and People. All the TV News channels, both
cable and local, with the exception of Fox News, lean to the left. People
criticize Fox news for being right-slanted, but in its defense I will say that
by and large they do usually present commentators from both sides. It is the
only channel on which you can even see/hear the view from the right. In view of
this, I think it totally unfair to try to silence or restrict talk radio.

Nancy Deussen
Palo Alto

Enforce existing

immigration laws

Our government knows which workers are using phony Social Security numbers, and
which employers are hiring them, so why can't the government enforce our current
laws against hiring illegal aliens? Amnesty to those who have broken our
immigration laws would just make things worse. Senators should vote no on
S.1639.

Charlie Larson
Mountain View

Republicans now

favor `cut and run'

So, Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., and some of his fellow Republicans are now
deciding (about time) that the mission in Iraq is a failure (Page 3A, June 27)
and headed in the wrong direction. "Downsize and redeploy," they say. Hmm. The
Democrats proposed the same thing and were labeled the "cut and run Democrats."

Republicans have a long history of keeping their heads in the sand, and slow
reactions to disaster from AIDS during the Reagan administration to global
warming and Katrina in the Bush administration. The "cut and run Republicans"
need to cut and run from their failed policies quickly to avoid further loss of
life.

Bob Williamson
Saratoga

Patent legislation

an important step

Obviously, Daniel E. Leckrone (Opinion, June 27) doesn't actually read many
patents (they are really dull). I've read hundreds over the last five years.
Quality problems are not minor, they are endemic: The system is riddled with
garbage that is laughable when you're not being sued over it. The patent system
is administered by overworked, under-supported patent agents, and the result is
presumed valid in subsequent litigation refereed by judges who have no technical
expertise or experience.

Thorough and obligatory peer review, which has served science for centuries, is
the only way to obtain a patent system that actually rewards invention; the new
peer-to-patent system is the first halting step in this direction.

Daniel M. Dobkin
Sunnyvale

CIA went against

American tenets

For several years, I taught an adult class at Newark High School on U.S.
government. One of the principles that I believed and taught was that political
assassination was not a government policy (Page 1A, June 27). What ever happened
to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness?" What happened to rule of law?

I thought that the FBI prosecuted the "mob." Now records indicate that our
government was in bed with them. I taught that we did not attack foreign
countries. And, if attacked we would defend ourselves. My world has been turned
upside down.

Reid May
Saratoga

Another San Jose

architectural error

Is it just me? Doesn't anyone else wince at yet another San Jose architectural
blunder? The "City Hall Mistake" is apparently a lesson lost, because now it's
going to be repeated with the "Airport Mistake."

The new Terminal B design looks a lot like the fuselage remains of a
belly-landed 747. It's bound to be overly expensive, and I wouldn't be surprised
if it discouraged air travel. Or is it just me?

Richard Greif
Cupertino

Cheney trampling

on Constitution

Vice President Dick Cheney has shown no regard for the Constitution upon which
our country was founded. He has disrespected our democracy by expanding the
powers of his office well beyond the legal limitations set forth by our
forefathers. He has abused his office for his own personal gain at the expense
of American lives and liberty. He should be removed from office.

Dean Lucas
Campbell

Sexist approach

to candidates

Your article "To love, honor and campaign" (Page 1A, June 25) was sexist to the
extreme. You seem to have chosen six candidates as front-runners, but you
pictured each of five spouses in a 1.25 by 1.50-inch format. For the sixth
spouse you used a 7.50 by 5-inch huge picture and included not only the spouse
but also the candidate in that picture. Was that just because this one candidate
is a different sex than the other candidates? Such sexism.

Foster Kinney
Redwood City

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 530 words


LOS ANGELES

Immigration melee due

to command breakdown

Police Chief William Bratton said Tuesday that a breakdown in command at an
immigration rally led officers to use force, swing batons and fire more than a
hundred "non-lethal" projectiles to disperse a crowd of demonstrators and
journalists.

"It was quite apparent ... it all broke down," Bratton said after the city's
civilian police commission was given a minute-by-minute account of the May 1
melee.

Reporters, demonstrators and others were pushed to the ground, struck with
batons and targeted with almost 150 "non-lethal" rounds - including foam, sponge
and bean bags - as officers in riot-gear swept through MacArthur Park to break
up an immigration rally. More than 40 people were injured during the clashes,
including nine members of the media and seven officers.

Tuesday's presentation served as an update to the department's still-unfinished
report evaluating operations and planning, one of several investigations under
way.

The department also is conducting an internal affairs probe into complaints
against officers and their use of force. An independent review has been
undertaken by the investigative arm of the police commission, a five-member
board of mayoral appointees that sets policy for the police department.

Clinton gets thumbs

up from Villaraigosa

Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton has won the endorsement of Los Angeles Mayor
Antonio Villaraigosa, a rising star in national Democratic politics and one of
the nation's top Latino elected officials.

Villaraigosa was set to announce his endorsement today, joining Clinton at a
campaign rally at the University of California-Los Angeles, two Democrats
familiar with the planned endorsement told the Associated Press.

Villaraigosa's endorsement of Clinton is not unexpected; he lavished praise on
the New York senator at a campaign event in Los Angeles in March, calling her
campaign "fighting for a brighter and cleaner future for all our children."

SAN BERNARDINO

Story in killing

of veteran doubted

A former sheriff's deputy who shot and wounded an Iraq war veteran after a
high-speed chase initially said he thought the man was trying to attack him,
then later changed his story, a prosecutor said in opening arguments Tuesday.

Deputy District Attorney Lewis Cope said Ivory Webb, a deputy at the time, told
Chino police that Senior Airman Elio Carrion "`started to come at me.'"

Later, Webb told authorities he believed Carrion was reaching for a gun in his
jacket pocket. Carrion was unarmed.

Cope played an amateur video filmed by a bystander that captured Webb shooting
Carrion three times Jan. 29, 2006.

"It will be up to you to decide whether Mr. Webb should have shot him," Cope
told jurors. "He was not under threat, he knew he was not under threat, and he
shouldn't have fired."

Webb, 46, has pleaded not guilty to charges of attempted voluntary manslaughter
and assault with a firearm.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 2007



CORRECTION: A headline in the state report about a former sheriff's deputy who
shot and wounded an Iraq war veteran in Chino erroneously reported that the
veteran was killed in the attack.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 373 words

SANTA ANA

Lockyer to probe letter to Latinos

The state attorney general's office is investigating a letter received by some
Orange County Latinos that says it is a crime for immigrants to vote and warns
them that they could be jailed or deported if they go to the polls next month.

The letter, written in Spanish, also says the state has developed a computer
system to make it easy to track down the names of Latino voters.

``You are advised that if your residence in this country is illegal or you are
an immigrant, voting in a federal election is a crime that could result in jail
time,'' the letter says.

Local officials said the note was degrading and intimidating, and asked state
and federal officials to step in.

Nathan Barankin, state Attorney General Bill Lockyer's communications director,
said the letter was ``something we are investigating aggressively right now.''

Several of the recipients appeared to be naturalized citizens, said John
Trasvina, interim president and general counsel for the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Education Fund. Naturalized citizens can vote.

SAN FRANCISCO

Medical-pay hike OK'd for prisons

A federal judge agreed Tuesday with a court-appointed receiver overseeing
medical care at California's 33 prisons and increased salaries for most medical
staffers, from nurses to doctors.

The poor quality of the health care provided inmates has been the most pressing
problem facing the state's prison system. U.S. District Judge Thelton Henderson
appointed a health care expert in February to recommend changes to a system he
said was ``broken beyond repair'' and in which an average of one inmate a week
dies through neglect or malpractice.

The changes that Henderson approved Tuesday as part of a prison-reform lawsuit
were recommended by Robert Sillen, the court-appointed expert who previously
headed the public hospital system in Santa Clara County. Increasing wages 5
percent to 64 percent would help retain qualified personnel, Sillen said.

``Years of neglect by the state have produced an underpaid work force, which not
surprisingly has resulted in high vacancy rates, inadequate care and over
reliance on high-priced temporary agencies,'' Sillen said after Henderson's
ruling.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday

GOP linked to letter sent to Hispanic families

LENGTH: 315 words


Investigators with the state attorney general's office have linked a Republican
campaign to letters sent to Hispanic families last week warning that some
immigrants could be jailed or deported for voting next month, an agency
spokesman said Wednesday.

Nathan Barankin, a spokesman for Attorney General Bill Lockyer, declined to
identify the campaign, citing the ongoing investigation.

``We believe it's linked to a particular Republican campaign,'' Barankin said in
a telephone interview from Sacramento. ``We have identified where we believe the
mailing list was obtained.''

The letters sparked numerous complaints and prompted state and federal
investigations this week. Barankin said investigators have been questioning
``lots of people'' in Orange County the last several days.

Scott Baugh, chairman of the Orange County Republican Party, said he didn't know
whether any members had been questioned.

``I condemn the letter. It's an obnoxious, grotesque piece of work,'' Baugh
said. ``Regardless of who did it -- Republican or Democrat -- if it's a crime,
then whoever did it should be prosecuted.''

The leader of an anti-illegal immigration group said she was interviewed by
investigators from the attorney general's office Wednesday.

Barbara Coe, leader of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform, said she
told investigators her group had not authorized the letter and she didn't know
who sent it.

The note's letterhead resembles that of the group's, and contains the signature
Sergio Ramirez.

``The letterhead was altered and I've never head of any Sergio Ramirez,'' said
Coe during a phone interview.

Coe said she has received a handful of death threats since last week, when the
letter began arriving at an unknown number of Orange County homes. Her group was
investigated by the FBI in the late 1990s because members held signs near polls
stating only citizens can vote.

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 20, 2006 Friday

GOP hopeful urged to exit race over letters targeting Latinos

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words


An Orange County Republican's congressional campaign went into meltdown Thursday
after he said a staff member was responsible for sending thousands of letters to
new voters with Latino surnames telling them -- wrongly -- that it is illegal
for them to vote if they are immigrants.

The Orange County Republican Party immediately called for Tan Nguyen, the GOP
candidate for California's 47th district, to withdraw from the race after it
concluded he approved the mailing. Nguyen, who has scheduled a press conference
today to respond, said Thursday that a staff member had sent the letters without
his knowledge and has since been fired.

Nguyen, himself an immigrant from Vietnam, has focused his campaign on keeping
illegal immigrants out of the country, a deeply felt issue in Orange County.

``The mailer was flawed and ill-conceived,'' Nguyen said. ``I will do whatever I
can in the weeks before the election to encourage all citizens in this district
to exercise the most important of their democratic privileges.''

As many as 14,000 letters were sent in the district, now represented by
Democratic Rep. Loretta Sanchez of Garden Grove. The letterhead identified them
as coming from the anti-illegal immigration group California Coalition for
Immigration Reform.

The group immediately denied responsibility, noting that the letterhead did not
resemble its official letterhead and appeared to be forgery.

Written in Spanish, the letters advise recently registered voters that it is a
crime for those in the country illegally or immigrants to vote in a federal
election and that offense could result in jail time or deportation. They also
say the federal government has a new computer system to verify voter names, and
that anti-immigration organizations can access the records.

Adult immigrants who are naturalized citizens can, in fact, vote and none of the
other assertions made in the letter are true.

Orange County Republican Chairman Scott Baugh told the Associated Press that his
group asked Nguyen to withdraw after concluding he was aware of and approved the
letter -- charges Nguyen denied.

``I learned information that allows me to draw the conclusion that not only was
Mr. Nguyen's campaign involved in this, but that Mr. Nguyen was personally
involved in expediting the mailer,'' Baugh said.

``I did not do this. I did not approve of any letter,'' Nguyen said.

Baugh, who called the letter ``obnoxious and reprehensible,'' said his group's
executive committee voted unanimously to ask Nguyen to drop out.

California Attorney General Bill Lockyer launched an investigation into
violations of two state laws against intimidation to suppress voting. On a local
radio program, Lockyer confirmed that his office was focused on a Republican
congressional candidate. An aide to the attorney general said the investigation
is ongoing and declined to comment further.

Sanchez said she has called for a federal probe into violations of the Voting
Rights Act. ``We would like to find who did this and have them prosecuted,'' she
said.

``If it is in fact this guy, the most disgusting and saddest thing about it is
that it comes from another immigrant,'' said Sanchez, who was born in the United
States to Mexican parents, whose 1996 election signaled Orange County's
increasing diversification. ``These communities have spent years trying to get
naturalized immigrants to vote.''

Local Republicans have largely ignored the race, though Sanchez's seat is not
normally considered safely Democratic. The district narrowly went for Bush in
the 2004 election.

Nguyen, 32, was unknown to local Republicans until he beat out a favored
candidate to face Sanchez. Less than two years ago, Nguyen ran as a Democrat
trying to unseat Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach.

``When I interviewed him to determine why he was becoming a Republican, I was
less than convinced that he switched parties because he doesn't believe in the
values of Democrats,'' Baugh said. ``He wanted the Republican Party to carry him
across the finish line, and I told him that's not how it works.''

Nguyen has spent $427,000 of his own money in the race against Sanchez by
September, according to campaign filings.

His campaign materials describe immigration as the focus of his campaign. He
praises the Minutemen Project and opposes President Bush's guest-worker program.

Nguyen immigrated to the United States at age 8, one of thousands of Vietnamese
to flee their homeland in boats to escape the communist government. He worked as
a stockbroker before entering politics.

Orange County is known for heated immigration politics. One-third of its
residents are Hispanic, according to 2004 Census data, and the area is home to
large populations of Vietnamese and Middle Eastern immigrants. It also is the
birthplace of several anti-immigration movements.

``Certainly this is a very polarized area,'' Sanchez said. ``When you have
people like the creator of the Minutemen living there, and Gloria Tuchman, who
worked on the anti-bilingual law . . . one would say that it's a pretty volatile
area.''

This is not the county's first dispute over alleged intimidation of Latino
voters. In 1988, Republican Assembly candidate Curt Pringle posted uniformed
``security guards'' at 20 predominantly Latino voting places in Orange County.

Republicans said the guards were stationed to prevent non-citizens from casting
ballots. The FBI investigated the incident. No criminal charges were filed, but
Pringle and nine other defendants paid $400,000 to settle a civil rights lawsuit
alleging voter intimidation.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday

Border Patrol picks up the pace

BYLINE: Nicholas Riccardi, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1660 words


On a hot afternoon in May, buses carrying people with dreams of a better life
rumbled across the desert to a converted Bible college on the edge of this oil
town of 12,000.

As each bus rolled toward the front gate, a welcome committee came into view: a
dozen men and women in sunglasses, broad-brimmed hats and crisp green uniforms,
standing ramrod straight.

A former U.S. Marine on one bus recalled his boot camp days, and groaned: ``Oh,
no. Not again.''

By day's end, the 50 new trainees of Class 620 had settled in at the U.S. Border
Patrol Academy, where over the next five months they would be chiseled into
America's first line of defense on the country's southern border.

Among the recruits were Joseph Sorrento, whose dream of entering law enforcement
brought him from Buffalo, N.Y.; Philip Marquez, who had been boxing curtains at
a warehouse in Brownsville, Texas; and Katy Foscue, who had given up a trucking
job and moved with her husband, Matt, to a town near Tucson.

Significant moment

The three trainees were entering the academy at a crucial time in the Border
Patrol's history.

Washington has been consumed with debate over illegal immigration. Hundreds of
thousands of migrants have marched to demand amnesty. President Bush and
congressional hard-liners who vowed to block his guest-worker program have
agreed on only one thing: The nation needs more agents along the border with
Mexico.

That has placed intense pressure on the Border Patrol Academy, which graduated
1,122 trainees last year but will enroll 3,600 this year.

Traditionally, Border Patrol recruits have come mostly from the Southwest and
had law enforcement or military backgrounds. Now, the patrol is forced to entice
diverse candidates from other parts of the country.

Earlier this year, a crop of trainees entered the academy every few weeks. Now,
classes start weekly and the academy is expanding. Modular classrooms and
dormitories are mushrooming across its 2,500-acre campus.

The students enter an institution that is unlike any other law enforcement
school -- part police academy, part law school, part language institute.

They learn to shoot, drive off-road and speak Spanish. Of all trainees, 17
percent do not complete the training. Some fail, but many who leave are worn
down by the rigors and isolation of the academy.

In Class 620, 34 of 50 members will make it.

Tough training

The tone was set the moment the trainees stepped off the bus May 18. The
instructors ordered them to move double-time to get their identification badges
from the security building.

After the trainees filled out paperwork, they were given seven minutes to unload
their belongings. The students dashed into the motel-like buildings where they
would live for the next 20 weeks. Their shared rooms contained a bunk bed and
one desk.

Former trucker Katy Foscue was not fazed. She had expected the rough treatment.
It was the next order that was most intimidating: Empty your biggest bag. You
will need it to carry your textbooks.

After seven years of seeing America while driving their own truck, Katy and Matt
Foscue bought a house outside Tucson, where illegal immigration is as much a
part of the scenery as saguaro cactuses.

Migrants routinely traveled through the edge of the Foscues' property. The
couple called the Border Patrol once, when they saw an abandoned white van. But
they were never alarmed about their own safety.

``They're here to work,'' Katy, 35, said of illegal immigrants. ``They don't
want to get caught or do something stupid.''

It was not the migrants that got the couple into the patrol. It was a haircut.

One day last year, Matt's barber began chatting about Border Patrol agents and
how they never complain about their jobs.

Challenging work

Matt was intrigued, and the barber introduced some agents to the Foscues. The
more they heard, the more they liked: Every day is a different challenge. The
benefits and pay are good -- after four years, agents can make about $65,000
with overtime. There is a pension after 20 years.

The Foscues filled out applications. They began running and doing push-ups to
condition the ``trucker bodies'' they had acquired. Although they had applied at
the same time, Matt, 37, was scheduled to start in Class 624, one month later
than his wife.

In Buffalo, Sorrento was tending bar and trying to figure out what to do after
college. He longed for a career in law enforcement, and was about to take a job
in the New York state prison system when a friend at the pub suggested the
Border Patrol.

Sorrento went home, logged on to the Border Patrol's Web site and e-mailed his
application. He started running four times a week. Sorrento, 24, had only one
worry -- leaving Buffalo, the city where he had spent his entire life.

``It's tough leaving your friends and family,'' he said.

In Brownsville, Marquez was bouncing from job to job. A member of the Army
Reserve, Marquez was pulled out of college in 2002 and sent to Afghanistan.

When he returned home, he got married. But steady work eluded him. Because the
Border Patrol had long been the only reliable employer in the area, Marquez
applied and was accepted.

Marquez's parents are legal Mexican immigrants, and he has many relatives across
the border, but he sees no contradiction in stopping people from crossing
illegally.

``They're coming over here to get jobs, and I'm doing the same thing,'' said
Marquez, 26. ``I'm just doing a job.''

After one of his first days at the academy, Marquez had to admit that he was out
of shape.

Instructors demanded that the class do 200 abdominal crunches, and after a few
dozen, Marquez was unable to move. He lagged at the back of the class during
runs at the high desert's 3,300-foot elevation. Instructors who followed the
runners in a golf cart yelled at him to climb aboard.

``No, sir!'' Marquez shouted, and dashed to catch up with the rest of the class.

Sorrento was in the lead. He had conditioned himself so well that he was the top
runner in his group.

Only a fraction of each day at the academy is spent in physical training or on
the shooting range. Most of the time, the recruits are inside, studying law
enforcement procedures, immigration law and radio codes they will use in the
field.

They also spend two hours a day in Spanish class. About half of all trainees are
native speakers; for the rest, Spanish is usually the most difficult course.

In 18 weeks, Sorrento went from speaking no Spanish to being able to ask
questions and give orders. But he did not feel comfortable using the language.
He tripped up during a role-playing session designed to mimic incidents that
take place on the border.

Sorrento had to interview a Spanish-speaker of questionable citizenship (played
by an actor) and forward the information to a dispatcher -- something he would
do daily once he started his job.

Sorrento got the character's name wrong, and misheard the dispatcher that the
suspect had three convictions for alien immigrant smuggling.

Sorrento did hear the suspect's birthplace: Tecate in Baja California. He
hesitated, flustered, then said: ``Esta arrestado.''

Instructor Gabriel Espino halted the action. ``Why are you arresting him?''

Exasperated, Sorrento asked: ``Is there a Baja California in the United
States?''

``No,'' Espino said in disbelief. ``Where are you from?''

Sorrento threw up his hands, and the stress of interrogating in a foreign
language vanished from his face.

``Buffalo,'' he said, amid much laughter.

In private, academy instructors marveled at Katy Foscue's conditioning.

She was far smaller than most recruits -- 5-foot-1 and weighing barely more than
100 pounds. But she handled the most demanding workouts.

Foscue was one of only seven women in Class 620. Four of them dropped out, and
one flunked her physical fitness exam.

``You definitely know you're going into a man's work,'' she said.

In one exercise, Foscue held a padded baton while three classmates -- also
wearing protective suits -- came at her from all directions. She hit the first
in the knee, but the two others were tougher.

One danced out of Foscue's reach as the other grabbed her and wrestled her to
the ground. Foscue's classmates, lining the walls of the workout room, shouted
advice:

``Escalate force!''

``Stack!''

``Weapon, use your weapon!''

Hemmed in by the two men, Foscue wriggled, jabbing with her elbows and knees.
Her training kicked in. She reached for her holstered plastic gun.

The lesson for Foscue was clear. In certain situations she would have to use
weapons -- baton, pepper spray or her gun -- sooner.

``They say it's not unusual to encounter groups of 50 by yourself,'' she said.
``That's intimidating.''

After months in tiny dorm rooms, eating the same food in the mess hall and
spending up to 10 hours a day training in the classroom or in the blazing sun,
it was over.

On Sept. 26, graduation day, Class 620 gathered outside the academy auditorium.

The trainees knew where they were headed.

Foscue was going back to southern Arizona to work at the Tucson station. Her
husband, Matt, who also completed the training, was assigned to a neighboring
station.

Sorrento also was headed to Tucson.

Marquez was going to Boulevard, a station in the hills east of San Diego.

Graduation was a rapid affair. Michael McCall, a wry Georgia trainee, was
selected to give the class speech.

``When I came here, I could barely speak Spanish,'' he said. ``Well, now I'm
happy to say I can still barely speak Spanish.''

McCall became serious.

``Every member of Class 620 struggled with some part of the academics. It may
have been immigration law, Spanish or physical techniques,'' McCall said.
``Every member you see here today held on and didn't give up.''

The 34 graduates of the academy walked across the auditorium one by one and
accepted their credentials and badges. They stood and swore the oath of office.

Then they marched out, hugged their families, introduced them to classmates and
instructors, and fled the campus.

After five months, the new agents were eager to get to the border.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday

Cassidy: Readers react to column on immigration

BYLINE: Mike Cassidy, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words


Last week I tried to make the point that a letter aimed at scaring off immigrant
voters in Orange County was just one more obstacle to newcomers who want to
fully participate in the American conversation.

Some readers got it. Others railed at the notion that some of those voters might
have broken the rules to get here in the first place. Voters like Martha Campos,
who more than a decade ago overstayed her visa. She is now a U.S. citizen
leading a local charge to get eligible immigrants registered to vote and to the
polls.

Columns touching on immigration are a Rorschach test. One look and the reaction
is instant -- compassion, outrage, admiration, disgust.

``Why do journalists always come up with articles that reinforce again and again
a popular sentiment: All Latinos who violated U.S. immigration laws are
heroes?'' Manny B. wrote. Why not write about immigrants who follow the rules,
he asked.

Plenty of success stories

In fact, newspapers are full of stories about immigrants who arrive lawfully and
achieve great heights. This paper has covered many Silicon Valley immigrant
inventors and entrepreneurs who have made millions. They've created jobs. Some
have created charities. Others have focused on politics. Ever read about Tom
Lantos? Arnold Schwarzenegger ring a bell?

You see my point. But Manny B. has a point, too. It's not fair to those who wait
when others cut ahead in line. That's one reason Campos had to pay a fine for
her overstay. This is a nation of second chances, and Campos is making the most
of hers.

Since arriving from Mexico in 1995, Campos has married, become a citizen and
gone to work for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a San Jose
immigrants advocacy group.

One San Jose reader wrote that Campos is a hero. But she had another beef. The
column referred to a march that drew 25,000 demonstrators to San Jose. I was
reinforcing a point that last spring's immigrant rights marches could encourage
new citizens to vote. (``Yesterday we marched. Today we vote.'')

``You need to correct your numbers on the `first we march' side,'' she wrote.

Excellent point. I was thinking of an April march that drew 25,000 supporters.
But a second march in May brought 125,000 demonstrators downtown -- a much more
dramatic display and a better illustration of my own point.

Letter gets attention

A number of readers took issue with my description of a letter sent to some
Democratic Latino voters in Orange County. The letter warned that immigrants
could be jailed for voting.

``Again you either intentionally or negligently omitted the word `Illegal'
immigrants who could be jailed for voting,'' writes Harry of Foster City.

Well, no. The letter says immigrants-- no illegal about it -- risk arrest if
they vote. (See my blog www.mercextra.com/blogs/cassidy for links to the letter
in English and Spanish.)

Birmingham, a caller from San Jose, left a message saying the media have
translated the letter incorrectly. ``You ought to get your facts straight,'' he
said in signing off.

OK. Here are the facts, straight from the state Attorney General's Office.

``If we didn't believe the letter constituted unlawful voter intimidation,''
says AG spokesman Nathan Barankin, ``we wouldn't have an investigation.''

Not to mention: If the letter was meant as a public service, why isn't anyone
taking credit for it?

Seems pretty clear to me. You, however, may disagree.

Read Mike Cassidy's Loose Ends blog (www.mercextra.com/blogs/cassidy). Contact
him at mcassidy@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5536.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday

Democrats pledge tech attention;
CALIFORNIA WANTS ACTION ON RESEARCH AND IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Frank Davies, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. XX

LENGTH: 928 words


The seismic shift of power to Democrats in Congress gives a jolt of energy to
issues crucial to the Bay Area, from immigration to investment in research and
other tech priorities, according to advocates, analysts and House members.

``For all this to happen, after 12 years in the desert, is a little hard to
believe,'' said Rep. Anna Eshoo, a Palo Alto Democrat and close friend of Rep.
Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco, who basked in the media spotlight Wednesday,
poised to be the first woman and first Californian to become speaker of the
House.

Ron Dellums, a 27-year veteran of Congress who was elected mayor of Oakland,
stressed that his city and the Bay Area would gain from the enhanced power of
the region's congressional delegation.

``George Miller is chair. Tom Lantos is chair. Nancy Pelosi is speaker. We're
going to go lobby our friends in Washington,'' Dellums said.

Eshoo and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a San Jose Democrat, said Pelosi had already
committed to giving more attention to tech-sector issues, from renewing the
research and development tax credit to more investment in scientific research.

``A broad consensus of Democrats supports this, while Republicans talked about
it but didn't act,'' said Lofgren, who joined Eshoo and Pelosi to present an
``innovation agenda'' a year ago at Stanford University.

Lezlee Westine, president of Tech Net, a political network of technology company
CEOs in Washington, said she was hopeful that renewal of the tax credit and more
H-1B visas for tech workers would be approved in the lame-duck session of
Congress starting next week.

``Now that we're past this highly charged election environment, we're optimistic
on these issues -- they are not partisan,'' said Westine, who worked in the Bush
White House for Karl Rove.

She also said President Bush's competitiveness agenda, which languished after he
announced it in the State of the Union speech in January, and the Democrats'
innovation agenda ``were actually similar'' on the need for more scientific
research and investment.

Eshoo and Lofgren said that as ``network neutrality'' issues play out in
telecommunications legislation, Internet companies will get a more sympathetic
hearing from congressional Democrats. Telecom and cable companies that want the
latitude of charging different rates for Internet content generally had support
from GOP leaders.

The incoming chairs of the House committee and subcommittee that deal with that
issue -- John Dingell, D-Mich., and Ed Markey, D-Mass., respectively -- support
strong network-neutrality provisions, Eshoo added.

The complex, emotional issue of immigration reform may also provide ``common
ground'' for the Bush administration and congressional Democrats to forge an
agreement, Bush said at his Wednesday press conference.

This year, the Senate favored a comprehensive approach -- with a plan to
legalize the status of some of the nation's 12 million illegal residents -- but
GOP hard-liners in the House blocked it, hoping that would help Republicans in
the election.

That didn't happen, said advocates of legalization. Two hard-line opponents of
immigration reform lost in Arizona -- Rep. J.D. Hayworth and Randy Graf -- and
some polling shows that the unwillingness of GOP leaders to tackle this issue
fed into the disapproval of Congress.

Getting a comprehensive immigration plan into law ``would be a win-win for a
Democratic Congress and for Bush,'' said Maria Cardona, a Democratic consultant
who has worked on the issue.

The stalemate over immigration also blocked action on the H-1B visa cap, Sen.
John McCain, R-Ariz., told tech leaders in San Jose last week.

Jim Greenwood, a Pennsylvania Republican in the House during the 1990s, said
divided government does not have to mean gridlock. The Clinton administration
and the GOP Congress reached agreement on welfare reform and other issues.

Greenwood, who heads a biotech trade association, said immigration,
alternative-fuel investment and other non-partisan issues are areas where
progress can be made.

``The president wants to build some kind of legacy, and Democrats will want to
go into 2008 showing that they can accomplish something,'' he said.

Lofgren may chair the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, and said that
role would be ``a great opportunity'' to get something done, once the emotions
of an election year have cooled.

``A lot of the discussion on immigration has been at the bumper-sticker level,
and we need to get past that,'' Lofgren said.

Other Bay Area Democrats in the House in line for new leadership positions are
Rep. Tom Lantos of San Mateo, who will chair the International Relations
Committee, and Rep. George Miller of Concord, who takes over the Education and
Workforce Committee.

If Democrats secure a majority in the Senate, which seemed likely late
Wednesday, California's two senators will gain considerable clout as well.
Barbara Boxer would probably chair the Environment and Public Works Committee,
and Dianne Feinstein is in line to head subcommittees on technology and on
military construction.

Agreement on any issues will depend to a large extent on whether Bush and
congressional Democrats can actually work together. Wednesday, Bush and Pelosi
insisted they could.

Eshoo said the future speaker's emphasis on bipartisanship should not be
surprising.

``She understands in a powerful way that any important legislation has to be
done in a bipartisan way or it will divide people,'' Eshoo said.

Mercury News Staff Writer Dana Hull contributed to this report. Contact Frank
Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 11, 2006 Saturday

Schwarzenegger schmoozes with Mexico's next leader;
TOUTS POPULARITY, TALKS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Kate Folmar, MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 589 words


Meeting for the first time with Mexico's incoming president Friday, Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger marveled at his own recent success with Latino voters -- a
percentage he contends could have been amplified were it not for the ``sticking
point'' of granting driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants.

Fresh from his election victory, Schwarzenegger crammed the most into his final
hours of a two-day trade mission to Mexico: He invited President-elect Felipe
Calderón to visit California this spring. And he asked for the leader's help in
getting California spinach back in groceries south of the border. The industry
has been reeling since an E. coli outbreak this summer and is now banned for
export to Mexico.

Then he jetted to the northern tech center of Monterrey to sign a trade and
collaboration pact with the governor of the Nuevo Leon state. From there, he
attended a flashy exposition promoting California companies that produce clean
energy technology. And he whipped up an ``amigo salad'' with well-known Mexican
television chef Lulu Pedraza.

During the meeting with Calderón, both men expressed a desire for comprehensive
immigration reform. Schwarzenegger said it was ``crazy'' that the federal
government had not created a guest worker program along with border-tightening
measures.

Calderón, from the right-of-center PAN party, emerged victorious after a
contentious election this summer. He will succeed President Vicente Fox, with
whom Schwarzenegger met Thursday, in December.

``I got 40 percent of the Latino votes, which is unusual for a Republican,''
Schwarzenegger told Calderón, referring to exit poll results released by the
William C. Velasquez Institute. Then he asked one of his deputy chiefs of staff
what Republicans usually draw. The answer was 20 to 25 percent, Dan Dunmoyer
said. ``That's amazing,'' Calderón said.

The governor said he could have gotten ``way over 40 percent of the Latino
votes, but the sticking point is the driver's licenses,'' a reference to anger
over the governor's repeated veto of a bill to let undocumented workers obtain
California driver's licenses.

Schwarzenegger said Mexican reporters quizzed him on the topic. ``I said, `Do
you give driver's licenses in Mexico to the illegal immigrants?' ``And they said
no, and I said, `Well, you know, how do you expect us to give driver's
licenses?' . . . It's tough to do, until there's a system of assuring someone's
identity. ''

Later in the day, the governor segued into salesman mode, hyping the safety of
California spinach for a future broadcast with Chef Lulu, who hosts a weekly
television cooking show. Mexican officials are due to visit California spinach
farms over the next two weeks to determine whether it's safe to allow imports
again.

Schwarzenegger and Pedraza bantered as they tossed together California-grown
spinach, strawberries and walnuts, plus Monterrey cheese and cured meat.

Schwarzenegger, hamming it up, mentioned the leafy greens at least a dozen
times: ``Very nice: California spinach,'' ``California spinach, it builds
muscles,'' ``Don't forget the California spinach'' and ``Look at this California
spinach!''

Pedraza responded: ``I am going to dream tonight of California spinach.''

The dollar value of California spinach sold in Mexico is relatively small --
about $388,000 a year. But, ``we're here in Mexico and have a lot of media
attention,'' said Schwarzenegger's communications director, Adam Mendelsohn.
``It's as much symbolic as financial.''

Contact Kate Folmar at kfolmar@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4602.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 11, 2006 Saturday

Schwarzenegger schmoozes with Mexico's next leader;
TOUTS POPULARITY, TALKS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Kate Folmar, MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 589 words


Meeting for the first time with Mexico's incoming president Friday, Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger marveled at his own recent success with Latino voters -- a
percentage he contends could have been amplified were it not for the ``sticking
point'' of granting driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants.

Fresh from his election victory, Schwarzenegger crammed the most into his final
hours of a two-day trade mission to Mexico: He invited President-elect Felipe
Calderón to visit California this spring. And he asked for the leader's help in
getting California spinach back in groceries south of the border. The industry
has been reeling since an E. coli outbreak this summer and is now banned for
export to Mexico.

Then he jetted to the northern tech center of Monterrey to sign a trade and
collaboration pact with the governor of the Nuevo Leon state. From there, he
attended a flashy exposition promoting California companies that produce clean
energy technology. And he whipped up an ``amigo salad'' with well-known Mexican
television chef Lulu Pedraza.

During the meeting with Calderón, both men expressed a desire for comprehensive
immigration reform. Schwarzenegger said it was ``crazy'' that the federal
government had not created a guest worker program along with border-tightening
measures.

Calderón, from the right-of-center PAN party, emerged victorious after a
contentious election this summer. He will succeed President Vicente Fox, with
whom Schwarzenegger met Thursday, in December.

``I got 40 percent of the Latino votes, which is unusual for a Republican,''
Schwarzenegger told Calderón, referring to exit poll results released by the
William C. Velasquez Institute. Then he asked one of his deputy chiefs of staff
what Republicans usually draw. The answer was 20 to 25 percent, Dan Dunmoyer
said. ``That's amazing,'' Calderón said.

The governor said he could have gotten ``way over 40 percent of the Latino
votes, but the sticking point is the driver's licenses,'' a reference to anger
over the governor's repeated veto of a bill to let undocumented workers obtain
California driver's licenses.

Schwarzenegger said Mexican reporters quizzed him on the topic. ``I said, `Do
you give driver's licenses in Mexico to the illegal immigrants?' ``And they said
no, and I said, `Well, you know, how do you expect us to give driver's
licenses?' . . . It's tough to do, until there's a system of assuring someone's
identity. ''

Later in the day, the governor segued into salesman mode, hyping the safety of
California spinach for a future broadcast with Chef Lulu, who hosts a weekly
television cooking show. Mexican officials are due to visit California spinach
farms over the next two weeks to determine whether it's safe to allow imports
again.

Schwarzenegger and Pedraza bantered as they tossed together California-grown
spinach, strawberries and walnuts, plus Monterrey cheese and cured meat.

Schwarzenegger, hamming it up, mentioned the leafy greens at least a dozen
times: ``Very nice: California spinach,'' ``California spinach, it builds
muscles,'' ``Don't forget the California spinach'' and ``Look at this California
spinach!''

Pedraza responded: ``I am going to dream tonight of California spinach.''

The dollar value of California spinach sold in Mexico is relatively small --
about $388,000 a year. But, ``we're here in Mexico and have a lot of media
attention,'' said Schwarzenegger's communications director, Adam Mendelsohn.
``It's as much symbolic as financial.''

Contact Kate Folmar at kfolmar@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4602.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

Voters reject immigrant-bashing among candidates

BYLINE: Andres Oppenheimer

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 795 words


Hispanics said ``adios'' to President Bush's Republican Party in Tuesday's
midterm elections, voting in much greater numbers than expected for Democratic
candidates in an apparent rejection of the ruling party's efforts to blame much
of the nation's problems on undocumented migrants.

Contrary to experts' predictions that Hispanics would not turn out massively
Tuesday, exit polls show that Hispanics accounted for 8 percent of the total
vote. That is about equal to the Hispanic vote's record turnout in the 2004
presidential election, and much more than its turnout in previous midterm
elections.

What's more, 73 percent of Hispanics voted for the Democratic Party on Tuesday,
while only 26 percent voted for Republican candidates, CNN exit polls show. In
the 2004 presidential elections, 55 percent of Hispanics voted Democrat and
about 42 percent voted Republican.

Many experts had predicted that Hispanics would not turn out in big numbers
Tuesday, in part because most of the hottest races took place in states with no
major Hispanic presence. Also, experts said that it would take until the 2008
elections for the largely Hispanic ``today we march, tomorrow we vote'' protests
of earlier this year to translate into the naturalization and registration of
large numbers of foreign-born Latino voters.

But the anti-immigration hysteria spearheaded by Republicans in the House -- and
by cable television fear-mongers such as Pat Buchanan and Lou Dobbs -- irked
many U.S.-born Hispanics who normally don't care much about immigration.

Republican sponsorship of a law to build a 700-mile fence along the Mexican
border and Republican House members' efforts to pass a bill that would have
turned millions of undocumented workers into felons fueled a climate that many
Hispanics saw as veiled racism.

Sure, Republican anti-immigration crusaders said they are against only illegal
immigration, and that they have nothing against Hispanics.

But when they accused Hispanic immigrants of draining Social Security coffers,
clogging schools and hospitals, being potential terrorists and bringing
infectious diseases into the United States -- I'm not making this up -- millions
of Hispanic-heritage U.S. citizens felt insulted. It was as if all Hispanics
were suddenly cast as potential national security threats.

If the Republican effort to put immigration at the center stage of the political
agenda was aimed at drawing national attention away from Iraq, or to mobilize
their constituencies to get out and vote Tuesday, it didn't work with the
general public, either.

Exit polls show that when asked which issues were extremely important to them,
42 percent of all voters Tuesday said corruption and ethics, 40 percent said
terrorism, 39 percent mentioned the economy, 37 percent said Iraq, 36 percent
said values and 29 percent said illegal immigration.

And many candidates who campaigned on get-tough-against-illegal-immigrants were
defeated. Randy Graf, an Arizona Republican who centered his campaign on
immigrant bashing and supported the Minuteman vigilante group, was among the
many defeated anti-immigration candidates.

Of 15 races where immigration was the center of the debate, tracked by
www.immigration2006.org, 12 were won by immigration moderates and only two by
hard-line anti-immigration activists.

Even some Democrats who embraced the anti-immigration cause, such as Tennessee
Senate candidate Harold Ford, who accused his Republican rival of having hired
illegal immigrants, were defeated.

My opinion: Great! The Republican strategy of blaming undocumented workers for
many of the country's ills backfired. Now, with luck, candidates for the 2008
presidential election will abandon the populist enforcement-centered political
deceptions of anti-immigration crusaders and seek serious solutions to stop the
flow of migrants to the U.S. borders.

Instead of backing a useless 700-mile fence, which will only push migrants to
enter the United States elsewhere along the 2,000-mile border, they should look
into ways of helping reduce the income gap between the United States, Mexico and
the rest of Latin America.

As long as the United States' per capita income of $42,000 a year continues to
be as far ahead of Mexico's $10,000 a year, or Nicaragua's $2,900 a year, there
will be no fences high or wide enough to stop the flow of migrants.

As the European example shows, the only way to reduce migration will be greater
economic integration, including offers of aid conditioned to responsible
economic policies. Hopefully, both parties will hear this message from Tuesday's
vote and turn their backs to the deceptive enforcement-only remedies offered by
anti-immigration fear mongers in recent months.

ANDRES OPPENHEIMER is a Latin America correspondent for the Miami Herald.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Conviction could lead to possible deportation

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 444 words


Q In my teens, I got in trouble with the law and went to jail. I have been a
model tax-paying resident since. I have lived in the United States for 27 years.
I am 30 years old and I'm a permanent U.S. resident. My concern is this: I have
been reading a lot about people getting sent back to their country of birth for
felonies they committed decades ago. I was wondering if there is any way I can
clean my record or do something to prevent from becoming a deportee. I have
heard that since I am only a guest here, a permanent resident, that I'm held to
a higher standard than most. Everyone makes mistakes. So are there any steps I
can take to rectify my current predicament? I'm planning to leave the United
States for a vacation abroad but I'm fearful of not being able to re-enter. My
whole life is here.

Nhan PhanSan Jose

A  We asked immigration lawyer Nora Privitera, at the Immigrant Legal Resource
Center in San Francisco. Here's what she wrote:

``Nhan could be deportable, but it depends on what he was convicted of. If he
has a juvenile record then he can be reassured that juvenile findings usually
don't make someone deportable, because they are not considered ``convictions''
for immigration purposes. An exception to this rule is being a drug abuser or
addict, which does not require a conviction.

``If he was convicted as an adult, whether or not he was over 18, then he should
see an immigration lawyer to find out whether it's the kind of conviction that
could make him deportable. If so, he should consult with a lawyer to find out
what he can do to erase it or what relief from deportation he may be eligible
for.''

Citizenship informational workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services has scheduled a workshop in San Jose, an ``Overview of
Naturalization.''

The workshop will be from 6 to 8 p.m. Tuesday at the youth center at Mexican
American Community Services Agency, 660 Sinclair Drive, San Jose.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

New U.S. citizenship test gets trial

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 251 words


Immigrants in 10 cities around the country will be the first to try a new U.S.
citizenship test, as part of a pilot project in the redesign of the required
exam.

None of the cities are in the Bay Area or California.

``We're not trying to make the test harder,'' said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman
for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. ``We want to refine the exam
and get right down to what's important.''

Beginning in January, volunteer immigrants will be recruited in Albany, N.Y.;
Boston; Charleston, S.C.; Denver; El Paso; Kansas City, Mo.; San Antonio; Tucson
and Yakima, Wash., to take the new test as part of the pilot project that's
expected to last three to four months.

The redesign of the test will include ``getting rid of some of the more
frivolous questions and make it meaningful for our new citizens,'' Rummery said.

One such question, Rummery said: What are the American flag colors?

From the pilot project, USCIS will come up with a redesigned test and in 2008,
it will be used nationwide.

Permanent residents who have been in the United States for five years and
qualify to apply for citizenship are required to take a simple exam about
American government and civics. They are usually asked a half-dozen questions
from a set of about 100.

``We want to encourage people to understand our values as a nation,'' Rummery
said. ``We want a new test that will result in our new citizens being prepared
citizens.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

New citizenship test to be tested by new immigrants

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 252 words


Immigrants in 10 cities around the country will be the first to try a new U.S.
citizenship test, as part of a pilot project in the redesign of the required
exam.

None of the cities are in the Bay Area or California.

``We're not trying to make the test harder,'' said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman
for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. ``We want to refine the exam
and get right down to what's important.''

Beginning in January next year, volunteer immigrants will be recruited in
Albany, N.Y.; Boston, Charleston, S.C.; Denver; El Paso; Kansas City, MO; San
Antonio; Tucson and Yucama to take the new test as part of the pilot project
that's expected to last three to four months.

The redesign of the test will include ``getting rid of some of the more
frivolous questions and make it meaningful for our new citizens,'' Rummery said.

One such question, Rummery said: What are the American flag colors?

From the pilot project, USCIS will come up with a redesigned test and in 2008,
it will be used nationwide.

Permanent residents who have been in the United States for five years and
qualify to apply for citizenship, are required to take a simple exam about
American government and civics. They are usually asked half-dozen questions from
a set of about 100 questions.

``We want to encourage people to understand our values as a nation,'' Rummery
said. ``We want a new test that will result in our new citizens being prepared
citizens.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday

Man deported for lying about academic status;
HAD SAID HE WAS NOBEL CANDIDATE

BYLINE: Josh Richman, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


A Fremont man has been deported to Pakistan for lying about his academic
credentials and posing as a Nobel Prize nominee to secure a green card,
immigration officials reported Monday.

Although prosecutors once claimed Shehrezad Faruk Czar had an ``association with
at least one leader of a recognized international terrorist organization,''
Monday's news release called it a ``controversial Pakistani political group . .
. linked to several acts of violence.''

Czar, 38, arrived Saturday in Pakistan aboard a commercial flight, according to
the Department of Homeland Security's Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. He was indicted by a federal grand jury in April and pleaded guilty
in September to making fraudulent statements in order to obtain legal permanent
residence here.

He admitted that in applying for an employment-based visa as an immigrant of
``extraordinary ability'' five years ago, he had falsely claimed to have
graduated as a medical doctor from Dow Medical College in 1987.

He also claimed in his visa application that he had been nominated for a Nobel
Prize for ``outstanding research in applied economics, quantum physics and
mathematical sciences,'' and had earned doctorates in ``quantum economics'' and
``econo-physics'' from the ``University of Berkley.''

San Francisco Immigration and Customs Enforcement Chief Counsel Ronald LeFevre
said ``those who use fake documents and fraudulent information to obtain visas
and gain immigration benefits are stealing a precious gift from the American
people. Beyond that, visa fraud poses a serious threat not only to the integrity
of our nation's legal immigration system, but also to the security of our
country.''

Prosecutors filed court documents in April to prevent Czar's release on bail,
claiming Czar admitted knowing and e-mailing Altaf Hussain, the founder and
leader of the Muttahida Quami Movement, a Pakistani political party representing
Urdu-speaking Muslims and allegedly responsible for crimes including murder,
kidnapping and at least one bombing.

But neither the MQM nor Altaf Hussain -- living in exile in London -- are on
State and Treasury department lists of foreign terrorist organizations and
individuals.

Ibad Rehman, a Virginia lawyer for the MQM, said in April he knew of no other
U.S. court filing in which the government had claimed the MQM is a terrorist
group. This case's claims were a ``100 percent different position'' than that
taken by U.S. diplomats in Pakistan, he said, and any claims that Hussain faced
criminal charges or was responsible for violence are ``untrue.''

The MQM, which holds seats in Pakistan's National Assembly, issued a statement
in April saying it is ``the only political party in Pakistan which is openly
challenging and peacefully struggling against religious extremists,'' and has
``unconditionally supported the international community and the United States in
the war against terrorism.''

The investigation found that while Czar received public assistance from Alameda
County since April 2003, he received an overseas cash transfer of almost $10,000
in late 2005.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday

Bay Area man deported to Pakistan;
POSING AS NOBEL PRIZE NOMINEE LEADS TO ACTION

BYLINE: Josh Richman, MediaNews

LENGTH: 510 words


A Fremont man has been deported to Pakistan for lying about his academic bona
fides and posing as a Nobel Prize nominee in order to secure a green card,
immigration officials reported Monday.

Although prosecutors once claimed Shehrezad Faruk Czar had ``association with at
least one leader of a recognized international terrorist organization,''
Monday's news release called it a ``controversial Pakistani political group...
linked to several acts of violence.''

Czar, 38, arrived Saturday in Pakistan aboard a commercial flight, according to
the Department of Homeland Security's Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. He was indicted by a federal grand jury in April and pleaded guilty
in September to making fraudulent statements in order to obtain legal permanent
residence here.

He admitted that in applying for an employment-based visa as an alien of
``extraordinary ability'' five years ago, he had falsely claimed to have
graduated as a medical doctor from Dow Medical College in 1987.

He also claimed in his visa application that he had been nominated for a Nobel
Prize for ``outstanding research in applied economics, quantum physics and
mathematical sciences,'' and had earned doctorates in ``quantum economics'' and
``econo-physics'' from the ``University of Berkley.''

San Francisco ICE Chief Counsel Ronald LeFevre said ``those who use fake
documents and fraudulent information to obtain visas and gain immigration
benefits are stealing a precious gift from the American people. Beyond that,
visa fraud poses a serious threat not only to the integrity of our nation's
legal immigration system, but also to the security of our country.''

Prosecutors filed court documents in April to prevent Czar's release on bail,
claiming Czar admitted knowing and e-mailing Altaf Hussain, the founder and
leader of the Muttahida Quami Movement (MQM): a Pakistani political party
representing Urdu-speaking Muslims and allegedly responsible for crimes
including murder, kidnapping and at least one bombing.

But neither the MQM nor Altaf Hussain _ living in exile in London _ are on State
and Treasury department lists of foreign terrorist organizations and
individuals.

Ibad Rehman, a Virginia lawyer for the MQM, said in April he knew of no other
U.S. court filing in which the government had claimed the MQM is a terrorist
group. This case's claims were a ``100 percent different position'' than that
taken by U.S. diplomats in Pakistan, he said, and any claims that Hussein faced
criminal charges or was responsible for violence are ``untrue.''

The MQM, which holds seats in Pakistan's National Assembly, issued a statement
in April saying it's ``the only political party in Pakistan which is openly
challenging and peacefully struggling against religious extremists,'' and has
``unconditionally supported the international community and the United States in
the war against terrorism.''

The investigation found that while Czar received public assistance from Alameda
County since April 2003, he received an overseas cash transfer of almost $10,000
in late 2005.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Travelers to Mexico will need a passport

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words


Q My mother is ailing and I might need to go to Mexico soon. I am an American
citizen and I have my naturalization certificate. I've heard that now I am
required to have a current passport in order to re-enter the United States. Is
it true?

Manny MezaSan Jose

A As part of the government's recent efforts to secure U.S. borders and to beef
up national security, changes will soon be in place for travel documents
required of U.S. citizens. It used to be that U.S. citizens were able to cross
into Mexico or Canada, and re-enter the United States with just a driver's
license.

But it's a different time. The straight answer to your question is yes, you will
need a U.S. passport if you're flying into Mexico. It's fairly simple to get a
U.S. passport.

Visit the U.S. Department of State for detailed information:
http://travel.state.gov/passport/pass port_1738.html, or make an appointment at
the San Francisco office of the Passport Agency to apply in person:
http://travel.state.gov/passport/about/agencies/agencies_900.html.

This is what the U.S. Department of State says on its Web site about the
changes: ``In January 2007, ALL persons, including U.S. citizens, traveling by
air between the United States and Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the
Caribbean, and Bermuda will be required to present a valid passport, Air NEXUS
card, or U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Document.

``As early as January 1, 2008, ALL persons, including U.S. citizens, traveling
between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean,
and Bermuda by land or sea (including ferries), may be required to present a
valid passport or other documents as determined by the Department of Homeland
Security. While recent legislative changes permit a later deadline, the
Departments of State and Homeland Security are working to meet all requirements
as soon as possible. Ample advance notice will be provided to enable the public
to obtain passports or passport cards for land/sea entries.''

Citizenship informational workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services has scheduled ``Overview of Naturalization,'' a workshop on how to
complete the application for U.S. citizenship.

The workshop will be held from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. Thursday at John XXIII
Multi-Service Center, 195 E. San Fernando St., San Jose.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Travelers to Mexico will need a passport

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words


Q My mother is ailing and I might need to go to Mexico soon. I am an American
citizen and I have my naturalization certificate. I've heard that now I am
required to have a current passport in order to re-enter the United States. Is
it true?

Manny MezaSan Jose

A As part of the government's recent efforts to secure U.S. borders and to beef
up national security, changes will soon be in place for travel documents
required of U.S. citizens. It used to be that U.S. citizens were able to cross
into Mexico or Canada, and re-enter the United States with just a driver's
license.

But it's a different time. The straight answer to your question is yes, you will
need a U.S. passport if you're flying into Mexico. It's fairly simple to get a
U.S. passport.

Visit the U.S. Department of State for detailed information:
http://travel.state.gov/passport/pass port_1738.html, or make an appointment at
the San Francisco office of the Passport Agency to apply in person:
http://travel.state.gov/passport/about/agencies/agencies_900.html.

This is what the U.S. Department of State says on its Web site about the
changes: ``In January 2007, ALL persons, including U.S. citizens, traveling by
air between the United States and Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the
Caribbean, and Bermuda will be required to present a valid passport, Air NEXUS
card, or U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Document.

``As early as January 1, 2008, ALL persons, including U.S. citizens, traveling
between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean,
and Bermuda by land or sea (including ferries), may be required to present a
valid passport or other documents as determined by the Department of Homeland
Security. While recent legislative changes permit a later deadline, the
Departments of State and Homeland Security are working to meet all requirements
as soon as possible. Ample advance notice will be provided to enable the public
to obtain passports or passport cards for land/sea entries.''

Citizenship informational workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services has scheduled ``Overview of Naturalization,'' a workshop on how to
complete the application for U.S. citizenship.

The workshop will be held from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. Thursday at John XXIII
Multi-Service Center, 195 E. San Fernando St., San Jose.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 2, 2006 Saturday

IS THAT YOUR FINAL ANSWER?

BYLINE: Dan Reed, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 344 words


United States immigration authorities should brush up on geography before
testing others on it.

In a new test, unveiled Thursday by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, immigrants who are trying to become Americans are asked the following:
``What is the longest river in the United States?''

The only acceptable answer, the government says, is ``The Mississippi.''
Unfortunately, the government is wrong. The correct answer is ``The Missouri''--
which several readers helpfully pointed out to the Mercury News after the paper
published a story on the new test Friday.

One of those readers was Jim Carlisle of Cupertino, who had this to say: ``New
immigrants trying to get citizenship must think we are morons if we can't even
get our citizenship test correct.''

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, was taken aback by the
gaffe and wasn't sure how it happened. ``You're kidding!'' she said Friday.
``Thanks for the feedback. I'm going to get word back to our people
immediately.''

Not that the Mercury News wasn't as boneheaded as the government, since we
printed its wrong answer.

It's the kind of fact that's fairly easy to check. And it would be too bad if an
immigrant boned up for the test, gave the right answer and then was sent
packing.

But they'd also have to miss three others. The new test, which will be tried out
in 10 cities starting early next year, contains 144 questions. Applicants are
asked 10, and must correctly answer six.

Doug Spencer, a spokesman for the United States Geological Survey, said federal
scientists measured the Missouri River at 2,540 miles and the Mississippi River
at 2,340 miles -- which is 201 miles shy of making the test correct. The
Missouri River is also the chief of the Mississippi's many tributaries.

So what should the immigration agency do about the question? ``Correct it or
throw it out,'' said Spencer, who added with a laugh: ``Everybody who failed
that exam as a result of it should probably have their citizenship
automatically.''

Contact Dan Reed at dreed@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5771.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 2, 2006 Saturday

IS THAT YOUR FINAL ANSWER?

BYLINE: Dan Reed, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 344 words


United States immigration authorities should brush up on geography before
testing others on it.

In a new test, unveiled Thursday by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, immigrants who are trying to become Americans are asked the following:
``What is the longest river in the United States?''

The only acceptable answer, the government says, is ``The Mississippi.''
Unfortunately, the government is wrong. The correct answer is ``The Missouri''--
which several readers helpfully pointed out to the Mercury News after the paper
published a story on the new test Friday.

One of those readers was Jim Carlisle of Cupertino, who had this to say: ``New
immigrants trying to get citizenship must think we are morons if we can't even
get our citizenship test correct.''

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, was taken aback by the
gaffe and wasn't sure how it happened. ``You're kidding!'' she said Friday.
``Thanks for the feedback. I'm going to get word back to our people
immediately.''

Not that the Mercury News wasn't as boneheaded as the government, since we
printed its wrong answer.

It's the kind of fact that's fairly easy to check. And it would be too bad if an
immigrant boned up for the test, gave the right answer and then was sent
packing.

But they'd also have to miss three others. The new test, which will be tried out
in 10 cities starting early next year, contains 144 questions. Applicants are
asked 10, and must correctly answer six.

Doug Spencer, a spokesman for the United States Geological Survey, said federal
scientists measured the Missouri River at 2,540 miles and the Mississippi River
at 2,340 miles -- which is 201 miles shy of making the test correct. The
Missouri River is also the chief of the Mississippi's many tributaries.

So what should the immigration agency do about the question? ``Correct it or
throw it out,'' said Spencer, who added with a laugh: ``Everybody who failed
that exam as a result of it should probably have their citizenship
automatically.''

Contact Dan Reed at dreed@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5771.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience:Be wary of Internet help for citizenship application

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 479 words


Q I have been a permanent resident for about 20 years and just recently began
the process of becoming a U.S. citizen. I went online and was able to purchase
an application. I have completed it, but now I am unsure of what the next step
is. Everywhere I go on the Internet, I seem to find the information I need but I
have to pay for it. Is it possible to go through the entire process without
hiring a lawyer or without paying more than the passport pictures and filing fee
of $400? I also understand that the fee is increasing to $800. When is that due
to happen?

Maria L.San Jose

A Take careful steps when you're using online immigration services. You've
probably discovered on your own search that the Internet is filled with services
-- some reputable, some not -- to help you apply for immigration benefits with
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Some require a fee to help you
complete application forms.

Some non-profit organizations that work with immigrants, such as the Center for
Employment Training (CET) in San Jose, can help you complete the application and
guide you through the process for applying for citizenship, said Adriana
Gonzalez, CET immigration and citizenship program director.

Application forms for citizenship are free of charge and can be downloaded from
the immigration services Web site, www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis.

Gonzalez said there's limited funding to help immigrants with the application
process, but all you'll have to pay are the fees required by the immigration
services.

In more complicated cases where there may be red flags, she suggests you consult
with an immigration attorney or an immigration expert accredited by the Board of
Immigration Appeals. CET charges a small fee in these cases. Their address is:
CET, Immigration and Citizenship Program, 701 Vine St., San Jose, Calif., 95110.
Telephone: 408-534-5451.

Fees for filing citizenship applications have increased in recent years. It was
$95 in 1995. Now it is $320, plus additional fees for fingerprinting. It's
likely to increase, Gonzalez said, but when is the unanswered question.

Q After hearing rumors that American citizens were going to be required to have
a U.S. passport when traveling into Mexico, I located this information from the
U.S. Department of State: ``In January 2007, ALL persons, including U.S.
citizens, traveling by air between the United States and Canada, Mexico, Central
and South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda will be required to present a valid
passport, Air NEXUS card or U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Document.''

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience:Be wary of Internet help for citizenship application

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 479 words


Q I have been a permanent resident for about 20 years and just recently began
the process of becoming a U.S. citizen. I went online and was able to purchase
an application. I have completed it, but now I am unsure of what the next step
is. Everywhere I go on the Internet, I seem to find the information I need but I
have to pay for it. Is it possible to go through the entire process without
hiring a lawyer or without paying more than the passport pictures and filing fee
of $400? I also understand that the fee is increasing to $800. When is that due
to happen?

Maria L.San Jose

A Take careful steps when you're using online immigration services. You've
probably discovered on your own search that the Internet is filled with services
-- some reputable, some not -- to help you apply for immigration benefits with
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Some require a fee to help you
complete application forms.

Some non-profit organizations that work with immigrants, such as the Center for
Employment Training (CET) in San Jose, can help you complete the application and
guide you through the process for applying for citizenship, said Adriana
Gonzalez, CET immigration and citizenship program director.

Application forms for citizenship are free of charge and can be downloaded from
the immigration services Web site, www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis.

Gonzalez said there's limited funding to help immigrants with the application
process, but all you'll have to pay are the fees required by the immigration
services.

In more complicated cases where there may be red flags, she suggests you consult
with an immigration attorney or an immigration expert accredited by the Board of
Immigration Appeals. CET charges a small fee in these cases. Their address is:
CET, Immigration and Citizenship Program, 701 Vine St., San Jose, Calif., 95110.
Telephone: 408-534-5451.

Fees for filing citizenship applications have increased in recent years. It was
$95 in 1995. Now it is $320, plus additional fees for fingerprinting. It's
likely to increase, Gonzalez said, but when is the unanswered question.

Q After hearing rumors that American citizens were going to be required to have
a U.S. passport when traveling into Mexico, I located this information from the
U.S. Department of State: ``In January 2007, ALL persons, including U.S.
citizens, traveling by air between the United States and Canada, Mexico, Central
and South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda will be required to present a valid
passport, Air NEXUS card or U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Document.''

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 15, 2006 Friday

Washington and national news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 231 words

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Security officials table exit-monitoring system

In a major blow to the Bush administration's efforts to secure borders,
domestic-security officials have for now given up plans to develop a facial- or
fingerprint-recognition system to determine whether foreign visitors leave the
country, officials say.

Domestic security officials had described the system, known as U.S. Visit, as
critical to security and important in efforts to curb illegal immigration.
Nearly 30 percent of illegal immigrants are believed to have overstayed their
visas, a congressional report says.

But in recent days, officials at the Homeland Security Department have conceded
that they lack the financing and technology to institute the plan.

NEW YORK

Rev. Haggard's accuser signs book contract

Gay ex-escort Mike Jones has signed to write a sexually explicit memoir about
his relationship with fallen evangelist Ted Haggard.

``It's not a book about bashing Ted at all,'' Jones said Thursday. ``It's
humanizing him as a person with feelings and emotions and desires.''

Jones, 49, won't say how much the book deal is worth. Just before the November
election, the muscular massage therapist went public about a three-year
relationship with Haggard -- married president of the 30 million-member National
Association of Evangelicals and a leader in the anti-gay political movement.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Fiancee visa the ticket for man's Japanese wife

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 466 words


Q My son, a U.S. citizen, married a Japanese citizen in Japan in December 2005
and then in another ceremony, in the United States on October 2006, because they
also wanted an American wedding. She is pregnant and due in April. My son would
like to have her come and have the baby here in the United States. Will
immigration let her into the United States when she is seven or eight months
pregnant? She, of course, is married to a U.S. citizen but is not a citizen
herself. How does she go about becoming a U.S. citizen, with being married to my
son in Japan and here. He is a full-time graduate student in Japan and has a
year or two more of classes. They would like to move here.

Wanda BinkleyCupertino

A We asked Ning Gan, an immigration lawyer in San Jose to consider your
question. Here's what she wrote by e-mail:

``A Japanese citizen may come to the United States under the visa waiver
program. No visa is required and the maximum stay per visit is 90 days. But the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services may question the visitor if they
suspect that the visitor may intend to stay permanently. Since the
daughter-in-law is married to the U.S. citizen son, the daughter-in-law is
deemed an `intending immigrant.' The appropriate visa your daughter-in-law
should apply for is a K-3 visa, or a fiancee visa. But it will take six to nine
months to receive.

``For the daughter-in-law to become a U.S. citizen, she has to become a
permanent resident first. Her son may submit the I-130 immigrant petition
directly with the U.S. consulate in Japan. After the daughter-in-law becomes a
permanent resident, she has to wait for at least two years and nine months
before she is eligible to file for U.S. citizenship.''

Citizenship informational workshops: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services has scheduled ``Overview of Naturalization,'' a workshop on the U.S.
citizenship application process.

The workshop will be held Jan. 24, from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. Library, 150 E. San Fernando St., San Jose. The session will be
conducted in English.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm by calling the
reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Fiancee visa the ticket for man's Japanese wife

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 466 words


Q My son, a U.S. citizen, married a Japanese citizen in Japan in December 2005
and then in another ceremony, in the United States on October 2006, because they
also wanted an American wedding. She is pregnant and due in April. My son would
like to have her come and have the baby here in the United States. Will
immigration let her into the United States when she is seven or eight months
pregnant? She, of course, is married to a U.S. citizen but is not a citizen
herself. How does she go about becoming a U.S. citizen, with being married to my
son in Japan and here. He is a full-time graduate student in Japan and has a
year or two more of classes. They would like to move here.

Wanda BinkleyCupertino

A We asked Ning Gan, an immigration lawyer in San Jose to consider your
question. Here's what she wrote by e-mail:

``A Japanese citizen may come to the United States under the visa waiver
program. No visa is required and the maximum stay per visit is 90 days. But the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services may question the visitor if they
suspect that the visitor may intend to stay permanently. Since the
daughter-in-law is married to the U.S. citizen son, the daughter-in-law is
deemed an `intending immigrant.' The appropriate visa your daughter-in-law
should apply for is a K-3 visa, or a fiancee visa. But it will take six to nine
months to receive.

``For the daughter-in-law to become a U.S. citizen, she has to become a
permanent resident first. Her son may submit the I-130 immigrant petition
directly with the U.S. consulate in Japan. After the daughter-in-law becomes a
permanent resident, she has to wait for at least two years and nine months
before she is eligible to file for U.S. citizenship.''

Citizenship informational workshops: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services has scheduled ``Overview of Naturalization,'' a workshop on the U.S.
citizenship application process.

The workshop will be held Jan. 24, from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. Library, 150 E. San Fernando St., San Jose. The session will be
conducted in English.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm by calling the
reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

IMMIGRANTS SEND HOPE

BYLINE: Katherine Corcoran, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words


In the center of this pueblo 22 miles south of the city of Oaxaca sits a
magnificent terra cotta-colored city hall, with grand arches framing the
breezeway and a second-story balcony, a symbol of the intricate ties between the
tiny village and the Bay Area.

Immigrants from that village who now live in Santa Clara and Monterey counties
raised and sent back $19,000 in seed money to build the city hall, along with
$11,000 to restore a 400-year-old statue of St. Paul that sits in the pulpit of
the 17th-century church across the plaza.

As Congress continues to debate its immigration policy, this is a scenario
replicated countless times across the United States -- American cities so
closely linked to towns in Mexico that it's difficult to imagine a wall or
immigration crackdown coming between them. And among dozens of tales about how
immigration has devastated rural communities in Mexico, the story of San Pablo
Huixtepec stands apart. Connections between residents here and places such as
San Jose, Santa Cruz and Seaside -- dating back more than 20 years -- have meant
prosperity in both places.

``It was much poorer,'' Silvia Echevarria said of San Pablo when she and her
husband, Francisco Villa Arango Ortega, left in the mid-1980s to work in the
fields and hotels of Monterey County. ```Little by little, it's gotten better,
very developed. The way people live. They have houses like here, with rooms and
bathrooms and kitchens. Before, no.''

In fact, Echevarria now makes her living running a team of couriers who shuttle
goods the more than 2,000 miles between the South Bay and San Pablo three times
a week. Local families drop off DVD players, computers, sweaters, boots and --
for the recent holiday season -- Christmas lights at her bougainvillea-shrouded,
Seaside bungalow to deliver to loved ones in Mexico.

Echevarria, 41, a legal permanent U.S. resident, herself flies every other week,
returning from San Pablo with delicacies to soothe the homesick: Oaxacan
chocolate, mole, quesillo (cheese), tlayudas (giant crisp tortillas) and
chapulines (grasshoppers), as well as doctor's prescriptions and other personal
items sent from family members to loved ones up north.

``Medicine here is really expensive,'' she said. ``So a doctor here will call a
doctor there, tell him the symptoms and then he sends a prescription that is
much cheaper.''

Her family-run business is one of at least 10 serving Seaside, which has
transformed in the past 20 years from a military town where nearly half the
residents were African-American to a place that is now 30 percent Latino, the
vast majority from San Pablo and surrounding pueblos.

Oaxacan presence

About 60,000 immigrants from the state of Oaxaca live in the South Bay, and
about 1.5 million Oaxacans live in all of the United States, said Beltrán Arenas
Velazco, formerly of the Instituto Oaxaqueño de Atención al Migrante, a state
agency in downtown Oaxaca that assists people who have emigrated.

Recently, violence erupted in Oaxaca's capital city when a teacher's strike grew
into a protest calling for the state governor to resign. Federal troops, sent in
to calm the unrest, have left, and life has generally returned to normal.

Migration from remote states in southern Mexico has been more recent -- since
roughly the 1980s -- compared with Michoacan or Zacatecas, which have lost
people for at least a half century, he said. Oaxaca, Mexico's second-poorest
state after Chiapas, has as many as 80,000 of its residents leave to cross the
border each year.

``It's a question of economics,'' Arenas said, noting that the trend started in
the 1980s when a drought led to a farming crisis. ``They don't want to leave,
they have to. They don't have services, water, electricity, health, education.''

Those immigrants, including many who now live in the South Bay, have a long
tradition of giving back to their towns. Mexico receives about $20 billion in
remittances from workers abroad, the second-largest source of foreign income
next to oil revenues. The social cost of immigration, however, has been
devastated communities, where most men have left and only the very young or very
old remain.

But over the years, an odd thing happened to San Pablo, which has lost about
6,000 people -- the population of the whole town in 1980 -- to immigration. The
number of residents jumped 35 percent to 8,470 by 2000, the most recent census
data available. Rather than a feminization of the population seen in similar
pueblos, there are still nine men in San Pablo for every 10 women.

Many say that's because residents used remittance money not only to support
their families but also toward broader economic development in a sea of dire
poverty.

``Most of the money in most communities has gone to individuals,'' said James
Grieshop, a University of California-Davis faculty member in human and community
development who has studied San Pablo. ``But some communities try to channel it,
and that has happened in San Pablo.''

Antonio ``Alvaro'' Morales, 44, owner of the San Pablo Bakery in Seaside, is one
example. At age 14 he started working seasonally in California, leaving San
Pablo, where he said there was no work. Back then, the streets were unpaved and
the homes were made of mud and carizo, a bamboo-like plant that grows in
abundance in the Oaxacan countryside.

In 1984, he settled permanently in Seaside, but he sent his father $100 a week.
His father, a baker in San Pablo, used the money to grow his business.

``He created employment for the people in the pueblo. There was a labor
movement, and it lifted my father as well,'' said Morales, noting his father now
has a large concrete home in San Pablo.

Two-way street

In 1990, his father came to visit and helped Morales establish San Pablo Bakery,
a prospering business on Broadway in Seaside.

``We started selling bread out of the house, making $15 to $20 a day,'' said
Morales, who picked strawberries, artichokes and other produce to earn a living
before he opened the bakery.

Morales also contributed money for a clock tower in San Pablo's town center in
1988 and a Caterpillar tractor, which has been used over the years for
construction in the town, including the new city hall.

Former town Mayor Alberto Mijangos, who served from 2002 to 2005, saw a housing
boom that resulted in a record number of requests for drinking water hookups
during his tenure. In 2002, the town opened its first high school.

In 2003, Mijangos visited the South Bay and Seaside to meet with hundreds of San
Pablans. He toured recycling facilities to help start a program back home and
asked people to help build city hall. The largely low-wage farm and service
workers raised $19,000 toward the cause.

Though it was little more than 2 percent of the overall cost, it was significant
seed money, Mijangos said, paying for the initial cement and gravel. Some
returned home to donate their labor for a Oaxacan barn-raising tradition known
as a tequio.

``We're more united than the others,'' Seaside resident Antonio Corres said of
immigrants from San Pablo.

Even with the help, San Pablans still suffer from poverty. Forty-four percent of
residents over age 12 who are in the workforce make less than the national
minimum wage, about $5 a day, according to government statistics. The economic
development hasn't yet been enough to solve the town's biggest problem: Young
men who don't want to stay in school, so they take off for the United States.

``They have the illusion that they're going to earn money and come back with a
nice car,'' Mijangos said. ``They see their countrymen coming back and see that
their standard of living has changed.''

Some immigrants have stopped sending money for public works because they believe
it is lost to Mexico's infamous corruption. ``We don't cooperate anymore,'' said
Ines Arango, owner of El Peregrino restaurant in Seaside, accusing a current
town official of stealing her family's money. ``There's no justice in San
Pablo.''

More professionals

But there are doctors, lawyers and architects in San Pablo where there were none
before. Mijangos, who was born and grew up there, has a degree in agronomic
engineering.

And improvements continue. Near the new city hall, off the newly paved streets,
a state-funded clinic opened in 2004 with facilities for physical and speech
therapy, as well as parenting classes and health programs for overweight
children, a growing problem in Mexico.

San Jose resident Esau Diaz, who has a disabled daughter, raised $4,000 for a
van that he filled with wheelchairs, a ramp donated by the Rotary Club of San
Jose and therapy equipment, and sent them to the San Pablo clinic. Diaz said his
daughter can now get better treatment for her disabilities in San Pablo than she
can here.

While neither the clinic nor the high school was paid for with remittances,
Mijangos said the support of San Pablans abroad still was key.

``There's a lot of moral support as well,'' he said. ``Without them, we would
have had the same advances. But they would have occurred at a much slower
pace.''

Contact Katherine Corcoran at kcorcoran@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5330.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

Pizarro: Chance to check out `Tortilla Curtain'

BYLINE: Sal Pizarro, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 589 words


It's difficult not to have a reaction to T.C. Boyle, author of this year's
Silicon Valley Reads selection, ``The Tortilla Curtain.''

From his wild red hair to his black T-shirts and red sneakers, everything about
his look encourages you to respond to him. His writing is no different.

``The Tortilla Curtain'' is a tale that tackles a complicated subject --
immigration -- through the eyes of two sets of Southern California families in
the early 1990s: a well-to-do, white liberal couple and a barely surviving
Mexican undocumented worker and his young, pregnant wife. As their lives
intersect in humorous and tragic ways, you're often left wondering just who's
side Boyle is on. And you might think that's the reaction he was hoping for.

Some of the reaction he got after the book was published in 1995 wasn't nice. An
upper-middle-class man of Irish descent, Boyle was skewered by some critics for
writing in the voice of Mexican immigrants. But Boyle told me that taking the
perspective of people outside yourself is all part of being a writer.

The 58-year-old author, who lives in the Santa Barbara area and teaches at the
University of Southern California, says racists thought he was taking their side
in the book, while liberals and advocates for immigrants' rights thought he was
waving their banner.

For the next six weeks, you'll have a chance to react to Boyle, and you should
take it. Silicon Valley Reads, a program in its fifth year, kicks off Thursday
with a free 7:30 p.m. event featuring Boyle at the Campbell Heritage Theater.
He'll discuss the book, its characters and themes and sign books after the
event.

If you've read the book -- and if you haven't, head to your local library or
bookstore for a copy -- it will be one of two opportunities to hear Boyle
explain in person his motivations behind the story.

Unlike previous authors hosted by Silicon Valley Reads, Boyle's schedule isn't
allowing him to make appearances at schools, libraries or book clubs throughout
the month. After Thursday's event, he won't return until Feb. 28 for a closing
event at the Mexican Heritage Plaza.

In between, though, there are about 30 opportunities -- all free -- to discuss
the book around the valley. You can check out the schedule of events at
www.silicon valleyreads.orgor look for a list at your nearest public library.

At some of the discussions, Boyle will be a virtual guest, courtesy of a DVD
interview I did with him for Silicon Valley Reads in late October while he was
at a writers retreat in Tomales Bay.

But whether you ask Boyle a question Thursday, discuss the book online at the
Silicon Valley Reads Web site or get into a shouting match with your neighbor,
read ``The Tortilla Curtain'' and react to it. It's what Silicon Valley Reads is
all about.

HONORING DR. KING Just in time for today's Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
remembrances, the Silicon Valley Conference for Community and Justice honored
three high school students Friday for their work in promoting King's legacy
through creative expression in three categories.

The winners were Divya Sundarof Evergreen Valley High School for art; Sandy
Joevelyn Orasaof Mount Pleasant High School for writing; and Tara Shortof Santa
Teresa High School for multimedia.

The three winners, who were among more than 3,500 participants at East Side
Union High School District's 12 schools, received shares of $5,000 at a
reception held at the district offices.

Contact Sal Pizarro at spizarro@mercurynews.com or (408) 627-0940 and read him
online (www.mercextra .com/blogs/pizarro).

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

IMMIGRANTS SEND HOPE

BYLINE: Katherine Corcoran, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words


In the center of this pueblo 22 miles south of the city of Oaxaca sits a
magnificent terra cotta-colored city hall, with grand arches framing the
breezeway and a second-story balcony, a symbol of the intricate ties between the
tiny village and the Bay Area.

Immigrants from that village who now live in Santa Clara and Monterey counties
raised and sent back $19,000 in seed money to build the city hall, along with
$11,000 to restore a 400-year-old statue of St. Paul that sits in the pulpit of
the 17th-century church across the plaza.

As Congress continues to debate its immigration policy, this is a scenario
replicated countless times across the United States -- American cities so
closely linked to towns in Mexico that it's difficult to imagine a wall or
immigration crackdown coming between them. And among dozens of tales about how
immigration has devastated rural communities in Mexico, the story of San Pablo
Huixtepec stands apart. Connections between residents here and places such as
San Jose, Santa Cruz and Seaside -- dating back more than 20 years -- have meant
prosperity in both places.

``It was much poorer,'' Silvia Echevarria said of San Pablo when she and her
husband, Francisco Villa Arango Ortega, left in the mid-1980s to work in the
fields and hotels of Monterey County. ```Little by little, it's gotten better,
very developed. The way people live. They have houses like here, with rooms and
bathrooms and kitchens. Before, no.''

In fact, Echevarria now makes her living running a team of couriers who shuttle
goods the more than 2,000 miles between the South Bay and San Pablo three times
a week. Local families drop off DVD players, computers, sweaters, boots and --
for the recent holiday season -- Christmas lights at her bougainvillea-shrouded,
Seaside bungalow to deliver to loved ones in Mexico.

Echevarria, 41, a legal permanent U.S. resident, herself flies every other week,
returning from San Pablo with delicacies to soothe the homesick: Oaxacan
chocolate, mole, quesillo (cheese), tlayudas (giant crisp tortillas) and
chapulines (grasshoppers), as well as doctor's prescriptions and other personal
items sent from family members to loved ones up north.

``Medicine here is really expensive,'' she said. ``So a doctor here will call a
doctor there, tell him the symptoms and then he sends a prescription that is
much cheaper.''

Her family-run business is one of at least 10 serving Seaside, which has
transformed in the past 20 years from a military town where nearly half the
residents were African-American to a place that is now 30 percent Latino, the
vast majority from San Pablo and surrounding pueblos.

Oaxacan presence

About 60,000 immigrants from the state of Oaxaca live in the South Bay, and
about 1.5 million Oaxacans live in all of the United States, said Beltrán Arenas
Velazco, formerly of the Instituto Oaxaqueño de Atención al Migrante, a state
agency in downtown Oaxaca that assists people who have emigrated.

Recently, violence erupted in Oaxaca's capital city when a teacher's strike grew
into a protest calling for the state governor to resign. Federal troops, sent in
to calm the unrest, have left, and life has generally returned to normal.

Migration from remote states in southern Mexico has been more recent -- since
roughly the 1980s -- compared with Michoacan or Zacatecas, which have lost
people for at least a half century, he said. Oaxaca, Mexico's second-poorest
state after Chiapas, has as many as 80,000 of its residents leave to cross the
border each year.

``It's a question of economics,'' Arenas said, noting that the trend started in
the 1980s when a drought led to a farming crisis. ``They don't want to leave,
they have to. They don't have services, water, electricity, health, education.''

Those immigrants, including many who now live in the South Bay, have a long
tradition of giving back to their towns. Mexico receives about $20 billion in
remittances from workers abroad, the second-largest source of foreign income
next to oil revenues. The social cost of immigration, however, has been
devastated communities, where most men have left and only the very young or very
old remain.

But over the years, an odd thing happened to San Pablo, which has lost about
6,000 people -- the population of the whole town in 1980 -- to immigration. The
number of residents jumped 35 percent to 8,470 by 2000, the most recent census
data available. Rather than a feminization of the population seen in similar
pueblos, there are still nine men in San Pablo for every 10 women.

Many say that's because residents used remittance money not only to support
their families but also toward broader economic development in a sea of dire
poverty.

``Most of the money in most communities has gone to individuals,'' said James
Grieshop, a University of California-Davis faculty member in human and community
development who has studied San Pablo. ``But some communities try to channel it,
and that has happened in San Pablo.''

Antonio ``Alvaro'' Morales, 44, owner of the San Pablo Bakery in Seaside, is one
example. At age 14 he started working seasonally in California, leaving San
Pablo, where he said there was no work. Back then, the streets were unpaved and
the homes were made of mud and carizo, a bamboo-like plant that grows in
abundance in the Oaxacan countryside.

In 1984, he settled permanently in Seaside, but he sent his father $100 a week.
His father, a baker in San Pablo, used the money to grow his business.

``He created employment for the people in the pueblo. There was a labor
movement, and it lifted my father as well,'' said Morales, noting his father now
has a large concrete home in San Pablo.

Two-way street

In 1990, his father came to visit and helped Morales establish San Pablo Bakery,
a prospering business on Broadway in Seaside.

``We started selling bread out of the house, making $15 to $20 a day,'' said
Morales, who picked strawberries, artichokes and other produce to earn a living
before he opened the bakery.

Morales also contributed money for a clock tower in San Pablo's town center in
1988 and a Caterpillar tractor, which has been used over the years for
construction in the town, including the new city hall.

Former town Mayor Alberto Mijangos, who served from 2002 to 2005, saw a housing
boom that resulted in a record number of requests for drinking water hookups
during his tenure. In 2002, the town opened its first high school.

In 2003, Mijangos visited the South Bay and Seaside to meet with hundreds of San
Pablans. He toured recycling facilities to help start a program back home and
asked people to help build city hall. The largely low-wage farm and service
workers raised $19,000 toward the cause.

Though it was little more than 2 percent of the overall cost, it was significant
seed money, Mijangos said, paying for the initial cement and gravel. Some
returned home to donate their labor for a Oaxacan barn-raising tradition known
as a tequio.

``We're more united than the others,'' Seaside resident Antonio Corres said of
immigrants from San Pablo.

Even with the help, San Pablans still suffer from poverty. Forty-four percent of
residents over age 12 who are in the workforce make less than the national
minimum wage, about $5 a day, according to government statistics. The economic
development hasn't yet been enough to solve the town's biggest problem: Young
men who don't want to stay in school, so they take off for the United States.

``They have the illusion that they're going to earn money and come back with a
nice car,'' Mijangos said. ``They see their countrymen coming back and see that
their standard of living has changed.''

Some immigrants have stopped sending money for public works because they believe
it is lost to Mexico's infamous corruption. ``We don't cooperate anymore,'' said
Ines Arango, owner of El Peregrino restaurant in Seaside, accusing a current
town official of stealing her family's money. ``There's no justice in San
Pablo.''

More professionals

But there are doctors, lawyers and architects in San Pablo where there were none
before. Mijangos, who was born and grew up there, has a degree in agronomic
engineering.

And improvements continue. Near the new city hall, off the newly paved streets,
a state-funded clinic opened in 2004 with facilities for physical and speech
therapy, as well as parenting classes and health programs for overweight
children, a growing problem in Mexico.

San Jose resident Esau Diaz, who has a disabled daughter, raised $4,000 for a
van that he filled with wheelchairs, a ramp donated by the Rotary Club of San
Jose and therapy equipment, and sent them to the San Pablo clinic. Diaz said his
daughter can now get better treatment for her disabilities in San Pablo than she
can here.

While neither the clinic nor the high school was paid for with remittances,
Mijangos said the support of San Pablans abroad still was key.

``There's a lot of moral support as well,'' he said. ``Without them, we would
have had the same advances. But they would have occurred at a much slower
pace.''

Contact Katherine Corcoran at kcorcoran@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5330.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 19, 2007 Friday

Freeze hurts citrus workers; aid promised by governor

BYLINE: Brandon Bailey, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 652 words


Thousands of fruit-pickers, packers, truckers and other agricultural workers are
facing months of unemployment because of the billion-dollar cold snap that
destroyed much of California's citrus crop in recent days.

And even though Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and other officials have vowed to
provide emergency assistance for workers and their families, they acknowledged
Thursday that many won't be eligible for cash unemployment benefits because of
their immigration status.

``The weeks and months to come are going to be filled with a lot of human
suffering,'' warned Marc Grossman, a spokesman for the United Farm Workers
union, who said recent trends in agriculture and immigration have led illegal
immigrants to make up a majority of the citrus workforce.

While estimates vary, at least 12,000 workers are likely to be affected. Fresno
County Supervisor Judy Case said she doesn't know how many are undocumented.

``The effects of the freeze are going to be pretty widespread,'' she said. ``The
farmers have been hurt, and so have the pickers and packing house employees.
When they find themselves without jobs, they're still going to have mortgages or
rent to pay.''

Some farms in the Central Valley are already laying off workers.

``All of my sisters-in-law, my mother-in-law and my brother-in-law just got laid
off from the packing sheds,'' ranch hand Valentino Mexicano told the Associated
Press. ``People are just going to be looking for little jobs to survive because
the bills won't wait.''

During a visit to one Fresno-area citrus farm, Schwarzenegger pledged Tuesday
that his administration will provide aid to ``not only help the farmers but also
the workers, because they're also suffering.''

When asked if undocumented workers would get assistance, Schwarzenegger said,
``Absolutely. Everyone will get help.'' He added, ``We are not here collecting
immigration statuses.''

State officials later clarified that unemployment insurance benefits can only be
paid to those who show proof they are eligible to work in the United States,
under federal rules. Those benefits can provide up to $450 a week for 26 weeks.

But they said the state Department of Social Services and other agencies will
work with counties and non-profit groups to assist workers, regardless of their
immigration status, by providing emergency food, shelter, job training and help
with their utility bills. Food stamps also will be available to eligible
families with children, including those of undocumented workers.

Schwarzenegger recently drew some criticism when he unveiled a proposal for
statewide health insurance that would include undocumented families. But the
UFW's Grossman praised the governor for doing what he can to help the citrus
workers.

``He's not to blame'' for the federal rules, Grossman said of the governor,
``but it underscores the need'' for legislation that would allow undocumented
workers to earn legal status. That was an element of the immigration reform bill
passed by the U.S. Senate last year; the bill stalled after opponents argued it
would reward people who broke the law.

Citrus crops provide winter work for many immigrants who work in other
agricultural sectors during the rest of the year, according to Grossman. He said
many workers who used to be seasonal immigrants now stay in the United States
year round, with their families, because it's become more difficult to move back
and forth across the Mexican border.

Officials said the full impact of the freeze won't be known for several weeks,
as work in the citrus orchards and packing plants dries up.

Strawberries and other crops are also affected. And while the impact has been
less severe in coastal areas such as Monterey County, officials there said
hundreds of people could find themselves temporarily out of work because of
damage to artichokes, grapes and other commodities.

Contact Brandon Bailey at bbailey@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5022.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday

PLEA: HELP IRAQIS FLEE;
RESETTLE REFUGEES, IRAQI-AMERICANS IN BAY AREA URGE

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words


Bay Area Iraqi-Americans are weighing in on an international humanitarian call
to allow more Iraqi refugees to enter the United States, as violence in war-torn
Iraq has forced 2 million to flee to neighboring countries.

Bay Area residents who want to bring relatives from Iraq said the lobbying to
expand programs to resettle Iraqi refugees, particularly those who have helped
U.S. military operations, is long needed.

``I'm overwhelmed and delighted,'' said Nathera Maula, a San Jose Realtor who
immigrated from Iraq 43 years ago. ``People there have been suffering, and it
seems like it's way overdue.''

Maula's brother, Amir Hadid, a San Jose physician, called the new effort
``fantastic,'' because it offers hope to many Iraqi-Americans. Hadid said he
wants to bring his nieces here from the horrors of Baghdad.

One brother is now in Jordan with his family; another brother has immigrated to
England so his sons could avoid the draft for Saddam Hussein's army.

``It's a mess,'' Hadid said. ``It's like a curse to be an Iraqi person.''

Like his family, many Iraqis would prefer to stay in their country, Hadid said.
But the war leaves them without a choice.

``It's just they want to have security,'' Hadid said. ``Who wants to die while
you're shopping for bread?''

Since the American invasion of Iraq three years ago, 466 Iraqi refugees have
been resettled in the United States, Ellen Sauerbrey, assistant secretary of
state, told a Senate committee hearing on Iraqi refugees Tuesday.

Last week, international organizations urged the U.S. government and the
European Union to make resettlement of Iraqi refugees a priority because the
continuing flight of Iraqis has made it a ``crisis of historic proportions.''

Resettlement groups like the International Rescue Committee, the U.S. Committee
for Refugees and Immigrants, and the Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County
urged the federal government to allow religious minorities who have become
targets of sectarian violence in the war to immigrate. Those groups also urged
refugee status for those who have relatives in the United States, and Iraqis who
have worked with the U.S. military.

Sauerbrey told legislators that although resettlement of Iraqi refugees is ``a
top priority,'' the federal government has not funded the program. What's more,
many Iraqi refugees who have been waiting for years to be resettled, and to join
relatives in San Jose, are tied up in lengthy security screening.

``It's heartening that there's a level of concern and interest,'' said Bob
Carey, vice president for resettlement with the International Rescue Committee.
IRC in San Francisco resettled hundreds of Iraqi refugees from the Persian Gulf
War who are now scattered across the Bay Area.

``But the question is how that translates into action and quick action,'' Carey
said. ``Speed is critical here. People are at risk now.''

The Bush administration has failed to act promptly to resettle Iraqi refugees,
critics said, because it may suggest that the war in Iraq failed.

``We've not created a channel, a mechanism'' to bring the most vulnerable Iraqi
refugees, said Ellen Dumesnil, division director at Catholic Charities in San
Jose.

But the United States, she said, has capacity to respond to the Iraqi refugee
crisis in the same humanitarian spirit as the resettlement of Vietnamese
refugees in the 1970s and 1980s.

``That's in line with our country's traditions,'' said Vic Zikoor, 60, a San
Jose civil engineer who immigrated from Iraq in 1979.

``I feel very sad that Iraqis, specially the professionals, the brains of the
country, are having to leave a country with lots of resources and potential,''
Zikoor said. ``If you were forced to leave your country and live in China, how
would you feel?''

George Zaia, a contract manufacturer in Milpitas, said he also supports the
effort to resettle refugees. He has cousins in Baghdad.

``They can't go anywhere; they can't do anything,'' Zaia said. ``I'm trying to
bring them over here, but I don't know how.''

Many Iraqi-Americans agree that ending the war and bringing security in Iraq are
paramount, but some said resettling refugees out of terrible conditions in
Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey, where millions of Iraqi refugees have
fled, is a must.

``This isn't just a question of refugees,'' said Emad Yahya, a San Jose
engineer. ``What we need to do is look at why this is happening and are we going
to allow this to continue?

``I hate to sound cold and non-compassionate,'' Yahya said. ``My wife's sister
is sitting in Jordan, and they've applied for refugee status in the United
States.

``It's been five years,'' he said. ``In this situation, you have to put logic
and not just your heart into it.''

The U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, a national non-profit group
based in Washington, D.C., is holding a fundraising event to raise awareness
about Iraqi refugees Jan. 31 at the Rockit Room, 406 Clement St., San Francisco.
Suggested donation is $20. The New York Times contributed to this story.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercury news.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 22, 2007 Monday

Drama of immigration;
PLAY TRACES FAMILY'S DIASPORA FROM 19TH-CENTURY CROATIA TO 1980S JAPAN

BYLINE: Karen D'Souza, Mercury News

SECTION: AE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 659 words


About halfway through ``Ambition Facing West,'' a priest consoles a peasant
woman in what is now Croatia at the turn of the 19th century. He is wise. She is
simple. But both share a terror of what the future will bring their tiny remote
village.

Suddenly, the lights fall and they're gone. The actors playing them have shifted
across time and space. He is now a laid-back Zen Buddhist grad student in Japan.
She is a hard-charging California business executive. It's the '80s. They are
Americans. And neither of them fears anything.

Dan Hiatt and Julia Brothers, two of the best actors the Bay Area has to offer,
accomplish something magical in that sudden transformation. It's not just a
change in costumes and lighting. They alter something in their souls that cuts
to the heart of Anthony Clarvoe's sprawling 1997 play, in its California
premiere at TheatreWorks.

Clarvoe (``Pick Up Ax'') traces the cycles of migration. He reveals the core of
the immigrant experience, the need to better oneself, to make a new life for
one's children. He also reveals that the land of opportunity can be a constantly
shifting place, that one generation's Eden is another's hell. But ``Ambition''
covers so much time and territory that it often overreaches its grasp and
squanders its intensity.

Director Kent Nicholson tries to unclutter the text with a sleek production
marked by a rock garden set against a blue horizon (design by Mikiko Uesugi) and
keenly wrought double-casting. But all the focus and austerity in the staging
don't quite make up for the scattered nature of the play itself.

Clarvoe charts three generations of a single family, from the little Croatian
village in 1910, to a mining town in Wyoming in the '40s, to a Tokyo rock garden
in the Reagan era. Unfortunately, the characters sometimes get lost in all that
time travel and the themes can seem forced into the mouths of one generation or
another. They too often seem like archetypes and not real people. Issues of race
and class are touched upon but never fully probed.

``Ambition'' hits its zenith during the '80s as high-powered management-type
Alma (Brothers) tries to bridge the gap with her video game-addicted son Joey
(Patrick Alparone). She can't stand the Japanese sense of ritual, the silence
and slowness of a tea ceremony. She is more comfortable doing than being. Back
home, her son also thought multi-tasking was like breathing. For him, doing
nothing usually meant playing Super Mario Brothers, listening to his Walkman and
talking on the phone. But once he lands in Japan, he falls for Zen big-time. He
wants to be one with everything and nothing. As he puts it, ``Buddha rocks!''
Clarvoe's ear for the ping of slang makes these scenes swing.

The playwright fares less well with Alma and Joey's ancestors. The earlier legs
of this journey feel less natural. Despite potent performances by Michael Santo
and Lynne Soffer as first-generation immigrants and their all-American offspring
(Anna Bullard), the World War II interludes drag. At points the script sounds
clunky and schematic, more like a history lesson than a work of art.

While you can't help admiring Clarvoe for the scope of his embrace, for trying
to invite so many voices into his immigrant's tale, sometimes less is more. He
stretches his ``Ambition'' far too thin by trying to cover so much terrain.

``Ambition Facing West''By Anthony Clarvoe

Upshot A sprawling immigrant's tale that stretches itself too thin trying to
cover three generations of a family journeying forever west.

Where TheatreWorks, Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts, 500 Castro
St., Mountain View

When 7:30 p.m. Tuesdays, 8 p.m. Wednesdays through Fridays, 2 and 8 p.m.
Saturdays, 2 and 7 p.m. Sundays

Through Feb. 11

Running time 2 hours 25 minutes, one intermission

Tickets $20-$55; (650) 903-6000 or go to www.theatreworks.org

Contact Karen D'Souza at kdsouza@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3772. Read her
theater blog at www.mercextra.com/aei.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 22, 2007 Monday

Drama of immigration;
PLAY TRACES FAMILY'S DIASPORA FROM 19TH-CENTURY CROATIA TO 1980S JAPAN

BYLINE: Karen D'Souza, Mercury News

LENGTH: 659 words


About halfway through ``Ambition Facing West,'' a priest consoles a peasant
woman in what is now Croatia at the turn of the 19th century. He is wise. She is
simple. But both share a terror of what the future will bring their tiny remote
village.

Suddenly, the lights fall and they're gone. The actors playing them have shifted
across time and space. He is now a laid-back Zen Buddhist grad student in Japan.
She is a hard-charging California business executive. It's the '80s. They are
Americans. And neither of them fears anything.

Dan Hiatt and Julia Brothers, two of the best actors the Bay Area has to offer,
accomplish something magical in that sudden transformation. It's not just a
change in costumes and lighting. They alter something in their souls that cuts
to heart of Anthony Clarvoe's sprawling 1997 play, in its California premiere at
TheatreWorks.

Clarvoe (``Pick Up Ax'') traces the cycles of migration. He reveals the core of
the immigrant experience, the need to better oneself, to make a new life for
one's children. He also reveals that the land of opportunity can be a constantly
shifting place, that one generation's Eden is another's hell. But ``Ambition''
covers so much time and territory that it often overreaches its grasp and
squanders its intensity.

Director Kent Nicholson tries to unclutter the text with a sleek production
marked by a rock garden set against a blue horizon (design by Mikiko Uesugi) and
keenly wrought double-casting. But all the focus and austerity in the staging
don't quite make up for the scattered nature of the play itself.

Clarvoe charts three generations of a single family, from the little Croatian
village in 1910, to a mining town in Wyoming in the '40s, to a Tokyo rock garden
in the Reagan era. Unfortunately, the characters sometimes get lost in all that
time travel and the themes can seem forced into the mouths of one generation or
another. They too often seem like archetypes and not real people. Issues of race
and class are touched upon but never fully probed.

``Ambition'' hits its zenith during the '80s as high-powered management-type
Alma (Brothers) tries to bridge the gap with her video game-addicted son Joey
(Patrick Alparone). She can't stand the Japanese sense of ritual, the silence
and slowness of a tea ceremony. She is more comfortable doing than being. Back
home, her son also thought multi-tasking was like breathing. For him, doing
nothing usually meant playing Super Mario Brothers, listening to his Walkman and
talking on the phone. But once he lands in Japan, he falls for Zen big-time. He
wants to be one with everything and nothing. As he puts it, ``Buddha rocks!''
Clarvoe's ear for the ping of slang makes these scenes swing.

The playwright fares less well with Alma and Joey's ancestors. The earlier legs
of this journey feel less natural. Despite potent performances by Michael Santo
and Lynne Soffer as first-generation immigrants and their all-American offspring
(Anna Bullard), the World War II interludes drag. At points the script sounds
clunky and schematic, more like a history lesson than a work of art.

While you can't help admiring Clarvoe for the scope of his embrace, for trying
to invite so many voices into his immigrant's tale, sometimes less is more. He
stretches his ``Ambition'' far too thin by trying to cover so much terrain.

``Ambition Facing West''

By Anthony Clarvoe

Upshot: A sprawling immigrant's tale that stretches itself too thin trying to
cover three generations of a family journeying forever west.

Where: TheatreWorks, Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts, 500 Castro
St., Mountain View

When: 7:30 p.m. Tuesdays, 8 p.m. Wednesdays through Fridays, 2 and 8 p.m.
Saturdays, 2 and 7 p.m. Sundays

Through: Feb. 11

Running time: 2 hours 25 minutes, one intermission

Tickets: $20-$55; (650) 903-6000 or go to www.theatreworks.org

Contact Karen D'Souza at kdsouza@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3772. Read her
theater blog at www.mercextra.com/aei.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 248 words

SACRAMENTO

Immigrant health care backed by 56 percent

Californians strongly approve of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's proposed universal
health-care plan but are much less supportive of providing care for illegal
immigrants -- even if they're children -- according to a statewide poll released
Wednesday.

A Public Policy Institute of California survey found that 71 percent support the
governor's plan. The non-partisan Bay Area-based PPIC found Californians even
more enthusiastic about the aspect of the governor's proposal that guarantees
medical coverage for children in low-income families, with 79 percent of
Californians supporting that idea.

But poll director Mark Baldassare said support for the proposal dropped when
residents were asked about providing coverage regardless of immigration status.

The poll found 56 percent of residents still approve under that scenario, but 40
percent are opposed.

LONG BEACH

Salary hikes for brass anger students, faculty

California State University trustees on Thursday approved 4 percent raises for
28 top-ranked employees. CSU, the nation's largest four-year system, says it
needs to be able to pay competitive salaries to draw top talent.

But faculty, who are stalled in bargaining talks with administrators, and
students, who are looking at a possible 10 percent fee hike, aren't convinced.

``Stop ripping us off,'' Rocio Navarro, a student at Cal Poly-Pomona, told
trustees Wednesday. ``Students should be a priority.''

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday

A costly process to being a citizen;
IMMIGRATION AGENCY PLANS BIG FEE HIKES

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words


The cost of applying for U.S. citizenship will almost double, and the fee for
obtaining a green card will almost triple, under a Bush administration proposal
announced Wednesday. The new fees are expected to raise $1 billion in fresh
revenue for the federal agency in charge of processing millions of various
immigration applications a year -- but may create financial hardships for some
immigrants.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of the Department of
Homeland Security, will use the added funds for technology and to hire more
employees, build better facilities and improve existing ones. USCIS officials
also said the agency intends to provide customer service training to reduce the
application process for immigrants applying to become legal residents or
citizens.

``This is neither capricious nor arbitrary,'' said USCIS Director Emilio
Gonzalez from Washington, D.C. Immigrant advocacy groups around the country
``understand there's a cost to better, faster service,'' he said.

Gonzalez said his agency relies exclusively on fees, and the government
recommendations will help stem the costs of better processing the 4.7 million
annual immigration applications.

By the numbers

Under the proposal, the fee for a citizenship application will be raised from
$330 to $595, an 80 percent increase. Immigrants applying for a green card face
a 178 percent increase, from $325 to $905. The average increase for applications
across the board -- for employment permits, for petitions for family members --
is 86 percent.

The proposal, which is under a required 60-day public comment period before its
scheduled implementation in mid-June, drew immediate criticism from immigrants
and their advocates.

``There's a real mixed message here,'' said Ellen Dumesnil, division director at
Catholic Charities in San Jose, which has a program that assists immigrants with
applications for citizenship and green cards. While government officials have
repeatedly said they encourage immigrants to become citizens to complete their
integration into American society, increasing the fees sends a conflicting
message.

``You're making integration out of reach by virtue of its cost,'' she said.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the San Jose Democrat who is the new chair of the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said ``We might stop it.''

Lofgren said she is likely to hold a congressional hearing on the proposed fee
increases in the next two weeks.

``I want to find out why they need the money,'' she said. ``I understand their
need to update technology. But the fee for naturalization is too high.''

On the other hand, these are ``user fees,'' said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national group that advocates
strict limits on immigration.

``People who are using these services should cover the cost,'' he said.

8 months in making

Gonzalez said the analysis on the new fees, and how they will be spent on
providing better service at the USCIS, was eight months in the making. The
naturalization fee, for example, is higher because it consolidates current fees
that immigrants pay separately each step of the way when they apply.

The last time the agency -- then known as the Immigration and Naturalization
Service -- raised fees was in 1998. The cost of a citizenship application was
$95.

The new fees, he said, will substantially reduce the wait for a green card or
citizenship applications. For example, green card processing time will be
reduced from six months to four months; citizenship will drop to five months
from seven.

Skeptical of agency

But like Lofgren, many immigrants and advocates are skeptical of the agency's
promise to deliver better service for higher fees.

``For me, my worry is that if you don't pass your citizenship interview, all
that money is lost,'' said Maritza Suazo, 36, an immigrant from El Salvador who
works as a psychiatric assistant in a San Jose hospital. On Wednesday, Suazo was
consulting with legal immigration experts at the Center for Employment
Training's Immigration and Citizenship Program to complete her application for
citizenship.

CET has citizenship preparation classes for immigrants. In recent years many
immigrants have gone through the laborious application process and then have
backed out or postponed applying in the end, because they didn't have the money
to pay the fees.

With the fee increases, Suazo said ``I'll have to work a little more so I can
afford it.''

For many working poor and low-income immigrants in the Bay Area and around the
country, the fee increases would be a deterrent to seeking citizenship, said
Larisa Casillas, executive director of Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition, an
umbrella group of immigrant advocacy organizations.

Adel Olvera, CET's immigration program director, offered the notion that USCIS's
Gonzalez is asking immigrants and their advocates to trust him that the fee
increases will result in better service.

``We need assurance that the increased fees will improve service delivery,''
Olvera said, ``because it will dramatically impact the low-income population
that we serve here.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 2, 2007 Friday

Sky-high fees discourage citizenship;
SOCIETY SHOULD SUPPORT IMMIGRATION SERVICES

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 463 words


The numbers are jarring. Instead of $325 to apply for a ``green card,'' the bill
would soar to $905 under a Bush administration proposal. Citizenship application
fees, now $330, would nearly double.

With a national consensus to curb illegal immigration, the government should be
making it easier, not harder, to go the legal route. It makes sense to ask
immigrants to pay more for better service, but it's counterproductive to raise
rates to a level that discourages people from applying.

Fortunately, Rep. Zoe Lofgren is injecting some Silicon Valley wisdom into this
plan. The San Jose Democrat and chair of the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration is calling for a congressional hearing to sort things out.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has an abysmal performance record,
with long waits for rulings and an attitude toward applicants that is less than
customer-friendly. The Bush administration says the fees would bring in $1
billion a year to update software, expand facilities and train workers.

We'll believe the improvements when we see them. But we're more concerned about
an underlying principle.

General taxes on the public once were the way we financed government services.
Today, nobody wants to talk about higher taxes, so we rely more and more on fees
paid by individuals or businesses that deal with government offices. They're the
ones who benefit, the theory goes. The immigration agency today is funded
entirely by fees.

In some cases, fee-for-service government works. As one example, drug companies
are willing to pay the Food and Drug Administration higher fees to get quicker
rulings on new products. On the local level, developers often are willing to pay
higher fees for quick decisions on permits. In these businesses, delay is
costly, so speed is worth some extra expense.

But the fee rationale goes only so far, and the complex issue of immigration
shows why.

Expediting green card and citizenship paperwork isn't just in the interest of
the applicants. It's a goal of society. If we want to discourage illegal border
crossings, legal residency has to be a realistic goal. And if Congress finally
agrees on an overdue program to give longtime, undocumented residents a path to
citizenship, it can't be only for the rich. Saving up $300 for a green card is
hard enough for a struggling parent. But close to $1,000? It might as well be $1
million.

Waves of immigrants have enriched this country like no other. In Silicon Valley,
countless tech start-ups and small businesses list immigrants as their founders.
An orderly system of immigration is in everyone's interest.

If it's clear that the immigration agency will make good use of additional
money, then all taxpayers should share the cost with applicants. Society will
reap the benefits.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 16, 2007 Friday

Reassurances to immigrants fall short;
SAN MATEO COUNTY, REDWOOD CITY DECLINE TO CONDEMN SWEEPS

BYLINE: Michael Manekin and Kelly Pakula, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 755 words


Two weeks after federal immigration officials swept through San Mateo County,
arresting at least seven undocumented immigrants in Redwood City, local
officials have scrambled to put the Latino community at ease, offering
sympathetic ears and impassioned assurances.

However, neither Redwood City nor the county has done what immigration advocates
say would be the strongest possible statement against federal raids: approving a
resolution condemning the arrests.

That kind of resolution, said Sheryl Bergman of the International Institute of
San Francisco, a Bay Area immigration rights group with an office in Redwood
City, would make great strides in easing the fear that has permeated the city's
Latino community.

``It would help make parents safer when they take their children to school, when
they go to the grocery store to buy milk and when they go to their jobs,''
Bergman said.

Complaint over system

Since the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement roundups two weeks ago, a
small chorus of immigration advocates have begun to pressure local officials to
take a public stand against the nation's immigration system -- a system, they
contend, that is punitive and clearly broken.

Rhina Ramos, Latina outreach coordinator of Community Overcoming Relationship
Abuse, lobbied the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors this week for such a
resolution.

A resolution ``will send a strong message to the people that they matter as
residents in this local community,'' Ramos said. ``That sends a message that
we're backing them up.''

The recent ICE operations -- which Bergman claims also picked up two individuals
outside Redwood City, one in East Palo Alto and another in Burlingame -- are
part of a national campaign dubbed ``Operation Return to Sender.'' Launched in
June, the operation has led to some 13,000 arrests nationwide.

Although the sweeps target illegal immigrants with outstanding deportation
orders or criminal records, federal officials often pick up immigrants with
clean records, something that has helped drive immigration advocates' push for
an anti-raid resolution.

A resolution on the Peninsula wouldn't be the Bay Area's first. After an ICE
operation that brought 119 arrests in Concord and Richmond, the Richmond City
Council passed a statement against the sweeps last week. Meanwhile, San
Francisco Supervisor Chris Daly submitted a resolution Wednesday that is
scheduled to be heard at the end of the month.

Community impact

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice declined to comment as to whether a local
resolution would affect the agency's operations, but Larisa Casillas, director
of the Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition, said that such resolutions ``show
federal officials that this is really impacting local communities,'' sending a
clear message that there are communities ``where ICE can't just do what they
want to do.''

Nonetheless, both the county and Redwood City have so far resisted taking a firm
stance against federal immigration officials.

``The fact that they're a federal agency, it causes me to pause very
thoughtfully about what we can do . . . given the fact that we don't have
authority over them,'' said Rose Jacobs Gibson, the president of the county
board of supervisors.

In an effort to bridge the divide, Gibson recently contacted Rep. Anna Eshoo,
D-Palo Alto, who sent a letter Tuesday to Nancy Alcantar, a field office
director for ICE's Detention and Removal Operations. In the letter, Eshoo
expressed concern that the federal sweeps have instilled fear in the community
and have the potential to fray local law enforcement's ties to its residents.
The letter stops short of an outright condemnation.

Redwood City Mayor Barbara Pierce joined the city's police chief last week in a
community meeting that attempted to assure the Latino community that local law
enforcement does not generally work with ICE. But she discarded the idea of an
anti-ICE resolution, on the grounds that it would not represent the view of the
entire community.

On Saturday, for example, a Bay Area chapter of the Minutemen, a controversial
national civilian border group, will lead a rally in support of the raids. The
demonstration is planned for 1 p.m. at El Camino Real and Jefferson Avenue.

Communication, Councilwoman Alicia Aguirre said, is ``an effective response'' to
a situation outside of local hands.

Said Pierce: ``Unless my community tells me to do something differently, then
we're going to deal with what's in our purview.''

Contact Michael Manekin at mmanekin@sanmateocounty times.com or (650) 348-4331.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Should taxpayer ID be enough for a loan?

BYLINE: Kenneth R. Harney, Washington Post

SECTION: RE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 793 words


New legislation on Capitol Hill seeks to curb an increasingly popular mortgage
concept: providing home loans to applicants using their Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number (ITIN), in lieu of a Social Security number.

ITINs are issued by the Internal Revenue Service to assist immigrant workers who
do not qualify for a Social Security number -- but do have taxable income -- to
report their income and pay federal taxes.

Dozens of banks around the country have begun offering home mortgages to
undocumented immigrants using ITINs, but their programs generally have been
low-key and small in volume. Bank of America stirred controversy earlier this
month when it announced a pilot program in Los Angeles to provide credit cards
to resident alien customers who lack Social Security numbers but have ITINs.

Some critics charged that the bank was seeking to profit by helping illegal
immigrants. Bank of America said its program is legal, and may be rolled out
nationwide if the pilot is successful.

Now a bill has been introduced in Congress that would prohibit financial
institutions from providing home mortgages to anyone who lacks a Social Security
number. The bill (H.R. 480), introduced by Rep. John Doolittle, R-Granite Bay,
would amend the Truth in Lending Act to make ITIN mortgage lending illegal.

Doolittle's office released a statement which said in part: ``The government
should not be in the business of creating incentives to encourage illegal
behavior. Nor should companies be permitted to reward those individuals in clear
violation of our laws.''

Proponents of ITIN-based lending to home buyers say Doolittle has it all wrong.
Tim Sandos, president and chief executive of the National Association of
Hispanic Real Estate Professionals, said Doolittle's bill would be ``extremely
disruptive,'' and affect far more people than the illegal immigrants the measure
purports to target.

Sandos estimates there are as many as 7 million to 8 million resident aliens in
the United States who do not have Social Security cards, but are in some phase
of the immigration process leading to citizenship. That process can take years
-- often more than eight years -- and ``meanwhile, these individuals are working
here, earning incomes, paying taxes, contributing to the economy.''

They ``are not illegal,'' said Sandos, ``they are undocumented. The government
knows exactly who they are and where they are.'' Doolittle's bill, he added,
``is the equivalent of trying to drive a tack with a sledgehammer.'' Sandos'
group, which is composed of Latino and non-Latino representatives of banks, real
estate firms, developers, home builders and real estate service providers,
conducted a study which concluded that if mortgage companies made greater use of
ITINs to extend home loans to qualified buyers, $44 billion in new mortgages --
primarily to first-time buyers -- could be originated.

Geoffrey F. Cooper, director of emerging markets for MGIC Investment, a major
private mortgage insurance firm, said lenders in roughly 40 states already are
making mortgages to customers using ITINs. MGIC's role is to provide insurance
against losses to lenders in the event borrowers default or go to foreclosure.

Cooper said his company's program was initiated at the request of community
banks and other local lending institutions that found many of their customers
who lacked Social Security numbers -- but had ITINs for tax purposes -- earned
solid incomes, had stable employment histories and excellent payment histories
on debt obligations.

Under MGIC's program, underwriting standards are strict, with mandatory
documentation of income, assets, residency and other criteria -- stricter
standards, in fact, than many lenders impose on applicants who have Social
Security cards.

Home buyers with ITIN mortgages ``perform like `A' credit borrowers,'' said
Cooper, and they qualify for MGIC's favorable ``A-premium'' insurance rates
because they are so dependable.

Janis Bowdler, senior housing policy analyst for the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group, said the home buyers who use ITIN mortgages
should be seen simply as ``hardworking, taxpaying families who want to
participate in the American dream,'' even if they do not yet have Social
Security numbers because of their immigration status.

Sandos noted that making Social Security numbers mandatory to obtain a mortgage
also could affect the ability of Asian, European, South American and other
foreign investors who simply want to buy a house or condominium in the United
States for periodic visits, but not full-time residency. That, in turn, could
prompt foreign governments to impose restrictions on the ability of U.S.
citizens to buy real estate abroad.

Contact Ken Harney at kenharney@earthlink.net.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Should taxpayer ID be enough for a loan?

BYLINE: Kenneth R. Harney, Washington Post

LENGTH: 793 words


New legislation on Capitol Hill seeks to curb an increasingly popular mortgage
concept: providing home loans to applicants using their Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number (ITIN), in lieu of a Social Security number.

ITINs are issued by the Internal Revenue Service to assist immigrant workers who
do not qualify for a Social Security number -- but do have taxable income -- to
report their income and pay federal taxes.

Dozens of banks around the country have begun offering home mortgages to
undocumented immigrants using ITINs, but their programs generally have been
low-key and small in volume. Bank of America stirred controversy earlier this
month when it announced a pilot program in Los Angeles to provide credit cards
to resident alien customers who lack Social Security numbers but have ITINs.

Some critics charged that the bank was seeking to profit by helping illegal
immigrants. Bank of America said its program is legal, and may be rolled out
nationwide if the pilot is successful.

Now a bill has been introduced in Congress that would prohibit financial
institutions from providing home mortgages to anyone who lacks a Social Security
number. The bill (H.R. 480), introduced by Rep. John Doolittle, R-Granite Bay,
would amend the Truth in Lending Act to make ITIN mortgage lending illegal.

Doolittle's office released a statement which said in part: ``The government
should not be in the business of creating incentives to encourage illegal
behavior. Nor should companies be permitted to reward those individuals in clear
violation of our laws.''

Proponents of ITIN-based lending to home buyers say Doolittle has it all wrong.
Tim Sandos, president and chief executive of the National Association of
Hispanic Real Estate Professionals, said Doolittle's bill would be ``extremely
disruptive,'' and affect far more people than the illegal immigrants the measure
purports to target.

Sandos estimates there are as many as 7 million to 8 million resident aliens in
the United States who do not have Social Security cards, but are in some phase
of the immigration process leading to citizenship. That process can take years
-- often more than eight years -- and ``meanwhile, these individuals are working
here, earning incomes, paying taxes, contributing to the economy.''

They ``are not illegal,'' said Sandos, ``they are undocumented. The government
knows exactly who they are and where they are.'' Doolittle's bill, he added,
``is the equivalent of trying to drive a tack with a sledgehammer.'' Sandos'
group, which is composed of Latino and non-Latino representatives of banks, real
estate firms, developers, home builders and real estate service providers,
conducted a study which concluded that if mortgage companies made greater use of
ITINs to extend home loans to qualified buyers, $44 billion in new mortgages --
primarily to first-time buyers -- could be originated.

Geoffrey F. Cooper, director of emerging markets for MGIC Investment, a major
private mortgage insurance firm, said lenders in roughly 40 states already are
making mortgages to customers using ITINs. MGIC's role is to provide insurance
against losses to lenders in the event borrowers default or go to foreclosure.

Cooper said his company's program was initiated at the request of community
banks and other local lending institutions that found many of their customers
who lacked Social Security numbers -- but had ITINs for tax purposes -- earned
solid incomes, had stable employment histories and excellent payment histories
on debt obligations.

Under MGIC's program, underwriting standards are strict, with mandatory
documentation of income, assets, residency and other criteria -- stricter
standards, in fact, than many lenders impose on applicants who have Social
Security cards.

Home buyers with ITIN mortgages ``perform like `A' credit borrowers,'' said
Cooper, and they qualify for MGIC's favorable ``A-premium'' insurance rates
because they are so dependable.

Janis Bowdler, senior housing policy analyst for the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group, said the home buyers who use ITIN mortgages
should be seen simply as ``hardworking, taxpaying families who want to
participate in the American dream,'' even if they do not yet have Social
Security numbers because of their immigration status.

Sandos noted that making Social Security numbers mandatory to obtain a mortgage
also could affect the ability of Asian, European, South American and other
foreign investors who simply want to buy a house or condominium in the United
States for periodic visits, but not full-time residency. That, in turn, could
prompt foreign governments to impose restrictions on the ability of U.S.
citizens to buy real estate abroad.

Contact Ken Harney at kenharney@earthlink.net.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: `Lost Boy' now citizen concerned about child

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 505 words


Q I have the pleasure of working with a couple of the ``Lost Boys of Sudan.''
Both are interns and are attending college full-time. One of them, Simon,
returned to Africa this past summer and married a girl, named Mary, from his
village. She is pregnant and living in a resettlement camp in Africa with
relatives.

Simon is a naturalized U.S. citizen and wants to help his child obtain U.S.
citizenship when it is born in about four months. But I can't tell whether the
Child Citizenship Act of 2000 rules will allow it.

From what I think I understand, Simon's and Mary's child doesn't automatically
have U.S. citizenship at birth, but he or she can be ``granted'' citizenship
when it comes to the United States if it meets four conditions:

1. Have at least one American citizen parent by birth or naturalization

2. Be under 18 years of age

3. Live in the legal and physical custody of the American citizen parent.

4. Be admitted as an immigrant for lawful permanent residence.

My question is whether the child can be admitted as an immigrant (condition No.
4) so that he can demonstrate legal and physical custody by his parent
(condition No. 3). In other words, is physical custody required before applying
for residence of a child, with the intent of seeking citizenship?

Mike De MarcoSan Jose

A ``The Lost Boys'' of Sudan are a group of extraordinary young men who escaped
one of Africa's worst modern-day civil wars. They were children when they fled
their villages on foot, surviving harrowing journeys across deserts and other
nations and from political persecution. A number of them settled in San Jose.

``Under certain circumstances, an individual born outside of the United States
to at least one U.S. citizen parent acquires U.S. citizenship automatically,''
said Penny Reyes Bonhagen, an immigration attorney with Catholic Charities of
Santa Clara County. ``An individual who is born outside of the U.S. to (a)
non-U.S. citizen parent(s) may derive citizenship, before turning 18, when
his/her parents become citizens.''

Bonhagen said the individual may apply for a U.S. passport by submitting proof
of citizenship and that Simon should report his child's birth immediately to the
nearest U.S. consular office.

The Child Citizenship Act of 2000 applies to the minor children of legal
permanent residents who become U.S. citizens, Bonhagen said.

It does not apply in Simon's case because he is already a U.S. citizen.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday

Study: Immigrants raise wages for some native-born Californians

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 642 words


The influx of immigrants to California raised the wages of some native-born
workers in the state, contrary to common public perception and previous studies
on the subject, according to a report released this afternoon from the Public
Policy Institute of California.

In the report based on analysis of wage and employment data, economist Giovanni
Peri finds that some better-educated workers, those with a least a high school
diploma, saw wage increases ranging from 3 percent to 7 percent between 1990 and
2004.

Rather than compete with native workers, immigrants ``complement'' certain work
sectors, agriculture and construction for example, by helping native workers who
have the language and local networking skills to ascend to better-paying
supervisory and managerial jobs. The influx of cheap labor, the report said,
allows companies in some labor markets to expand jobs in management and
training.

``There are some types of tasks and jobs, that as immigrants come in, they
preferentially take because they're good at those,'' Peri said, ``and that frees
up native workers for the better-paying jobs.''

The real losers among low-skilled workers in California, the report said, are
other immigrants who compete for the same jobs and experienced significant wage
declines. Foreign-born workers suffered an average range of wage decline from 13
percent to 20 percent during the same period.

The report, authored by Peri, associate professor of economics at the University
of California-Davis, is the first to look in detail at the impact of immigrants
on employment and wages of native Californians but it's not likely to settle the
contentious national debate among economists and policy makers about the complex
subject.

There are some who believe that immigrants take away jobs from native workers
and depress wages, while many studies have concluded that in the long term, the
negative impact on wages of a small sector of low-skilled workers who are high
school drop outs is small to negligible.

In the PPIC study, Peri refutes a commonly held assumption that the growth of
the immigrant labor force displaces native workers. Since 1960, the number of
California's foreign-born workers has grown steadily. In 1960, less than one in
10 of all state workers was foreign born. In 2004, the latest data analyzed by
Peri, a full one-third of all of California's work-force is foreign-born.

``It's like a man bites dog story, isn't it?'' said Roy Beck, executive director
of NumbersUSA Educational and Research Foundation in Arlington, Va. The group
conducts research on immigrant labor force, and supports strict limits to legal
immigration.

``It paints a rosy picture,'' a doubtful Beck said. ``It seems surprising.''

Gordon Hanson, director of the Center on Pacific Economies at the University of
San Diego, who has conducted studies on immigration and the U.S. labor force,
said he disagrees with Peri's findings that ``immigrants are just hurting
themselves.''

Hanson cites a 2003 study by Harvard University economist George Borjas that
said low-skilled native workers have been hurt by immigration.

Outside of California, in regions with growing immigrant populations,
researchers have documented the negative impact of the influx of immigrants on
the native labor force, said Steven Camarota, director of research for the
Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C., a national that advocates
for limits to legal immigration.

Hans Johnson, a demographer with PPIC, said he's not surprised by reaction to
Peri's findings because it challenges a common belief that immigrants displace
native workers and lower their wages.

``A lot of people won't believe it,'' Johnson said. ``When we think about this
in terms of U.S. immigration, it should change the nature of the debate.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 9, 2007 Friday

Crowd expected at citizen event;
PUSH TO BEAT INCREASE IN APPLICATION FEES

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 591 words


With the cost of becoming a U.S. citizen set to almost double this summer --
from $330 to $596 -- thousands of legal immigrants are expected to take
advantage of ``Citizenship Day'' Saturday in San Jose and Gilroy, an annual
county-sponsored event that offers free orientation for immigrants qualified to
apply for U.S. citizenship.

In a promotional campaign, immigrant advocacy groups and county officials
delivered a key message: It pays to apply for citizenship now.

``It blew me away when I heard it was going up a lot,'' said Selma Murillo, an
immigrant from Mexico.

Murillo, 27, an office manager for a non-profit organization, said the fee
increase is one reason why she's attending the orientation.

``I feel it's really important to take part in the full electoral process,'' she
said. ``I'm hoping to become a citizen in time for the next elections.''

More than 5,000 people are expected at the multi-lingual event, a half-day of
orientation about the complex and lengthy process of applying for citizenship.
In general, only immigrants who have been permanent residents for at least five
years are qualified to apply for U.S. citizenship.

Volunteer immigration lawyers will provide initial legal orientation. Immigrants
will be able to make appointments for later dates and get referrals for
citizenship preparation and English classes.

Individual orientations will be done in San Jose in English, Amharic, Cambodian,
Cantonese, Tigrinya, Farsi, Hindi, Korean, Lao, Mandarin, Punjabi, Russian,
Spanish, Tagalog, and Vietnamese. In Gilroy, orientations will be conducted in
English and Spanish.

``This is people's last chance before the cost of becoming a citizen becomes too
expensive,'' said Richard Hobbs, director of Santa Clara County's Office of
Human Relations.

Last month, the Citizenship and Immigration Services announced the fee increases
with the average being an 86 percent rise. After a public comment period, fees
are expected to take effect in June.

USCIS officials said new revenues will be used to upgrade equipment and offices
of the agency and hire more staff, to help improve processing times for green
cards and citizenship applications.

``Why are people who are trying to go through the citizenship process being
forced to pay for computer upgrades?'' asked Gloria Nieto, policy director for
Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, one of a number of groups
working on the event.

``There's no guarantee that things are going to get better,'' Nieto said,
echoing a nationwide barrage of criticism about the fee increases. Advocates
note that increases -- particularly the 80 percent jump for citizenship
applications -- will prevent working poor immigrants from applying.

This week, the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate introduced bills that
would re-examine the proposed fee increases.

But advocates like Nieto are advising qualified legal immigrants not to wait.

``We're just trying to make the path to citizenship a little clearer,'' Nieto
said. ``We're talking about reasonable fee increases, nothing that will deter
people from applying for citizenship.''

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED Citizenship and Immigrant Pride Day will be held Saturday,
from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., in two locations: -- Center for Employment Training,
701 Vine St., San Jose. -- Rebekah Children's Services, 290 IOOF Ave., Gilroy.
For additional information and times of orientation in different languages, call
SIREN at 408-543-5451; or Catholic Charities at 408-914-8337.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday

Immigrant Experience:Vietnamese immigrant tries to prove citizenship

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 468 words


Q I was born in a refugee camp in Galang, Indonesia in 1982 and came to the
United States in 1983. My parents, refugees from Vietnam, did not keep my
original birth certificate as they were unaware of its necessity and only have a
copy from the Indonesian Red Cross Hospital.

My parents became United States citizens in 1992 and were told at the time that
their children, me and my brother, could not apply for citizenship at the same
time.

So in 2005, I decided to apply for citizenship myself, completing an N-400 form.
I was declined because I was told that when my parents became citizens, I also
became a citizen. I was told that I had to apply for a certificate of
citizenship, using the N-600 application form. The problem is that the
application requires my birth certificate and my parents' marriage certificate
from Vietnam. My parents said they lost their marriage certificate when they
escaped Vietnam.

What can I do to meet the requirements and finally become a citizen?

Huy NguyenSan Jose

A The information you received when you were declined from applying for
citizenship is correct. When your parents became citizens in 1992, assuming that
you were by then a lawful permanent resident, or had a green card and were still
under 18 years old -- you ``derived'' citizenship from your parents, according
to Mary Dutcher, immigration program director at the Community Legal Services in
East Palo Alto.

``If he is already a citizen, he is not applying to `finally become' a citizen,
but for evidence of that citizenship status,'' Dutcher said.

You can complete an N-600 from the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, apply for a passport from the U.S. Department of State. or do both.
CIS should have a record of your parents' entry to the United States and their
immigration history and some evidence of their marriage.

``So it may be best to begin with the N-600 and request, as part of that
application, that CIS search its own records for evidence of your parents'
marriage,'' Dutcher said.

Citizenship informational workshop: The Sunnyvale-Cupertino Adult and Community
Education will begin citizenship preparation classes beginning March 26 at
Fremont High School.

The classes will be held Monday and Wednesday evenings. For details and
registration, call (408) 522-2703.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190.


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

LENGTH: 732 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Presidential adviser Karl Rove, known as ``George Bush's brain,'' certainly
wasn't using his while in the spotlight at the levity-filled Radio and TV
Correspondents Dinner held recently in Washington.

When asked on stage, after his crowd-pleasing ``rap performance,'' what he
enjoyed doing most at home after work, Rove replied: ``I like to ... tear the
tops off of small animals.''

Psychiatrists have concluded that many sociopaths have a history of torturing
helpless creatures before they eventually graduate to human prey. Hopefully, of
course, Mr. Rove doesn't fit into this very deviant psychological profile, but
what a shocking and insensitive remark for anyone to make let alone a prominent
public figure under the shallow guise of `humor.''

Jan Woods

San Jose

That wasn't Karl Rove dancing; that was Nero fiddling.

Jill Cody

San Jose

The Alvarados' story brought back bad memories to our family because I, too,
faced Aime's predicament. Like her, I was unable to obtain sponsorship from the
person I love the most in the world: my partner. Same-sex couples are excluded
from immigration benefits in the U.S. Many have to choose between breaking up,
leaving the country, or having the foreigner live here undocumented.
Undocumented immigration is caused by a broken and ineffective system that
encourages illegal over legal immigration. The answer is to create a more humane
system that allows families like the Alvarado's and mine to live together with
their loved ones. The STRIVE Act, which proposes more comprehensive immigration
reform, leaves families like mine out. But hope for us still exists in the
little-known Uniting American Families Act. We hope that this Congress will be
more humane and include ALL families as it creates true immigration reform.

Marta Donayre

Sunnyvale

Wake up people! It was not illegal to fire U.S. attorneys. It was not illegal
for the Attorney General to know about it beforehand. This is just another way
Congress is distracting us from the fact that the real issues are not being
addressed. Our ``Representatives'' would far rather spend their time and our
money trying to embarrass the Executive branch than coming to grips with the
problems of health care and immigration. I'm a retired teacher. I get about
$2,500 per month from State Teachers' Retirement. If something doesn't happen
soon, I could be having to pay $900 per month for health care. How about the
rest of you out there? Can you all afford health insurance? How about those of
you who employ people with questionable immigration status. Wouldn't you like to
have that resolved? Let's all take 10 minutes to write to our
``Representatives'' and tell them to get to work on some real issues for a
change.

Caroline Yacoub

Sunnyvale

President Bush did a very nice job of honoring the Tuskegee Airmen. He has also
awakened the American people, so they will know who to blame when he vetoes the
appropriations bill that provides the funding to support the brave men and women
in Iraq. Perhaps his greatest strength is the ability to give an inspirational
speech. Americans are still in awe of the never to be forgotten ``Mission
Accomplished Speech,'' given more than 1,450 days ago.

Frank Crosby

Morgan Hill

Mr. Azevedo (Letters 3/31/07) misses the point. First, it's very difficult for
the new Congress with only a minor majority to fulfill all their promises, but I
believe it will eventually happen. In addition, the GOP is not just going to lay
down without a fight.

Secondly, I don't think any aware citizen thinks that the Justice department did
anything illegal in firing the US Attorneys. As with the Watergate scandal, the
actual break-in was very minor when compared to all the lying and the subsequent
cover-up at high political levels. More and more, as the digging continues, the
hole for the current administration gets both wider and deeper. The ``where
there's smoke'' cliche is showing more and more signs of truth. This is why any
and all questioning going forward should be public and under oath.

Gary Ater

Santa Clara

It is time to ask two awful questions that some Americans have on their minds:
If the United States leaves Iraq, will there be genocide in Iraq? Will the other
countries in the Middle East go to war with each other because of the sectarian
bloodbath in Iraq?

Riley King

Corvallis, Ore.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday

P.A. mother ends immigration fight

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 873 words


Despite an 11th-hour legal appeal, Isabel Aguirre, the Palo Alto mother of four
U.S.-born children, decided to leave Friday on a flight bound for Mexico, ending
the illegal immigrant's long battle to remain in the United States.

Disappointed Palo Alto residents and Bay Area religious leaders fought to keep
the family stateside -- and even contemplated church sanctuary to shield them
from federal immigration authorities. On Friday, attorneys in San Francisco and
Los Angeles pursued last-minute efforts to extend Aguirre's stay so her minor
children could complete the school year.

But in the end, Aguirre rejected all appeals and complied with a 2005
deportation order. After a day filled with anguished decisions, and an anonymous
``scary phone call'' to her home the night before, she chose to take her
children to Mexico instead of giving them up to foster care in the Bay Area.
Federal immigration agents were to escort the family to the plane.

Aguirre and her husband, Pedro Ramirez, a longtime manager at an Albertson's
grocery store in Palo Alto who has been in the United States since 1985, were
arrested Feb. 28 by agents of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Ramirez
was deported the same day and his wife was strapped with an ankle security
monitor and placed under house arrest. She was given until Friday to leave the
country.

``She's just very concerned about complying with the law,'' said Los Angeles
attorney Peter Schey of the Center for Human Rights, a legal and immigrant
advocacy organization. ``She, like many immigrants, share a real fear of
breaking the law.''

Schey said he spoke with Aguirre through an interpreter Friday afternoon and
asked her if she wanted lawyers to pursue an extension, an effort backed by
various religious groups.

``She decided to go back,'' Schey said.

Officials of ICE said the couple were originally ordered deported in 2002 after
an immigration judge ruled they were illegal immigrants. But after a long legal
battle, which the couple said was botched by a lawyer who was eventually
disbarred, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled against them in 2005.

``She and the people in the community have made a point that she didn't get
adequate legal representation,'' said ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice. ``This
immigration case was in litigation for almost a decade, and the court found that
they had no legal basis to be here.''

Aquirre and Ramirez were arrested as part of a national crackdown on illegal
immigrants who have ignored previous deportation orders. An estimated 18,000
have been arrested under ``Operation Return to Sender,'' in which ICE agents
also target immigrants who have criminal convictions.

The agency has also stepped up crackdowns across the nation on employers who
hire illegal immigrants.

The arrests of Aguirre and Ramirez became the rallying cry of immigrant
advocates in the Bay Area, who denounced ICE sweeps they say have caused the
breakup of families made up of legal and illegal immigrants. The couple's four
children -- Pedro Jr., 15; Adrian, 12; Yadira, 10; and Adriana, 6 -- were all
born at Stanford Medical Center and raised in East Palo Alto and Palo Alto. All
of them were attending schools in Palo Alto.

``It's absurd,'' Schey said. ``Four American children are effectively being
forced to leave their own country.''

After her husband was deported and she faced the deportation deadline, Aguirre
was confronted with a dilemma -- leave her children to foster care or bring them
with her to join her husband in Apatzingan, a city southwest of the Michoacan
state capital of Morelia. Once her deportation battle became public, Aguirre not
only had to decide her own fate but took at least one unsettling call Thursday
night.

Schey said the anonymous caller told Aguirre ``she better leave,'' and
characterized it as ``a scary call'' that caused her to worry about her kids.

Aguirre -- through her eldest son, Pedro and family friends -- declined to be
interviewed.

Pedro Ramirez Jr., a freshman at Gunn High School, said he spoke with his father
on Friday morning and told him that the family was preparing to leave.

``I'm just glad we're going to be together as a family again,'' Pedro Jr. said,
standing in the doorway of their living room, strewn with clothes, books and
toys. ``I miss my dad. We'll be with him again.''

Friday morning, two unidentified friends of Aguirre drove her to the ICE office
in San Francisco to get the security bracelet on her ankle removed, ending weeks
of house arrest.

Two hours later, she returned to the pink, one-story rented bungalow in Palo
Alto. After lunch, family friends arrived with suitcases, apparently to help
them pack.

The Rev. Lawrence Goode, pastor of the family's church, St. Francis of Assisi in
East Palo Alto, said the last-minute attempt to get Aguirre to stay was ``to buy
a little time.''

``It wasn't something to defy the law,'' he said. ``It was another way to get
her another hearing with the court, an extension so the kids can finish
school.''

Six years from now, when Pedro Jr. is 21 -- he is a U.S. citizen and carries a
U.S. passport -- he may be able to petition for his parents to return to the Bay
Area, Schey said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 20, 2007 Friday

Free legal help for Mexicans expands

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 531 words


In a first of its kind alliance, the Santa Clara County chapter of an
immigration lawyer's organization is teaming up with the Mexican Consulate in
San Jose to provide free legal consultation to Mexican immigrants from four Bay
Area counties.

The goal, organizers said, is to steer vulnerable immigrants away from
unscrupulous "notarios" or people posing as immigration legal experts, and get
them proper legal help.

Officials of the American Immigration Lawyers Association and Consul General
Bruno Figueroa said the pilot project, scheduled to begin late in May, is the
first in the country. If successful, organizers are hoping the model will be
duplicated in other communities in the country.

"Without a doubt, it's a program that addresses a great need," Figueroa said.

Spanish-speaking volunteer lawyers will give free short consultations twice a
month to immigrants at the consulate on North First Street. After screening,
they will be referred to AILA lawyers or non-profit legal service organizations.

Each month, about 350 Mexicans seek legal help from the consulate for a range of
problems regarding deaths, divorces, child custody and insurance. But many of
them are seeking answers to immigration problems.

The consulate serves four counties - Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, San Benito and
Monterey - where 500,000 to 700,000 Mexican nationals live.

A legal staff of four people field the queries each month and refer most of them
to an informal network of lawyers in the area and non-profit groups that provide
legal help to immigrants.

But the need in the community has always exceeded the consulate's capacity,
Figueroa said, before signing the formal agreement Thursday afternoon with
AILA's county chair, Alisa Thomas, during a news conference and orientation at
the consulate.

"The value of this service is to allow individuals who do have a chance to
straighten their legal status," said Daniel Shanfield, incoming chapter chair of
AILA and the one who proposed the project. "By getting people on the right
track, we can keep them from the pitfalls."

"A program like this can help keep mixed-status families together in the United
States," Shanfield said.

After Thursday's news conference, Shanfield conducted orientation for the dozen
volunteer lawyers who signed up for the program.

"It's a great idea," said Adel Olvera, director of the Immigration and
Citizenship program at the Center for Employment Training in San Jose. "We're
thankful there's this additional support now."

Like the consulate, groups like CET scramble to find free or low-cost legal
advice for the immigrants seeking help with immigration applications.

"It will really help people get some good direction to begin their inquiry at
least," said Karen Seiden, a private immigration attorney in Sunnyvale and an
AILA member who is participating in the project. Seiden is also staff attorney
at CET.

In the past, groups like CET would send a legal representative to the consulate
in San Francisco to do consultations, she said.

"Formalizing this is a good thing," Seiden said. "You'll get a flow of attorneys
and referrals to appropriate agencies."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or(408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 24, 2007 Tuesday

High schoolers harvest the experiences of immigrants

BYLINE: By Mark de la Viña Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 775 words


A dozen Peninsula high schoolers have digitally documented the often-overlooked
personal experiences of immigrants for a multimedia project that gives the
subjects a clear, resonant voice in "Immigration Stories."

Anecdotes about selling a beloved family horse in Mexico to cover the cost of
immigration paperwork or picking avocados or cotton under an unrelenting sun for
15 hours a day at $1.10 an hour are retold with tech flourishes in the form of
readings, video clips, photographs, music, giving the stories an energy
impossible with just a bone-dry patchwork of documentation. Some of the tales
are told in unexpected ways - poetry or essays, for instance - that express
thoughts on the subject. Others shaped the source materials into new narratives.

The students, many of them immigrants or the children of first-generation
Americans themselves, conducted interviews to document the experiences of those
arriving and adapting to their new homeland. In many cases, the students
harvested oral histories from parents, grandparents, neighbors and classmates.

Several short films from the project will be screened at 8 p.m. Wednesday at
Stanford's Memorial Auditorium before a concert by Irvin Mayfield and the New
Orleans Jazz Orchestra. The completed "Immigration Stories," a multimedia,
theatrical piece featuring performance poet and playwright Jerry Quickley, will
premiere at the Pigott Theater at Stanford University in the last week of May.

Jose Betancourt, a 16-year-old junior at East Palo Alto Academy High School,
interviewed a pair of classmates whose families emigrated from Fiji. Though
Betancourt and his parents came to the Bay Area from Mexico, he and his Fijian
classmates have more in common than he imagined, he said.

"This country was founded by English immigrants who came here in the 1700s to
get away from the monarchies," Betancourt said. "I just want people to
understand that we are the next generation of immigrants who come to find a
better living, not take anyone's job."

About 1.1 million people became legal permanent residents in 2005, according to
the Office of Immigration Statistics of the Department of Homeland Security. An
estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants live in the United States.

"Immigration Stories" was created through the education and outreach component
of Stanford Lively Arts, an organization that has brought such artists as
violist Itzhak Perlman and Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater to the Stanford
campus. To craft "Stories," Quickley, a Lively Arts artist in residence, teamed
up with students in a program called College Track, an East Palo Alto non-profit
that prepares high school students for higher education.

Quickley's method is to collect oral histories and distill them into performance
pieces, such as his solo show "Live From the Front," based on interviews he
conducted with Iraqi civilians while reporting from Iraq in 2003.

"Stories" is similarly constructed from transcripts and family photos. Some of
the students might join Quickley in the May performance of "Immigration
Stories," he said.

"All too often, students and young people are not given near the credit that
they deserve for their level of accomplishment and perception and ability in the
world," Quickley said. "The depth to which the students have gone to create and
find some of their own stories shows a maturity and an emotional and spiritual
complexity that many people wouldn't assign to students as young as they are."

Diego Marin, 14, used a weathered photo shot the day his mother's family applied
to emigrate from Mexico as inspiration to write about La Mora, a family
racehorse sold to cover the processing expenses. Though the transaction took
place before Marin was born, he recast the story in a contemporary setting and
incorporated himself into the narrative.

"When I present my story to people, I present a piece of me, a piece of family,"
said Marin, a freshman at East Palo Alto High School. "I let them into my home.
I am opening my door wide so they can come into my life."

Noemi Oseguera, 17, of Notre Dame High School in Belmont learned about the
struggles her immigrant father endured, how he labored with fingers bloodied in
cotton fields, overcame a flirtation with gangs and ultimately ran his own
gardening business.

"Not a lot of people see how hard it is for an immigrant to come into this
country," Oseguera said. "So many people are dying just crossing the border
every day. People need to be informed of what we're going through, even just
living here in East Palo Alto. I hope we can do that with this project."

Contact Mark de la Viña at mdelavina@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5914.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At College Track in East Palo Alto Friday, April 6, 2007, Jerry
Quickley talks with a student. A radio host and performance poet, Quickley and
Rachel Mizenko of Stanford Lively Arts have regularly met with the high
schoolers to help them gather immigrant stories that ultimately will available
to download or hear on a radio broadcast. (Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)
At College Track in East Palo Alto Friday, April 6, 2007, Danielle Abaya, 17, of
Redwood City practices recording a documentary piece about her immigrant father.
Radio host and performance poet Jerry Quickley and Rachel Mizenko of Stanford
Lively Arts have regularly met with the high schoolers to help them gather
immigrant stories that ultimately will available to download or hear on a radio
broadcast. (Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)
At College Track in East Palo Alto Friday, April 6, 2007, Danielle Abaya, 17, of
Redwood City writes a documentary piece about her immigrant father. Radio host
and performance poet Jerry Quickley and Rachel Mizenko of Stanford Lively Arts
have regularly met with the high schoolers to help them gather immigrant stories
that ultimately will available to download or hear on a radio broadcast.
(Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday

De Anza students march on campus

BYLINE: By Cody Kraatz MediaNews

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 228 words


De Anza College students and faculty marched through campus at lunchtime on
Tuesday to protest U.S. policies on the Middle East, immigration and the
environment. The protest was timed to coincide with May Day, which is widely
recognized as a day to honor labor movements.

About 100 students and faculty, many of them skipping classes to attend, joined
the march, which ended in the busy main quad of the campus. Hundreds of students
there watched or listened as they ate lunch and socialized.

"Take a stand. It doesn't have to be a big huge stand, but do something," said
world and environmental history instructor Ben Kline. He said that stopping
global warming would be a good one because it is an urgent problem.

English teacher Karen Chow called for solidarity with Latin American immigrants,
citing recent federal immigration raids in the Bay Area recently.

"They don't want to leave their homes. They don't want to leave their families,"
she said, arguing that U.S.-brokered trade agreements such as NAFTA are
responsible for the poverty that brings Latin Americans to the United States.

The event was organized by the Students for Justice club, the Muslim Student
Association and the college's Office of Community and Civic Engagement, which
provided $200 for drinks and pizza. Some students around the campus reacted will
calls of support while others simply watched.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday

Chung: Reflections on experience of immigrants

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 610 words


As crowds prepared to march the streets on behalf of immigration rights from San
Jose to Washington, D.C., I was with writer William Poy Lee outside the Dana
Street Roastery in Mountain View talking, of all things, about the Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882.

He wouldn't be here if it hadn't been repealed in 1943. Its mere existence - and
the laws it begat - affected nearly three generations of those who hailed from
the same area our ancestors did, the Pearl River Delta in southern China.

"It should have been called the `Anti-Chinese Extinction Act,'" Lee said dryly.

Indeed, in barring Chinese laborers, limiting entry to scholars and merchants,
preventing Chinese from naturalizing, and barring Americans of Chinese ancestry
from bringing their China-born wives here, it sure felt that way. Lee's father,
as an adolescent, had to pass a grueling oral test on Angel Island to prove he
was truly the son of an American citizen before admittance. Had China not been a
U.S. ally in World War II, his mother could not have come here.

Parallels from the past

Lee's family is from Toisan, as is my mother's family, part of a four-district
area - Toisan, Hoiping, Yanping and Sunwui - known as Sze Yap. We share the
internalized cadences of an earthy common dialect, Toisan-wah. It springs from a
hardscrabble area that drove its peasantry abroad to survive and seek
opportunities. Up until 1965, most of Chinese in North America hailed from this
little corner of China, as well as the more prosperous Sam Yap districts.

That's why, for a particular segment of Chinese-Americans, the passion of the
marches - and the venality of the current debates - resonate with an ominous
note from the past.

The Chinese Historical Society of America, where Lee just held a reading of his
first book, is sponsoring "Remembering 1882," a symposium that looks at
immigration policy, on Wednesday in San Francisco in conjunction with the
federal Northern District Court. A traveling exhibit of the same name is on
display now through the end of May, first in the old Federal Building on Golden
Gate Avenue, then in the new one on Seventh Street in San Francisco.

"I firmly believe that what is happening today is similar to what was happening
then," said Bill Ong Hing, a law professor at the University of
California-Davis, a symposium speaker who ticks off the opposition arguments of
undercutting wages, sending money home, and "unwillingness" to assimilate. "My
hope is that we value and put a face on who immigrants are. We think of them as
numbers and commodities rather than people."

Becoming ...

Lee's first book, "The Eighth Promise," puts a human face on one such immigrant,
his mother, Poy Jen. It is a paean and memoir, a tale of becoming American while
never unbecoming Chinese. Of her passing the oral citizenship test, voting all
her life and never again speaking English. Of values and assimilation. On her
terms. Undeniably Toisanese.

Lee became a lawyer, climbed the corporate ladder and plunged into a midlife
crisis. It was his mother's rooted, Toisan values that provided a strength he'd
overlooked.

He is sipping cappuccino when he tells these stories. North Beach being next to
Chinatown, and all. I am quaffing only juice. That's something we Californians
do.

We are undeniably Chinese. We are undeniably of peasant stock from Sze Yap.

And we are undeniably American.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The symposium is 4-6:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Ceremonial Courtroom, 19th floor,
U.S. District Court, 450 Golden Gate Ave. See www.chsa.org for exhibit
information. "The Eighth Promise" is found at www.TheEighthPromise.com

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday

Opinion: Massive deportations would destroy U.S. economy

BYLINE: By Andres Oppenheimer

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 703 words


OK, you anti-immigration isolationist flag-wavers out there, let's assume for a
minute that we do things your way and deny 12 million undocumented workers a
reasonable path to U.S. citizenship. Let me tell you why that would not only be
unfair, but also would affect your own interests.

First, forget the 1968 riots in Los Angeles, or the 1980 violence in Miami's
Liberty City. You would be creating an underclass of alienated aliens like the
Muslim youths who carried out the "French intifada" in the suburbs of Paris in
2005 - only much worse. You would have 12 million second-class citizens - mostly
Latinos - who would not only be disenfranchised from mainstream society, but who
also would be legally barred from aspiring to join it. That would be a recipe
for frustration, anger and rebellion.

Second, closing the doors to citizenship - or demanding a typical family of five
to pay more than $64,000 and wait 25 years before they could apply for
citizenship, as the Coalition for Comprehensive Immigration Reform estimates
would be required under a recently circulated White House immigration proposal -
may discourage future would-be immigrants from moving North, but would not begin
to address the problem of those already here. Few of them would voluntarily
return to their native countries.

Third, massive deportations of hard-working people would not only be morally
questionable, but also socially and economically insane.

There are an estimated 3.1 million children born in the United States whose
parents do not have legal immigration papers, according to the Pew Research
Center. These children are U.S. citizens. Their parents - who came here in hopes
of a better future - would not take them back to a life of poverty in their home
countries. Are you proposing giant government-paid orphanages? Massive and
expensive foster care?

And how would this country pay for deporting the undocumented? According to the
Center for American Progress, deportation would conservatively cost $206 billion
over the next five years. That's more than six times the $34.2 billion
Department of Homeland Security budget for last year.

Fourth, undocumented workers fill about 1.4 million jobs in the construction
industry, 1.2 million jobs in the leisure and hospitality industries, and
hundreds of thousands of jobs in the agriculture industry. If they are deported,
who will take their places?

If there were enough U.S. citizens willing to take up those jobs for higher
wages - the favorite argument of hyperventilating fear-mongers on cable
television - U.S. consumers would have to pay much more for housing, eating out
at a restaurant, or buying food at a supermarket.

Soon, U.S. agricultural firms would move their farms to Mexico and other
countries. The United States would not only be dependent on foreign oil, but
also increasingly dependent on foreign food.

Fifth, deporting the undocumented or putting unrealistic hurdles in the path to
citizenship, as the White House is considering, would create political havoc in
Mexico, and worsen social tensions throughout Latin America.

Deportees returning to their home countries would dramatically drive up
unemployment, and deprive some of the region's poorest communities of the $60
billion a year that Latin Americans living in the United States send home in
family remittances every year. In several countries, that's by far the biggest
source of foreign income.

An unstable Mexico would not only hurt the U.S. economy, but also could make it
much easier for Islamist terrorists to use the U.S. border as a springboard for
terrorist attacks on the United States.

My conclusion: Granted, we need immigration reform. And I have no problem with
plans to demand that immigrants be required to pass a tougher English language
test, or be asked to pay reasonable penalties for having come here without
proper documents.

But closing the door to citizenship, or making it an unrealistically expensive
and long process, would not only hurt the U.S. economy but also would create the
seeds of a Latino intifada at home - and chaos on our borders.

We should do exactly the opposite: reward hard-working, tax-paying people with a
way to fulfill the American dream, the way it has always been.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; State; Local

LENGTH: 228 words


SACRAMENTO

AG won't prosecute

losing 2006 candidate

The state Attorney General's Office said Wednesday it won't file criminal
charges against a former Southern California congressional candidate whose
campaign mailed letters warning immigrants against voting.

Tan Nguyen, a Vietnamese immigrant, was trying to unseat Democratic Rep. Loretta
Sanchez last year when his campaign sent out 14,000 letters to Latino immigrants
claiming they could be deported or jailed for voting.

The controversy erupted just three weeks before the Nov. 2, 2006, election.
Sanchez beat Nguyen, a Republican, by nearly 24 percentage points to earn her
sixth term representing the 47th Congressional District in Orange County.

SANTA ANA

Dubious distinction

for dogs, mail carriers

For a mail carrier looking to escape dog bites, New York City is the place to
go, and California is the place to avoid.

The New York metro area recorded no dog bites of letter carriers last year.

At the other end of the scale, the Santa Ana area led the nation with 96 bitten
carriers, and three of the top five spots for carriers to get bitten were in the
Golden State.

After the New York metro area, next safest were Alaska, Honolulu, and Maine and
Montana in a tie.

For dog-bite danger, following Santa Ana were Houston, Sacramento, Los Angeles
and South Florida.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday

Editorial: Immigration plan offers one way to fulfill youthful dreams

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 359 words


The immigration compromise that senators announced Thursday would encourage
youngsters who were brought to America illegally to graduate from high school
and go on to college or join the military. For a nation facing a critical
shortage of educated workers and a Latino dropout rate approaching 50 percent,
that's enlightened policy.

The Senate deal incorporates the federal Dream Act, which would entitle
undocumented college students to in-state tuition at public colleges and to
federal work-study and college loan programs. Students and soldiers also would
be eligible for temporary work visas and, if they remain in school or fulfill
their military commitment, a spot at the head of the line for a green card.

The arguments for this are fundamental. Children growing up in this country
shouldn't suffer for their parents' decisions, over which they had no control.
And everyone benefits when high school graduates with the ability to succeed in
college get the opportunity to do so.

Since 2001, California has made in-state tuition available to undocumented
immigrants who attended high school here for at least three years. That's been a
help, since the amount is about one-fourth of out-of-state tuition. But college
has remained a dream deferred for many bright immigrant children because they
haven't been eligible for Cal Grants and fee waivers from community colleges.

California's own proposed Dream Act would extend state financial aid to the
undocumented. SB160, sponsored by Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, cleared the
Legislature last year, but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed it under the
short-sighted argument that state aid for these students would cut into tuition
help for others.

Nobody knows how many undocumented immigrants attend state colleges; the
Legislature's best guess is about 390 at UC campuses, 600 at CSU schools and
3,200 at community colleges. The estimated cost to the state in financial aid
would be only about $5.5 million next year.

SB160 will come to a vote in the state Senate in early June. Now that the
federal Dream Act has bipartisan backing in Congress, Schwarzenegger should
support California's counterpart.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 376 words


Diabetes drug study

heightens controversy

A medical study intended to demonstrate the heart safety of a well-known
diabetes treatment seems, instead, to have added to the controversy over the
drug.

Its manufacturer, GlaxoSmithKline, says preliminary results of the clinical
trial provide reassurance that the drug, Avandia, an oral medication for Type 2
diabetes that has been used by 7 million people worldwide, does not raise the
risk of a heart attack or death from cardiovascular disease.

Influential doctors said the data published online Tuesday in a major medical
journal did nothing to ease their concerns about the heart risks. The doctors
raised their concerns in three editorials accompanying the Avandia study in the
New England Journal of Medicine.

Questions about the safety of Avandia and how regulators have dealt with its
risks are to be the subject of a congressional hearing today.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Senate votes on bills

on immigration reform

The Senate defeated a measure Tuesday that would have made it all but impossible
for illegal immigrants to become permanent legal residents under the immigration
bill.

The amendment would have required illegal immigrants to apply for permanent
visas, or "green cards," under the same point-based system the bill would
establish for all future immigrants, a change that would have kept them at the
end of the line of green-card applicants.

Lawmakers also considered two amendments that would reshape the bill's
temporary-worker program.

One measure, which passed, would ensure Americans are recruited for jobs first.
A second that did not come to a vote would eliminate the bill's requirement that
participants in the program leave for a year after every two years of work.

COLORADO

Test confirms patient

unlikely to spread TB

The Atlanta attorney quarantined with a dangerous strain of tuberculosis has a
low chance of spreading the disease, possibly allowing him to leave his
isolation room for a short time, one of his doctors said Tuesday.

A third test of Andrew Speaker's sputum - a mixture of saliva and phlegm -
turned up negative for the presence of TB bacteria, confirming earlier tests at
National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday

Collapse of the immigration bill

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: LOCAL; National; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 100 words


HOW IT WENT DOWN

A 49-48 vote early Thursday approves a potential deal breaker: a Democratic
amendment to end a guest-worker program after five years.

First attempt to end the filibuster - cutting off debate and moving to a vote -
receives 33 of 60 needed votes.

Bill's backers scramble throughout the day to salvage the measure.

Second attempt to end the filibuster, around 9 p.m. EDT, gets 45 votes: 37
Democrats, seven Republicans, one independent. California's senators are split,
with Dianne Feinstein voting "yes" and Barbara Boxer "no." Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid pulls the bill from the floor.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

Editorial: Immigration bill imperfect but essential

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 565 words


As senators decide today whether to limit debate on the omnibus immigration bill
and proceed to a final vote, they need to remember two things.

First, whatever its flaws, this legislation is far better than our current
dysfunctional system. The Senate has already spent far too long fighting over
the bill's provisions. With the 2008 elections looming, continuing the debate at
this point will wipe out any hope of reform for years.

Second, passing S. 1639 now is a crucial step toward reform, but it's not the
last word.

Think of it as the beta version of the New New Immigration Policy. Just as tech
companies distribute rough versions of products to get real-world feedback
during development, the Senate should consider this bill a work in progress.

If senators pass legislation, however imperfect, the House will spend several
months reworking the key provisions. That will offer plenty of opportunity to
smooth out the rough edges. Senators will have another chance to tweak the
details in the conference committee that hammers out differences between the two
chambers. And every member of Congress gets a final vote on the compromise,
which could still be rejected.

It's easy to find reasons to dislike the bill. The point system to allocate
green cards serves neither skilled workers nor family members of immigrants.
Requiring temporary workers to return to their home countries for a year after a
two-year stint in the United States isn't practical. There's still a huge
technical challenge in setting up an accurate system for employers to check the
immigration status of workers without causing needless headaches for thousands
of legal residents.

But the larger benefits are profound. The legislation pours billions of dollars
into border enforcement and holds employers accountable when they hire
undocumented workers. It establishes a program to bring immigrant farm workers
to the United States to fill a yawning labor shortage. It expedites visa
applications that have been stuck in bureaucratic limbo for years, penalizing
people who have followed U.S. laws.

Most important, the bill offers a way for the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in this country to come out of hiding. Legal residency won't be easy,
cheap or fast, but if they persevere, they would be able to stay in the United
States and make even more productive contributions to our economy and
communities.

Californians have a lot of experience with immigration, legal and illegal. Most
residents are convinced that immigration policies need an overhaul, according to
a poll released today by the Public Policy Institute of California.

Nearly three out of four Californians surveyed favor giving illegal immigrants
who have been in the United States for at least two years the chance to stay and
achieve legal status. And about two-thirds support creating a guest-worker
program that would allow foreigners to work here temporarily.

Across the nation as a whole, support for reform is nearly as strong.

If senators allow the immigration bill to die now, election-year politics will
kill any chance of progress until at least 2009. That's two more years of
desperate workers sneaking across porous borders, farm crops going unharvested,
green card backlogs getting bigger, immigrant children denied education
opportunities and technology firms struggling to hire enough qualified workers.

No one will be happy with that.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday

Another setback for Bush

BYLINE: By Ron Hutcheson McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 766 words


WASHINGTON - The Senate's rejection Thursday of President Bush's immigration
plan was the latest in a series of embarrassments that have exposed Bush's
political weakness and shaken his hold on power.

The president slipped out of town for a long weekend in Maine before the Senate
delivered the final blow to his immigration bill, but it wasn't the only setback
that might put a damper on his seaside getaway with Russian President Vladimir
Putin.

In the space of a single short week, Bush was hit with more Republican
defections on Iraq, more bad news from the battlefield, more subpoenas from a
hostile Congress, a new assault on his signature education plan and embarrassing
disclosures about his vice president.

He also found himself in a fight over executive privilege that begs comparisons
to Richard Nixon's legal battles during the Watergate scandal.

"It's the incredible shrinking presidency. He's lost battles in the courts. He's
lost battles in Iraq. He's lost battles on Capitol Hill," said Paul Light, a
professor of public service at New York University.

"His bank account is empty and there's nowhere to go for more. I think his
presidency is essentially over."

Light proposed a headline to sum up the week: "The president loses his legacy."

Bush's plan to give millions of illegal immigrants a chance to come out of the
shadows was the twin pillar of his ambitious second-term agenda. His other big
idea, revamping Social Security, died two years ago with barely a whimper.

The two biggest victories from his first term, tax cuts and the No Child Left
Behind education law, are also at risk. Many of the tax reductions that Bush
championed are set to expire, and he's been unable to convince Congress to make
them permanent.

The education law is up for renewal, and lawmakers from both parties want to
revamp it. Nearly five dozen Republican lawmakers - including Sen. Mel Martinez
of Florida, Bush's former housing secretary - publicly support efforts to let
states ignore some of the law's provisions.

Among those calling for major changes is Eugene Hickok, who helped oversee the
law's enforcement in his former job as Bush's deputy secretary of education.

"I had these second thoughts in my mind the whole time," he told the Washington
Post in an interview published Tuesday.

Bush loyalists say there's plenty of fight left in the president, and plenty of
time for him to use his remaining power. Bush and his advisers have warned
Congress that the president will veto spending bills that he considers
excessive.

Republican lobbyist Charlie Black said a confronta tion over spending next fall
could energize Republicans and help Bush win back conservatives who opposed his
immigration plan. In the Senate, 37 Republicans - including both senators from
Bush's home state of Texas - joined 15 Democrats and one independent in blocking
the immigration plan.

"We're going to have huge fights over spending, which my guess is he can win
because of the veto power," Black said. "If there's a good fight over spending,
they'll be happy."

But with his job-approval rating stuck in the low 30s, Bush might want to avoid
other looming fights.

Criticism on Iraq this week from Sens. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., and George
Voinovich, R-Ohio, highlighted the growing skepticism in Republican ranks toward
Bush's handling of the war, which shows few signs of significant progress amid
sectarian violence. Democrats hope to gain more Republican allies for their
efforts to bring the troops home if the current strategy fails to show results
by September.

"We don't owe the president our unquestioning agreement," Lugar, the top
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in a Senate speech
Monday.

Bush also faces a potentially draining fight over his efforts to avoid
congressional scrutiny. In a move that could provoke a constitutional showdown,
he asserted executive privilege Thursday in rebuffing subpoenas for testimony
and documents related to the firings of U.S. attorneys.

Democrats escalated their demands for more openness after the Washington Post
ran a lengthy four-part series detailing Vice President Dick Cheney's influence
on government policy and penchant for secrecy. Executive privilege - a legal
bulwark intended to protect presidential confidentiality - became a familiar
phrase during the Watergate era as Nixon sought to fend off investigators.

Even if Bush wins the fight on legal grounds, it could take a toll on his
already battered public reputation. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., the chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, accused the president of "Nixonian
stonewalling."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Immigrants better off without American flaws

BYLINE: By Rosa Brooks

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 849 words


"The impact of immigration - legal and illegal - on jobs, schools, health care,
the environment, national security, are all very serious problems," insists Rep.
Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., a man famed for his extreme anti-immigration views. "But
more serious than all of them put together is this threat to the culture. I
believe we are in a clash of civilizations." Tancredo's right about that last
bit. We are in a clash of civilizations - and someday, immigrant culture might
even displace some aspects of American culture.

We'd better hope so.

Americans? We're fat, decadent and getting dumber all the time. Our life
expectancy, which rose for most of the last two centuries, is stalling because
so many of us are obese. While most of us know everything there is to know about
Paris Hilton, we know next to nothing about history, geography, international
politics or the workings of our own government.

In American culture, the Xbox reigns supreme among boys, we market thong
underwear to prepubescent girls and a growing number of adults think a McMansion
with fewer than one bathroom per resident is the height of privation.

Can't compare to early days

Our forebears tamed the West, but today, most of us couldn't tame a paper bag.
If we had to cross the country in covered wagons, we'd be dead well before we
reached the Mississippi.

Now contrast "our" culture with that of recent immigrants. On all too many
measures, immigrants look a whole lot better.

Immigrants exhibit no shortage of pluck. It takes guts to leave your home and
everything you know - even if a green card awaits. And when it comes to illegal
immigrants, just getting here takes astounding courage. Illegal immigrants
endure astonishing privation and risk - just for the chance to improve their lot
by doing the backbreaking work so few native-born Americans have the inclination
to do. While we demand McMansions, they share cramped apartments. We're up to
our ears in consumer debt; they save almost every dollar to send to their
less-well-off relatives.

The younger generation of illegal immigrants is particularly impressive. Each
year, thousands of unaccompanied children cross into the United States without
their parents, many literally walking here from villages in El Salvador and
Guatemala. Could our sheltered and chaperoned children manage such a trip on
their own?

A duty to `work hard'

Immigrants tend to be straight arrows too. A 2002 survey by the non-partisan
group Public Agenda found that an overwhelming majority of immigrants believe
that they have a duty to "work hard and stay off welfare" and "respect people
from different religious and ethnic backgrounds." A Harvard study found that
immigrant students also have more positive attitudes toward education than
U.S.-born young people.

And contrary to widespread perceptions, immigrants are less likely than
non-immigrants to commit crimes. A study in Chicago looking specifically at
Mexican immigrants found that "first-generation immigrants (those born outside
the United States) . . . were 45 percent less likely to commit violence than
were third-generation Americans." Harvard sociology Professor Robert Sampson
suggests that increased immigration may have been a factor in reduced crime
rates in the 1990s.

Another study done in New York City found that immigrants looked pretty good
across the board. Compared with their native-born peers, for instance,
"foreign-born (adolescents) had less asthma, less obesity, fewer school days
missed and less involvement in substance use, sex, delinquency and violence." On
average, immigrants even live three years longer than the rest of us.

No wonder Tancredo and his supporters are terrified of immigrants!

Immigrants put us to shame. They're healthier, stronger, thriftier and braver.
If we can't get them to assimilate, they may well displace us. Thursday's
death-by-filibuster of the immigration reform bill - which ended the prospect of
a path to citizenship for 12 million undocumented workers - might slow the
cultural displacement, but it won't stop it.

Fortunately for us native-born types, most immigrants are willing to overlook
our flaws and assimilate. According to the Public Agenda survey, 80 percent of
immigrants consider the United States "a unique country that stands for
something special in the world," and 87 percent say it's "extremely important"
to "speak and understand English."

Healthier, less violent

But we should pause before we insist that immigrants assimilate. The same
studies that show immigrants are healthier and less violent also suggest that
the inoculating effects of immigrant status wear off over the years. By the time
you get to the grandchildren of immigrants, you can no longer detect much
difference.

In other words: Immigrants beware! Assimilation into American culture may be
hazardous to your health and your values.

As for the rest of us - instead of insisting that immigrants assimilate to our
culture, maybe we should consider assimilating to theirs. It might be the only
way to bring back the values of our ancestors - who were, as everyone knows,
immigrants themselves.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 10, 2007 Tuesday

Fast over, but fight's still on

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News

LENGTH: 494 words


It didn't take long for Alba Cardenas to decide she wanted to take part in the
student fast.

After all, the weeklong demonstration that ended Monday outside San Francisco's
city and county building was organized to help people like her - immigrants
seeking an education.

"I did it for my sister, my cousins," Cardenas said. The 22-year-old San Jose
State University student was among 35 people who took part in the protest, which
began July 2.

Specifically, participants wanted federal lawmakers to adopt the Dream Act, an
immigration bill that would, among other things, allow undocumented students to
attend college and receive financial aid, and would create a pathway toward
citizenship.

Hunger strikers spent much of the last week camped out in front of lawmakers'
offices in five cities across the state before making their way to San
Francisco.

In San Jose, Cardenas, three other students and a junior college trustee fasted
outside U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren's office on North First Street near downtown.

Lofgren, a Dream Act co-sponsor, told the students not to lose faith though a
recent immigration reform bill that included the act didn't gain the necessary
congressional support.

Local fast organizer Francisco Alvarado hopes the issue will be revisited soon,
saying it would open the doors to thousands of children who graduate from high
school each year.

"Most of these students are brought up with the idea that they have to go to
college to better their lives," said Alvarado, a member of the group Student
Advocates for Higher Education at SJSU.

Many times, those opportunities are blocked because undocumented students can't
receive financial aid. After they graduate, they face even bigger hurdles
launching a career because they can't be hired without a Social Security number.

Cardenas is a prime example. She attends college under a state law that allows
undocumented students to pursue public higher education as long as they pay for
it themselves.

She was about 10 years old when her mother brought her and her older sister to
the United States from the Mexican province of Chihuahua.

Cardenas said she quickly learned that success happens to those who work hard,
and she applied that lesson to her schooling. She is working to earn bachelor's
degrees in photography and Spanish.

She pays her own tuition, something she says is increasingly difficult because
she can't legally work in this country. Instead, she accepts stipends for odd
jobs.

This fall, her tuition increases by $200 to $1,900. That amount may not be much
to some, but Cardenas admits it's a lot for someone who is juggling schooling
with supporting herself.

Hours after her fast ended Monday, she said the experience motivated her to
continue pushing for immigration reform while earning her degrees. After that,
she'd like to earn a master's degree in Chicano studies.

"More than anything," she said, "this is for my dream."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aldo Sanchez (20), a student at Evergreen Valley College, along with
other student fasters, demonstrate in support for legalization and for the
passage of the Dream Act in front of Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren's office in San
Jose on July 3, 2007. Students from San Jose State University, Evergreen Valley
College, Escuela Popular Student Club, and Maiz fasted to demonstrate their
support for immigration reform and the DREAM Act.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Googlers applaud GOP presidential candidate Ron Paul

BYLINE: By Mary Anne Ostrom Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Local; National; News; Peninsula; San Jose - Valley;
Communities; Technology; Politics

LENGTH: 732 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 08/07/07)
An article about GOP presidential candidate Ron Paul's visit to Google
incorrectly stated the country from which Vijay Boyapati immigrated. Boyapati, a
Google employee, immigrated from Australia.

Ron Paul, the Texas GOP congressman and long-shot candidate for president,
credits a rabid Internet following with spreading his staunch libertarian and
anti-war message into the mainstream media.

So you might think the unlikely Web phenom, who got an enthusiastic reception
when he spoke Friday to about 250 Google employees, plus 100 sent to an overflow
room, would be the technology industry's best friend.

Not so.

Paul did call the Internet "rather miraculous," as he pitched his free-market,
small-government mantra to the employees, many of whom came in shorts and even
one in bare feet.

"Thank goodness there's the Internet or whatever it is," he said, referring to a
fanatic Web-based network of supporters who are intent on boosting his campaign.

But he did not sanitize his talk for his Net-centric audience.

He said he does not support network neutrality, the concept that
telecommunications companies should be restricted from controlling broadband
access to the detriment of Web companies like Google, nor does he support
tech-friendly immigration reforms in Congress recently. And he doesn't believe
in federal student government loans, which a huge majority of the audience, by a
show of hands, had used to make it through college.

In fact, the blunt-talking, sometimes humorous Paul told the audience at Google,
where former Vice President Al Gore serves as senior adviser, that he thinks
fears of global warming are "overblown." And then he raised the question of why
American business should be subject to more regulation if so much pollution is
coming from China.

"I don't agree with him on everything, especially immigration," said Google
employee Vijay Boyapati, an Indian immigrant who gained citizenship last year.
But Boyapati, wearing a Ron Paul T-shirt, finds Paul so "refreshing" that he
flew from Google's Seattle office just to hear him in person.

Paul, who turns 72 next month, has become a darling of the blogosphere. Friday,
as measured by Technorati, "Ron Paul" was the third-most-searched phrase
appearing on blogs, ahead of "iPhone" and "Harry Potter." Through Internet-based
fundraising, he has managed to raise more than $3 million since the beginning of
the year, most of it in the most recent quarter, and he had more money in the
bank at the end of the June than Republican U.S. Sen. John McCain of Arizona.

The 10-term congressman, who represents the Houston-area, ran for president on
the Libertarian Party ticket in 1988, though he has served in Congress as a
Republican. His fan base only became more energized after an interview last
weekend on ABC when George Stephanopolous, host of "This Week," told Paul he
would bet "every cent" that Paul would not become president.

At Google, Paul reiterated his controversial stance that ongoing American
military presence in the Middle East over decades is responsible for the chaos
in Iraq.

"We are the motivation for the civil war over there," he said. "The American
empire is going to fail. It's in the process of failing."

An adamant opponent of gun control, Paul said, "I think the Second Amendment
might have prevented 9/11." If the hijackers knew the passengers or crew might
be armed, they may have never planned such an attack, he said. And while he
values the work of immigrants coming to the United States, he thinks illegal
immigrants should not be given a special pass to citizenship.

Speaking of illegal immigration, he said, "I don't think you can solve that
problem as long as you have a welfare state."

"We have touched a nerve with a lot of young people," Paul told the audience.

When Google executive Elliot Schrage, who interviewed Paul on Friday, asked
which Googlers had taken out a student loan to go to college, most raised their
hand.

Paul then responded, "Why should people who don't go to college support your
education?"

And then he flashed his candidate side: Could he win their vote back with his
pledge to free them from a Social Security system from which he says they will
never benefit?

Paul is scheduled to appear today at 10 a.m. at a public rally in Mountain
View's Charleston Park.

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5574.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on July 14 in the local section about GOP presidential
candidate Ron Paul's visit to Google incorrectly stated the country from which
Vijay Boyapati immigrated. Boyapati, a Google employee, immigrated from
Australia.

GRAPHIC: Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul visits Google's headquarters
in Mountain View Friday, July 13, 2007. He was interviewed by Elliot Schrage,
Google's vice-president for global communications and public affairs. (Patrick
Tehan/Mercury News)
Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul, right, visits Google's headquarters
in Mountain View Friday, July 13, 2007. He was interviewed by Elliot Schrage,
left, Google's vice-president for global communications and public affairs.
(Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday

Report details deportations of criminals

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 476 words


Thousands of people are deported from the United States each year for minor
crimes under decade-old laws that have made the country one of the toughest on
immigrants, according to a new national report by an immigrant advocacy group.

Criminal deportation has more than doubled since Congress broadened laws and
eliminated consideration for immigrants' connections to this country, according
to a report to be released today by Human Rights Watch.

"Forced Apart: Families Separated and Immigrants Harmed by U.S. Deportation
Laws" specifically looks at the effects the 672,593 criminal deportations from
1997 to 2005 have had on family members.

As many as 1.6 million family members - both American-born and naturalized -
have been affected by the laws, which report author Alison Parker believes
aren't "only cruel in their rigidity, they are senseless."

Parker, a senior researcher for the New York-based human rights and immigrant
advocacy non-profit group, said: "I was surprised by the sheer number of people
who've been deported."

According to the report, the number of criminal deportations grew - 37,724 in
1996 to 90,426 in 2005 - after Congress added 20 crimes to the list of immigrant
offenses.

The list includes bribery, theft, receiving stolen property, passing bad checks,
re-entering the country illegally after a conviction and not appearing before
court to face charges.

Parker found nearly 65 percent of people deported in 2005 were convicted of
non-violent offenses, including crimes such as forgery and check fraud.

She interviewed several family members affected by deportation and they told her
they pleaded with judges who couldn't take their pleas into consideration under
the laws.

Some family members have since had to take on several jobs to make ends meet,
sell their homes and seek psychological counseling as a result of the
separations, she said.

The laws also affect legal permanent residents holding green cards, although
it's unknown exactly how many have been deported because the government hasn't
provided Parker with that number.

Parker is now calling on Congress to revisit the laws and hash out what she
calls "fair hearings," including taking into consideration the type of crime and
connections to the country.

The scope of the report doesn't sit well with several organizations, including
the Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C., that calls
for tighter borders, among other things.

"If you come here illegally and begin a family here, you are aware you're
putting your family in peril," said spokesman Bob Dane. "You can't claim you
didn't know there were risks" to criminal behavior.

The same arguments could be said for anyone convicted of a crime and sent to
prison, where they are also separated from their family members, he said.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 20, 2007 Friday

Unwarranted fears still hijack immigration debate

BYLINE: By Eddie Garcia

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 722 words


In his book about immigration, a prominent American writer and thinker cautioned
that American principles are "endangered by the present state of our current
naturalization laws." Although this cautionary statement is consistent with the
thought of anti-immigrant commentators Lou Dobbs and Pat Buchanan, neither one
can take credit for its authorship.

The author is Samuel F.B. Morse, inventor of Morse Code and staunch supporter of
the anti-immigrant American "Know-Nothing" Party. In 1854, he published
"Imminent Dangers to the Free Institutions of the United States Through Foreign
Immigration," creating fear about the damaging effect immigration would have on
American culture. With continued immigration, he warned, our institutions would
be overrun by foreign influences and cease to exist within a generation. History
would prove him wrong.

Pandering to fear isn't new in our nation's perpetual debate about immigration.
In the 1850s, the "danger" came from Ireland. Today, the "threat" to our way of
life comes from Mexico and points south. Unfortunately, despite the need for
thoughtful public policy discussion on immigration, the U.S. Senate recently
acquiesced to a new generation of fear peddlers and allowed that discussion to
die on the Senate floor. The Senate missed the lesson to be learned from the
false alarm clanged by Morse and the Know-Nothings during the 1850s - primarily
that American culture isn't based on ethnicity and won't easily disappear due to
the introduction of new people into our country.

When one thinks of American culture, a few things come to mind - "The
Star-Spangled Banner," baseball, Fourth of July parades. However, these icons
are merely symbols of our culture. The values espoused by our Founding Fathers
form the basis for true American culture. Thomas Jefferson's eloquent words
explain it best - being American is having the opportunity to "life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness." The freedoms guaranteed by these powerful words
allow our cultural icons to exist.

Despite over 150 years of steady immigration, the culture born from Jefferson's
words is still firmly in place. After fear of Irish immigrants subsided by the
end of the 19th century, new fears arose about the Chinese, Italians, Germans
and Eastern Europeans. In each instance, the "threat" of our nation's cultural
demise faded as soon as the new arrivals inhaled the fresh air of freedom and
opportunity. Within a generation, children of these immigrants sang the national
anthem, watched baseball and celebrated the Fourth of July.

Some argue that today's immigrants (i.e., Mexicans) are somehow different than
their European predecessors. The purveyors of fear tell us that the proximity of
Mexico causes the newly arrived, and their children, to maintain loyalty to
their homeland. And, they warn, the sheer number of new entrants (documented and
undocumented) from the south is overwhelming. These arguments just don't hold
true.

Not a single American political leader of Mexican ancestry - Clinton Cabinet
member Henry Cisneros, presidential hopeful Bill Richardson or Bush Secretary of
Commerce Carlos Gutierrez, to name a few - has proposed the dissolution of the
U.S. Constitution in favor of the Mexican Constitution. Moreover, at the
pinnacle of immigration in 1910, 14 percent of the U.S. population was
foreign-born. According to the most recent census, that number is now 11
percent, including undocumented immigrants.

By raising fears about "amnesty," 21st-century anti-immigrant fear mongers have
hijacked the debate, bringing thoughtful public policy discussions to a grinding
halt. During one of the darkest chapters in U.S. history, President Franklin D.
Roosevelt inspired the nation by exposing fear as a major barrier to progress.
As a nation, we responded to the Great Depression by pushing fear aside.

If we are to develop meaningful public policy on immigration that addresses
labor demands, public resources and family cohesion, we should heed the words of
FDR and ignore the alarmist claims of those who perpetuate fear. We should push
aside unsubstantiated fears of losing American culture because history has
proven that we really have nothing to fear at all.

EDDIE GARCIA is president and co-founder of the Latino Leadership Alliance in
San Jose. He wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 21, 2007 Saturday

Chung: Green-card turnaround restores faith

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 600 words


Tamsen Mitchell never envisioned herself as the type to march in a protest
rally. The 33-year-old is a game company project manager, here on an
employment-based visa, stuck in what seems like the never-ending line for a
green card.

A week later, the British woman was marveling at two things: The U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services reversed itself on a controversial move it
made July 2 - and that she had found herself marching in San Jose in hopes of
bringing about that reversal.

"People like me don't normally protest," she said. "We're . . . the doctors and
programmers and research scientist people."

On Tuesday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced that the
USCIS would accept the applications it rejected July 2, after all. The agency
extended the deadline to Aug. 17. It also allowed the old application fees,
which had been set to more than double from $393 to $1,010 on July 30, to stand.

The move restores credibility in the fairness of a process that had set off a
mad scramble among individuals who had waited for their eligibility to apply for
a permanent residency visa, only to be shut out at the last minute.

The one certain thing

"It is a very bad time to be taking aim at those immigrants who were trying to
follow the law," said Benjamin Johnson, executive director of the American
Immigration Law Foundation. "It raises the question, `You don't like the illegal
ones, and now you don't want the legal ones to apply?' "

Mitchell had submitted her application in late June, but she knew of hundreds
who had to drop everything in an effort that involved family members, companies
and thousands of dollars to meet the July 2 deadline.

When the State Department, through its visa bulletins, signals that it is time
to apply for a green card, it is a singular, special moment, Johnson said.

"It is the light at the end of the tunnel," Johnson said. "It is huge." That is
why the sudden rejection had reverberated from Washington to Silicon Valley.
Frustration caused Mitchell, a member of Immigration Voice, to reach out to
colleagues at Cisco, Sun and Google to join last week's march. In D.C.,
Immigration Voice members organized a novel protest: Thousands of floral
bouquets were sent to USCIS Director Emilio Gonzalez.

Many factors

"I heard people talking about it," Johnson said. "That means something in
Washington."

So did the legal foundation's preparation of a class-action lawsuit. So did U.S.
Rep Zoe Lofgren's letter asking Chertoff to provide detailed documentation of
what led to the sudden cutoff.

Both actions meant the USCIS would have to reveal the internal process by which
they receive and count visas and make decisions, Johnson said. Correcting the
error was a better option.

"To be fair, there were plenty of people in the administration who understood
that the immigrants who are trying to follow the law shouldn't bear the burden
of their mistake - people who recognized this just wasn't fair," he said.

It's hard to appreciate this from the outside. Mitchell's American boyfriend,
after listening to her problems, had a Californian's analogy for her: "It sounds
like going to the DMV, but 10 times worse." Perhaps a hundredfold. "Many of us
have been stuck in this process for 10 years," Mitchell said.

They had high spirits on the march, but Mitchell calls the reversal just a "baby
step" compared to the immigration reform.

"We were very shocked something good came of it," she said. "As a group, we're
under no illusion it was just us who did that; we're just part of the bigger
puzzle."

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 24, 2007 Tuesday

State's shortage of farmworkers calls for fresh ideas for reform

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 766 words


FRESNO - To listen to right-wing talk radio or the fear-mongers on cable TV, you
would think that the only people upset by the unraveling of immigration reform
are open-border liberals or left-leaning Latino activists.

Nope. Farmers and ranchers are as conservative as they come. Yet right about
now, they're angry enough to spit nails.

American agribusiness is fighting off foreign competition from Asia and Latin
America while losing workers to other industries. Someone who grows peaches in
Central California might pay workers about $7 per hour, while construction firms
often pay twice that.

The reason for the disparity is wrapped up in how much people are willing to pay
for what they consume. A lot of Californians won't think twice about forking
over a million dollars for a house, but they'll balk at the price of an apple,
especially when they have the option of going to another store where the apples
are cheaper because they come from China.

And given that California agribusiness generates more than $30 billion annually,
the labor shortage is a concern for everyone in the state - whether they realize
it or not.

Reform would help all

That point is not lost on the community leaders associated with the Kenneth L.
Maddy Institute at California State University-Fresno. The institute, named
after a former state senator who cast a long shadow on local and state politics,
sets out to train new leaders and find creative solutions to public policy
issues.

We need both. So when the institute invited me to my hometown to participate in
a forum on immigration reform, I gladly accepted.

The Central Valley economy hums in the summer months and then suffers a downturn
in winter. It's all tied to the harvest.

A grape grower has a good year, and he buys himself a new pickup truck. The
person who sold it to him then has money to afford private school tuition for
his daughter. Then the school has enough money to add a new wing. Then the
construction company that gets the contract to build it lures away workers from
the farmer who set the whole thing in motion.

Now what is the farmer supposed to do? Think the average American college
student wants to do those jobs? As one of the other forum participants put it:
"Of course no one wants their kids to become farmworkers. Not even farmworkers
want their kids to become farmworkers."

Some farmers in Colorado and Idaho have turned to prison inmates to fill the
void. It's a cute stunt but not a long-term solution.

Ideas don't meet needs

So farm groups pressed Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform. They
were especially interested in the Agricultural Job Opportunities, Benefits and
Security Act of 2006, or AgJobs, which would have created a new guest worker
program and granted legal status to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
who work in agriculture.

Instead, farmers watched Republicans push racist hot buttons over how we
shouldn't have to "press one for English," and how any illegal immigrant who
gets legal status would go on welfare. Then they watched Democrats attack the
guest worker plan in order to pander to organized labor desperate to protect
union members from having to compete with foreign laborers.

Meanwhile, pundits in Washington and New York showed their ignorance. The city
folk suggested farmers use machines to pick crops, but farmers maintain that
could bruise fruits and vegetables, and destroy their profit margin. Try picking
blueberries with a machine - you'll wind up with puree. Do it with strawberries
and, before you know it, you'll have jam.

Then there's the money. Congress' failure to pass immigration reform is
especially galling since many in agriculture have forked over millions in
campaign contributions to officeholders from both parties. And when farmers
asked for one thing in return, they got the runaround. They also got insulted;
the anti-reform lobby painted them as greedy growers hungry for more illegal
immigrants to exploit.

Not true, farmers say. They want a legal workforce, they insist, but Congress
won't even create a tamperproof ID card so employers can be sure their workers
are legal. They say they are running out of options. And they've already run out
of patience.

They admit as many as 90 percent of agricultural workers are illegal immigrants.
But they wonder, just where are the Americans who are supposedly desperate to
have these jobs?

I bet at least some of them are trying different supermarkets, shopping around
for the best price for a piece of fruit.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. (ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com) is a columnist for the San
Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 28, 2007 Saturday

Final push to beat fee hike

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; National; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 633 words


Bay Area non-profit groups that help immigrants file federal paperwork are
turning away scores of last-minute filers seeking to save hundreds of dollars
before a fee increase begins.

Dozens of calls for assistance have poured into non-profit offices the past two
weeks as immigrants scramble to avoid the increases - up to 86 percent - that go
into effect Monday.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will only accept the lower fees
for applications - including those for citizenship, green cards and family
sponsorship - postmarked with today's date.

"We're getting a lot of frantic calls from people," said the Asian Law
Alliance's Jackie Maruhashi. "Unfortunately, the organizations that help people
are at capacity and have had to turn people away."

The increases include a spike from $330 to $595 for citizenship applications;
petitions for family members go from $190 to $355; employment permits rise from
$180 to $340; and fingerprinting costs go from $70 to $80.

Some organizations are now telling immigrants they shouldn't rush through the
paperwork and, while the amount of money they'll spend may be a hardship, it's
not worth making a costly error.

"It's better that they see a counselor and talk to them," said Adel Olvera,
director of immigration and citizenship programs at the Center for Employment
Training.

Since the beginning of the month, said Olvera, her office has helped 150 people
complete their citizenship applications, but turned away 200.

Those clients were referred to other non-profits that ultimately told them they
were backlogged and couldn't help with their applications at the time.

While immigrants could complete the paperwork on their own, Olvera suggests that
immigrants wait until experts can help guide them through the process because
mistakes could result in them losing their application fees.

Other missteps, such as saying they speak English on citizenship applications
that eventually require passing a test in the language, also could push them
back on the list, she said.

The fee increases, which were announced in January and are expected to generate
$1 billion for the government agency, resulted in a flood of applications, said
Immigration Services spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.

In the first four months of the year, the agency's San Francisco office received
more than 34,580 immigration-related applications - nearly 10,000 more than the
amount it received for the same period in 2006.

In May, 5,100 applications were mailed - almost twice the 2,650 mailed in May
2006.

Fu You Liu was one of the citizenship applicants who made the cutoff date,
something that made the 83-year-old from China proud about the prospects, said
her niece, Jeanne Wun.

She immediately began quizzing herself about American politics, even though she
won't know if her application has been accepted for up to three months. It could
take up to a year before she's tested.

"At age 83, to become a citizen is a big deal - the prospects are amazing," said
Wun, who spoke for her aunt, who speaks only Chinese.

Liu immigrated to this country 16 years ago under a family sponsorship visa,
settling in Salinas and quickly becoming a legal permanent resident.

She applied for citizenship a year later, but it was denied after she failed the
English test and was told she'd have to wait 15 years before she could take it
in her native language.

The mother of six grown children - one of whom lives in this country - waited
until now to apply.

She's up on all her politics, reads a Chinese-language paper daily and "is
extremely sharp," Wun said.

If she becomes a citizen, she's considering sponsoring her other children to
immigrate.

"This," Wun said, "is huge for her."

Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 173 words


NORTH CAROLINA

Study: Children at risk

when dad is at war

The stress of having an Army spouse in a combat zone leads to a 60 percent
increase in the rate of maltreatment of children by the spouse left behind,
researchers said Tuesday.

The researchers found that the increased abuse and neglect was overwhelmingly
committed by female spouses. They found no significant increase by male spouses,
according to a study published in the Journal of the American Medical
Association.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Report urges spending

on English instruction

Spending on English instruction must be quadrupled to more than $4 billion a
year for the next six years to make adult immigrants proficient in skills
crucial to the economic future of a country whose population is increasingly
foreign-born, a new national report said.

The non-partisan Migration Policy Institute estimates that an additional $200
million a year is needed to improve legal immigrants' skills. An additional $2.9
billion a year is required for illegal immigrants.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday

Study: Migrants find more discrimination

BYLINE: By Pablo Bachelet McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 521 words


WASHINGTON - Migrants from Mexico and Central America are finding it harder to
get jobs and are living under a dramatically increased sense of siege, according
to a study released Wednesday.

The study, by the Inter-American Development Bank and the Bendixen polling firm,
demonstrates for the first time with hard numbers the impact that the
immigration debate in Washington is having on America's streets.

The study also shows that remittances to Mexico still are growing but much more
slowly. The study's authors attribute this to migrants hunkering down in
communities where the backlash against them is strongest.

In recent years, Mexican migrants have moved deep into the South and Midwest,
places that aren't accustomed to large Latino populations.

"What I have found is both ugly and sad," said Sergio Bendixen, the founder of
the Miami-based Bendixen & Associates. "There are millions of Latin American
immigrants, especially those living in the deep South and the upper Midwest,
whose lives have been made miserable by the anti-immigrant sentiment that is now
so prevalent in so many geographic areas."

Bendixen has been conducting the survey since 2001 for the Inter-American
Development Bank, a multilateral bank that makes loans to Latin American
nations. He told a news conference that the numbers showing that Latinos are
targets of discrimination have never been so stark.

More than one-third of Central Americans and 30 percent of Mexicans said their
biggest problem in the United States was discrimination, compared with
single-digit responses for similar questions in 2004, and 83 percent of Mexicans
and 79 percent of Central Americans said this year that discrimination was
rising.

Eighty-two percent of Mexicans and 84 percent of Central Americans said they
found it more difficult to obtain good-paying jobs than they did a year ago.
Forty-five percent blamed the increased difficulty on problems with
documentation and 21 percent blamed a lack of jobs.

The poll was conducted in June, at the height of the Senate debate on
overhauling immigration laws. A proposal to provide an avenue for many migrants
to legalize their status failed amid a backlash, mostly from conservatives
demanding a crackdown on illegal immigration.

President Bush expressed sympathy Wednesday for the plight of the migrants and
those who seek to employ them.

"I predicted after the comprehensive immigration bill went down to defeat in the
Senate there would be blowback," he said. "And to start with employers, they're
saying, `Where am I going to get my peach pickers in Georgia or my apple pickers
in Washington ... or my chicken pluckers in central Arkansas.' There's a lot of
labor that Americans aren't doing that are being done by people who are here and
want to work hard for a living."

The new findings come as the Department of Homeland Security prepares to
announce a crackdown on workplace violations of immigration laws. The
cornerstone of the tougher enforcement would be a new rule that could lead to
the firings of thousands of illegal workers who are suspected of using phony
Social Security data in their job applications.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 13, 2007 Monday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Mexican-American ad executive seeks to build political
bridge

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 744 words


Mexican-American businessman Lionel Sosa has enjoyed great success, but still
hungers for new challenges. Does he have one now: namely, bringing together two
countries that, while neighbors, sometimes appear worlds apart.

Then again, this man is a first-rate bridge builder. He has helped Fortune 500
companies reach out to Latino consumers and helped Republicans - including
President Bush - connect with Latino voters.

More recently, the 68-year-old co-founded a binational think tank to help bridge
the divide between Mexico and the United States. According to him, MATT.org -
which stands for Mexicans & Americans Thinking Together - has more than 1
million members on both sides of the border.

Sosa is convinced that the key to bringing together the two countries lies with
the 24 million people of Mexican descent who live in the United States.

"We love Mexico, we love the U.S.," he told me recently. "We have our souls in
one place and our hearts in another."

For many members of  MATT.org , which just marked its first anniversary,
immigration is an open wound. The group supports a comprehensive approach to our
broken immigration policy that secures the border while providing illegal
immigrants in the United States - most of whom are Mexican - a path to legal
status. As the recent debate in Congress proved, getting there is easier said
than done. In fact, it became virtually impossible once anti-Mexican sentiment
sidetracked the discussion.

But Sosa is not easily deterred. He has faced long odds before and come out on
top. Sosa virtually created the industry of Hispanic marketing in the early
1980s when he launched Sosa & Associates, a San Antonio-based advertising agency
designed to help some of the largest companies in the world reach Hispanic
consumers. Clients included Coca-Cola, Burger King and Anheuser-Busch. Soon, the
agency was billing more than $100 million annually. Sosa has also worked as a
Hispanic media consultant for six Republican presidential campaigns. In the
1990s, he helped Bush, a fellow Texas businessman with no political experience,
get elected and then re-elected governor.

In addition to working on political campaigns, Sosa has written books, lectured
extensively and served on boards and commissions. In 2005, he was named one of
the 25 most influential Hispanics in America by Time magazine.

And all that from humble beginnings. His father migrated from Mexico as a child
and, with the rest of his family, set up a laundry at home where they washed and
ironed clothes for those who lived in the neighborhood. When his father turned
21, he opened his own laundry. For Sosa, his family's story is an embodiment of
the American Dream - the same thing he wants others to enjoy.

Besides offering illegal immigrants a path to legal status, Sosa also likes the
concept of importing guest workers.

"This country needs them," he said. "Our economy needs them. If we don't get
them, we'll stop growing economically."

What he doesn't like, however, is the idea of making guest workers return to
their home country after two years before being allowed to reapply for the
program.

"It's like taking someone who is starving," he said, "and putting them in a
place where they have three meals a day and they're being productive . . . and
then forcing them to go back. It's cruel."

Nor does Sosa think Americans can solve the immigration problem with cement and
barbed wire.

"Border security is extremely important," he said. "We don't want terrorists
getting through the Mexican border. But it should be addressed with technology
rather than walls, with people rather than walls, and any other way other than
walls."

As for those immigrants who come legally, Sosa also strongly objects to
something else that was part of the immigration debate - a proposal to
restructure the system for admitting newcomers to put greater emphasis on
education and skills rather than family reunification.

"Immigrants have always come into the country with low levels of education,"
Sosa said. "Whether it's the Irish or Italian or Polish, here is the land of
opportunity. It's where people come in at the bottom and build themselves up. To
try to bring in people who have already made it is un-American. When did we ever
do that before and why are we considering it now?" Good question. Seems not
everyone wants a bridge between the United States and Mexico.RUBEN NAVARRETTE
(ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com) is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 474 words


NEBRASKA

Tribes offer immigrants

useless membership

For prices starting at $50, two non-federally recognized Indian tribes are
offering membership to thousands of illegal immigrants, claiming they can
achieve legal status by joining the groups.

But immigration authorities insist becoming a tribe member gives no protection
against being deported. And immigration advocates condemn the practice, saying
it defrauds immigrants of money and gives them false hope.

In Nebraska, some people reported paying up to $1,200 to join the Kaweah Indian
Nation, which became the target of a federal investigation after complaints
about the tribe arose in at least five states.

A Florida man has made similar sales pitches to immigrants on behalf of a North
Dakota-based tribe.

John Dossett, a lawyer for the Washington-based National Congress of American
Indians, called the group "just a total sham" and compared its membership offer
to spam e-mail solicitations.

Angel Freytez of the Nebraska Mexican-American Commission said advocates have
fielded complaints about the group from immigrants in Kansas, California,
Tennessee, Texas and Oklahoma.

NEW JERSEY

Toys R Us removes bibs

with vinyl, offers refund

Toys R Us on Friday said it was removing all vinyl baby bibs from its Toys R Us
and Babies R Us stores as a precaution after two bibs made in China for one
supplier showed lead levels that exceeded Toys R Us standards.

Toys R Us, which operates over 1,500 stores, said the result came in testing
this month of bibs supplied by Hamco and marketed under the Koala Baby,
Especially for Baby and Disney Baby labels.

Vinyl bibs made by other companies have been temporarily removed to avoid any
confusion among customers and allow further testing, New Jersey-based Toys R Us
said.

Toys R Us, the nation's second-largest toy seller after Wal-Mart Stores, said
customers can return any vinyl bib purchased from a Toys R Us or Babies R Us
store for a full refund. Information is available at (800) 869-7787.

IOWA

Iowa agrees to pay

six stutterers $925,000

The state of Iowa has agreed to pay $925,000 to unwitting subjects of an
infamous 1930s stuttering experiment - orphans who were badgered and belittled
as children by University of Iowa researchers trying to induce speech
impediments.

Johnson County District Court Judge Denver Dillard issued an order approving the
settlement Friday; it still must be ratified by the State Appeal Board.

The six plaintiffs, who said the experiment left lifelong psychological and
emotional scars, had originally sought $13.5 million.

The university kept the experiment and its methods from the former subjects for
decades. It was not until 2001 when the Mercury News published an investigation
about the study that the former subjects learn about the experiment's true
purpose.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday

Remember Gingrich? His views are back

BYLINE: By Tom Teepen

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 482 words


It's beginning to look as though the steamroller will be the Republicans'
vehicle of choice for riding back to power. The party's would-be nominees are
trying to outbid one another in which, as president, would flatten the most
illegal immigrants.

The new Neanderthal who is using moderate Mitt Romney's name is, for instance,
damning former Mayor Rudy Giuliani's New York as a "sanctuary city." Giuliani,
it seems, failed to order police to check the documentation of anyone they dealt
with who had an accent and didn't reopen Ellis Island, this time as a
deportation factory.

Immigration is a legitimate enough issue. We need to get better command of our
borders. Employers can't be indulged forever as winking accomplices. But any fix
also has to include a way to supply labor not otherwise at hand. And, we're not
about to run 12 million folks into the seas.

But anti-immigrant hysterics killed any hope of comprehensive reform earlier
this year, leaving the matter to the demagogues who, despite having already
having carried the day, are still having at it with a literal vengeance.

So here, of course, is Newt Gingrich, still another time. Perhaps weary of the
sinecured tedium of conservative think tanks and the gilded obscurity that goes
with that, Gingrich is beginning to sound like his old nasty self. Could he
really be thinking of jousting anew in the electoral lists, as he has hinted?

His modish enthusiasm against illegal immigrants is not a sure sign. Gingrich
just likes to talk dirty and it doesn't take the adrenaline of coming combat to
get him going.

In a piece for Human Events, Gingrich is using the appalling execution-style
murder of three college students in Newark, N.J., allegedly by Hispanic illegal
immigrants, as an indignation of convenience. This "war at home," he has
declared, is "even more deadly than the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan."

Really? In Iraq alone, we've lost more than 3,500 and have seen some 20,000
cruelly wounded. The Iraqis have lost scores of thousands. Wow. If undocumented
Hispanics have outdone that here, that's some impressive slaughter from people
who mostly are busy building retaining walls, busing tables and shaping up
tousled hotel rooms.

Gingrich's political celebrity has waned from the high old days when he was
Speaker of the House, shutting down the government with a snap of his fingers
and impeaching President Clinton for doing what he himself was doing, too, at
the same time - messin' around on the side.

It is difficult to see even a Republican electorate uneasy with its declared
candidates suckering for Gingrich again. But in his rising demonization of
undocumented Hispanic immigrants as a murderous horde, Gingrich shows he hasn't
lost his knack for further envenoming the already poisonous, and as he looks
around the active Republican field, he can take pride in seeing that he has
taught his party's children well.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday

Now playing in immigration politics, the 'reverse brain drain'

BYLINE: By Scott Duke Harris Mercury News

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Columnists; Business

LENGTH: 789 words


"Brain drain," 21st century style: Time was that "brain drain" described how the
best and brightest in developing nations found their way to America, hurting
their homeland's intellectual clout. Now a "reverse brain drain" threatens U.S.
competitiveness , a new study says.

Are America's top scientists and innovators flocking overseas? Hardly.
Researchers from Harvard, Duke and New York University have found that foreign
nationals make significant contributions to the patents held by major U.S.
companies. Yet the tight cap on permanent visas may force entrepreneurs back
home to create rival companies in China, India and elsewhere. To avoid the
possibility of a "reverse brain drain," they urged immigration reform to allow
skilled immigrants to stay, thus protecting U.S. competitive advantage.

The report should be music to the ears of Silicon Valley executives, who have
lobbied to lift restrictions on H-1B visas and argue that foreign scientists and
engineers who earn advanced degrees should get an automatic visa.

Day-traders, we hardly knew ye: Remember when E-Trade -- born, re-christened and
IPO-ed in Silicon Valley -- was practically synonymous with the rise of the
dot-com mania and the day traders who loved it?

Now the online broker is an uptown Manhattan-based financial firm in merger
talks with rival Ameritrade . A merger of E-Trade, with 4.7 million brokerage
and banking accounts, and Omaha-based Ameritrade, with 6.3 million, would create
a firm that supplants San Francisco-based Charles Schwab's 6.9-million accounts
as the online leader. Schwab's stock also ticked upward amid speculation that
consolidation would allow firms to raise fees.

E-Trade was founded as Trade Plus in Palo Alto in 1982, and changed its name in
1992 in anticipation of the Internet revolution. The following year it debuted
on CompuServe as an online trading service. In August 1996, E-Trade went public
itself. In late 2003, having survived the dotcom crash, it announced its move to
New York, the heart of the financial services industry.

Today, all that's left of E-Trade in Silicon Valley is a small retail office at
124 University Ave. in Palo Alto, as well as an office in San Francisco. An
employee in the Palo Alto shop declined comment. In a statement, the company
declined to discuss the specific matter at hand, but suggested that for
investors, mergers can be a beautiful thing.

Subprimetime news: Wall Street took a day off the subprime mortgage mess today,
with the Dow Jones, Nasdaq and S&P 500 each gaining more than 1 percent . But
down in the subprime trenches, it's gone from ugly to uglier. Amid rising
foreclosures, more subprime lenders declared bankruptcy today, and the
Associated Press reported that 37,000 people have lost jobs in the industry .

Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) called on regulators too help certain homeowners
struggling to make mortgage payments. In a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry
Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, he sought their support for a
plan in Congress to provide $100 million to nonprofit housing groups to help
troubled subprime borrowers - those with blemished credit histories - to
refinance their homes to avert foreclosure.

Schumer said the $100 million, which would be contained in a Senate
appropriations package, may not be sufficient. He called on the Bush
administration to "come up with quick additional financing," and called upon
policymakers to "use your leverage over financial institutions" to help
borrowers who need "loan modifications."

A test for Google's Midas touch: "It has been Google's $1.65 billion question,"
writes the Mercury News' Elise Ackerman. "How can it convert YouTube's whopping
popularity into ad dollars without turning off the site's enthusiastic users?"

Now Google thinks it has the answer, offering semi-transparent ads that appear
as strips across the bottom of videos . The new type of ad was officially
announced Tuesday, after having been tested on the site. Users can click on the
ads, which pauses the video and launches the commercial. Or they can ignore the
ad, which will disappear in 10 seconds.

So far, from five to 10 times as many people are checking out the in-video ads
compared with the number who view regular display ads, said Eileen Naughton,
Google's director of media platforms said. The new strategy helps address fears
about how brands might be featured on the free-wheeling Web site. "Advertisers,"
Ackerman writes, "were wary of where their ads showed up amid YouTube's mix of
quirky, fascinating, bizarre and plain gross videos."

Check in weekday afternoons for the 60-Second Business Break, a summary of news
from Mercury News staff writers, the Associated Press, Bloomberg News and other
wire services.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday

Many green card seekers wait seven years or more

BYLINE: By John Boudreau Mercury News

SECTION: SCIENCE AND TECH; High-Tech; Business; Technology

LENGTH: 754 words


For more than 1 million immigrant professionals and their families, applying for
green cards is the bureaucratic equivalent of an interminable phone tree: Please
hold and hold and hold, according to a new study to be released today.

The backlog can be seven or more years, a frustrating experience that could
eventually lead to a "reverse brain drain" as engineers, researchers and doctors
give up and return to their home countries, the report's authors said. However,
they do not provide data that backs their suspicions.

As of Sept. 30, 2006, there were more than 500,000 workers, and another 555,000
family members, waiting for green cards, according to the report, a third in a
series under the title "America's New Immigrant Entrepreneurs." It was prepared
by researchers at Duke, New York and Harvard universities.

The study is part of ongoing research that looks at the importance of immigrant
entrepreneurs to the U.S. economy. In addition to immigration backlog estimates,
the report reveals that foreign-national inventors file large numbers of patents
from the United States.

New York University sociologist Guillermina Jasso culled reports from the U.S.
Department of Labor and the Citizenship and Immigration Services to come up with
her estimate of the backlog of 1 million highly skilled immigrants and their
family members awaiting permanent resident status in the United States.

Every year, the United States grants green cards to about 120,000 of these
applicants. So even those who have cleared bureaucratic hurdles still must wait
as long as seven to 10 years, she said.

One reason for the long wait is federal law limits the number of visas issued to
immigrants from any one of the major sending countries to just 7 percent of the
total employment-based visas available every year. So immigrants from China,
India, Mexico and the Philippines who populate the American workforce could end
up waiting much longer than those from, say, Iceland.

There is no single federal agency that compiles backlog numbers, Jasso said. "We
are using the best available data to try to come up with a number," she said.

Report co-author Vivek Wadhwa said the research is designed to spotlight highly
skilled immigrant workers whose plights have been overshadowed by the debate in
Washington about illegal immigrants.

Earlier this year, Wadhwa reported that 52 percent of Silicon Valley start-ups
had at least one immigrant as a key founder.

The latest report reveals that foreign nationals living in the United States
were named as inventors or co-inventors in 25 percent of patent applications
filed from the United States in 2006, and they accounted for 36 percent of the
patent applications from California.

Foreign-national innovators also played a major role in international patent
applications filed by numerous large U.S. companies. In 2006, they contributed
to 72 percent of Qualcomm's international patent applications, 60 percent of
those filed by Cisco Systems, 58 percent for Intel and 38 percent for
Hewlett-Packard. They also represented 41 percent of the patent applications
filed by the U.S. government.

The arduous green-card application process could trigger a wave of immigrant
professionals returning to their home countries, Wadhwa said.

Immigrants awaiting green cards can find themselves in career limbo for many
years. If they change job titles, even within their sponsoring companies, they
must begin the green card application process again, said Wadhwa, who is
executive-in-residence at the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke.

"These guys can't go anywhere," he said. "You can't go from being a programmer
to a project manager because that's a different position.

"The difference between the skilled workers and the unskilled workers is, the
unskilled workers are in desperate situations. They are not going back," Wadhwa
said. Indian and Chinese engineers, on the other hand, can return home and find
themselves in great demand, he said.

At the moment, though, there is no research that shows a vast exodus of highly
skilled immigrants, Jasso said.

"There is no question that if someone faces a seven-year wait, they may become
discouraged and go elsewhere," she said. "But we just don't know. Even if
someone leaves, it does not mean they leave forever. Immigrants have
demonstrated they want to go where their skills and knowledge will be put to the
best use."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To read the report, go to www.globalizationresearch.com .

Contact John Boudreau at jboudreau@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3496.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday

Pizarro: New museum details Vietnamese journey

BYLINE: By Sal Pizarro Mercury News

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Columnists; Local; News

LENGTH: 544 words


A new museum is opening Saturday at San Jose's History Park, devoted to the
thousands of Vietnamese immigrants who fled their country after the Vietnam War
and resettled in the Santa Clara Valley.

A coalition led by Loc Vu, executive director of San Jose's Immigrant
Resettlement and Cultural Center, has worked for the past year to bring the
project to fruition. To display it, the group has overseen a $200,000 renovation
of the park's Greenwald House.

The permanent exhibit, dubbed "The Museum of the Boat People," includes art
(some commissioned and some created by volunteers) and memorabilia collected
over the past 25 years. Part of the exhibit is a replica of an old fishing boat
similar to those many refugees used to make the perilous ocean escape from
Communist Vietnam.

Some people might argue that a cultural museum of this sort has little to do
with the history of San Jose. That's a short-sighted view that discounts the
enormous positive impact the Vietnamese community has had on the region,
including the election in 2005 of San Jose's first Vietnamese-American city
council member, Madison Nguyen.

It should provide a fascinating look into the life and culture of that
community, whose future is definitely entwined with Silicon Valley's.

The museum will be dedicated Saturday at a 10 a.m. ceremony at History Park,
1650 Senter Road.

A FAMILY EXAMPLE: Each year, the Hispanic Foundation of Silicon Valley honors a
family that has shown a deep commitment to their community, especially through
volunteer service.

This year's recipients of the La Familia Award are Stanford University professor
Al Camarillo, his wife Susan and their three adult children.

The Camarillos were nominated for their work with Shelter Network, a non-profit
that provides housing and support services to the homeless on the Peninsula.

Al Camarillo serves on the group's board and helped lead a program that
encourages families to volunteer alongside those living at the shelter. Susan
Camarillo, who is a middle school counselor in Hillsborough, is a member of the
support committee for Shelter Network's Haven Family House in Menlo Park. She
helps coordinate shelter events and prepare holiday food baskets there.

The family will be honored at the 18th annual Hispanic Charity Ball on Oct. 13
at the Fairmont Hotel in San Jose. Go to www.hfsv.org for more details on the
event.

GRAND NOTION: There's still time to figure out how you would change your
community with $1,000. Bay Area credit union Tech CU is running a "Community
Change Project" centered around a contest featured on its blog. (Go to
www.techcublog.com and click on "What's Happening.")

Until Aug. 31, people can submit their ideas for a project aimed at creating
social or environmental change in the Bay Area. Summaries of all the submissions
will be posted on the blog, where visitors can comment and vote on them through
Sept. 7. Tech CU will announce the winning project Sept. 19 and sponsor it with
a $1,000 cash grant.

Sure, it's good publicity for the credit union. But if it helps out someone's
community, does it matter?

Sal Pizarro writes about Silicon Valley on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. Contact
him at spizarro@mercurynews.com or (408) 627-0940 and read him online
(http://blogs.mercurynews.com/pizarro).

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 24, 2007 Friday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 632 words


UTAH

Kennedy investigates

mine owner's practices

Even as crews began a last effort Thursday to find six trapped miners, lawmakers
in Washington launched separate reviews of whether the mining that preceded the
thunderous cave-in was too aggressive.

As a drill bored a sixth hole into the side of a mountain, Sen. Edward Kennedy,
chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, demanded
documents from the Labor Department about the Crandall Canyon Mine and its
operators.

The six miners have been trapped since Aug. 6, and searchers have found no sign
they survived. Three other miners were killed and six more injured last week
when the shifting mountain crumbled around them as they tunneled toward the
missing men. Tunneling has not resumed.

Kennedy wants to review several petitions the mine's owner made to the Mine
Safety and Health Administration for changes in his mining plans at Crandall
Canyon, among other documents.

The Senate Appropriations subcommittee that oversees labor issues announced
plans for a hearing on the mine collapse when Congress returns from recess on
Sept. 5.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Immigration raids

to go on during census

In contrast to the months before and after the 2000 census was conducted,
federal officials say they will not suspend raids on illegal immigrants during
the population count in 2010.

"We would not even consider scaling back our efforts," said Pat A. Reilly, a
spokeswoman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. The census
counts all residents, legal and illegal.

This month, Preston Jay Waite, the Census Bureau's deputy director, cautioned
that raids during the population count would further discourage an already
distrustful group from cooperating with government enumerators. Waite said
federal officials did not conduct raids for several months before and after the
2000 census.

"While previous administrations sought to have law enforcement raids curtailed
somewhat to help obtain greater accuracy, we respect ICE's statement that they
will not suspend raids," said C. Louis Kincannon, the Census Bureau's director.

MARYLAND

Man who tried to kill

governor set for release

Arthur Bremer, the gunman who tried to kill Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama as
he campaigned for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1972, will be
released from prison this year, a Maryland prison official said Thursday.

In 1973, Bremer was sentenced to serve 53 years for shooting Wallace and
wounding three others at a campaign stop in Laurel, Md.

The bullet that lodged in Wallace's spine paralyzed his legs, and he used a
wheelchair until his death in 1998.

Bremer has served 35 years of his original sentence, and managed, through
credits for good behavior and steady job performance as a prison clerk, to earn
an earlier release date, said Ruth A. Ogle, a program manager at the Maryland
Parole Commission.

Bremer is scheduled to be released from the Maryland Correctional Institute on
Dec. 16, but he may be out sooner as he continues to cut time off his sentence.

LOUISIANA

Aid, insurance payments

shy of hurricane losses

Hurricanes Katrina and Rita were a $100 billion blow to Louisiana buildings and
infrastructure, and federal aid and insurance payments fall about $34 billion
short of covering the losses, a state agency says.

The $100 billion estimate, in a Louisiana Recovery Authority report set to be
released today, includes levees, public buildings and infrastructure,
businesses, houses and personal property.

Andy Kopplin, executive director of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, said he
isn't suggesting that the federal government or insurers write a $34 billion
check. But he said people shouldn't be surprised if Louisiana continues to ask
Congress for help rebuilding.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; State; Local

LENGTH: 529 words


LOS ANGELES

Labor group sues over

immigration crackdown

The nation's largest federation of labor unions sued the U.S. government
Wednesday over a plan to crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants,
arguing increased scrutiny of Social Security numbers will result in errors and
threaten the jobs of legal and American workers.

The new rules, set to take effect Sept. 14, will violate workers' rights and
impose burdensome obligations on employers who receive "no-match" letters from
the Social Security Administration, according to the AFL-CIO suit filed in the
U.S. District Court in San Francisco.

"We've seen employers use these no-match letters as a union-busting tool," said
Ana Avendano, an AFL-CIO attorney and director of its immigrant worker program.

Filed by the American Civil Liberties Union, the suit seeks to force the Bush
administration to halt the plan.

In a statement, the Department of Homeland Security said the lawsuit was "an
obvious attempt to impede the department's ability to enforce our immigration
laws. It is completely without merit and we intend to fight it vigorously."

L.A. County elections

chief to retire this year

The elections chief for the nation's most populous county announced Wednesday
that she will retire at the end of the year, in part because the state decided
to temporarily pull the plug on electronic voting machines she helped place in
5,000 precincts.

"I'm very distraught, and I don't want to preside over dismantling of popular
voter services," said Conny McCormack, who has been Los Angeles County clerk and
registrar-recorder for 12 years.

McCormack, who runs an office with more than 1,000 workers and a $120 million
annual budget, championed the use of high-tech solutions for streamlining
everything from balloting to storing birth records.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Congressman offers

regret for incident

California Congressman Bob Filner said Wednesday that he regrets a recent
incident at Dulles Airport in which he was accused of pushing a United Airlines
baggage employee, resulting in assault and battery charges.

Filner, a Democrat from Chula Vista, offered few details of the Aug. 19 incident
in a three-sentence statement issued after he returned from a week in Iraq.

His spokeswoman, Amy Pond, didn't reply to repeated phone and e-mail messages
seeking additional information, including how Filner planned to plead to the
charges.

Police contend Filner attempted to enter an employees-only area, pushed aside an
employee's arm and wouldn't leave when asked, according to Courtney Prebich,
assistant media relations manager for the Metropolitan Washington Airports
Authority.

FRESNO

Procession honors

soldier killed in Iraq

Hundreds of people lined the streets Wednesday to watch a procession carrying
the flag-draped casket of U.S. Army Cpl. Nathan Hubbard, the second son in his
family killed in the Iraq war.

Hubbard, 21, died Aug. 22 when his Black Hawk helicopter crashed in Multaka,
Iraq. Funeral services were scheduled for Friday.

Hubbard's older brother, Marine Lance Cpl. Jared Hubbard, was killed alongside
his best friend by a roadside bomb in Ar-Ramadi in 2004.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 31, 2007 Friday

'Ladrón Que Roba a Ladrón': immigrants get in on the caper

BYLINE: By Roger Moore Orlando Sentinel

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Film; Movies

LENGTH: 453 words


"Ladrón Que Roba a Ladrón" is a long overdue Hollywood overture to America's
Latino immigrant community. While there have been movies aimed at that audience,
they're plainly calculated as movies for the naturalized, the assimilated,
Spanglish speakers.

"Ladrón," a caper comedy, is not. It's in Spanish with English subtitles. It is
defiantly anti-Anglo, anti-Immigration and Naturalization Service. It panders to
people who might not want too much attention paid to how they got into the
United States. It is Hollywood slick, well-acted with great production values.

And it's funny.

The title is part of a Latin American proverb that translates as "A thief who
steals from a thief will receive 100 years of forgiveness." That's what veteran
crooks Emilio (Miguel Varoni) and Alejandro (Fernando Colunga) are after.
Alejandro has summoned Emilio from Colombia to take down a man who has gotten
rich making infomercials for bogus products ("Water of God," a cure-all, is his
bestseller) in between Spanish-language soap operas for the poor-and-gullible
corner of the Latino market.

And even though the duo have a code - "we never steal from our own" - they're
going to make an exception for Moctezuma Valdez (Saul Lizaso). They plot a heist
and recruit their team.

If you've ever seen a heist picture, you know the drill. You need a driver.
Here, he's a parking valet (Ruben Garfias). The valet's tough-talking mechanic
daughter (Ivonne Montero) comes along.

You need muscle, a master ditch-digger (Gabriel Soto). You need a play-actor,
someone who can wear disguises and pretend to be someone he's not. They find a
Cuban expat (Oscar Torres, hilarious) who suffers from stage fright.

A nanny (Julie Gonzalo) employed by the millionaire figures in the plot, which
has a modest number of twists. The "mark" figures out there's something up very
quickly. That doesn't mean his safe won't be cracked, just that more twists will
be necessary. A tunnel must be dug, a strike at an office building must be
organized, the mechanic girl must discover her feminine side with the sweaty,
too-buff ditch digger.

The cast is a real cross-section of Latino North America, actors good-looking
enough to be telenovela stars, as some of them are.

They don't make enough of one big gag, that "immigrants are invisible" to the
Anglo world. It's not clever enough to make you forget "Heist," "The Italian
Job" or "Ocean's Eleven," "Twelve" or "Thirteen." But it's fun even if it isn't
as intricate as those.`Ladrón Que Roba a Ladrón'

** 1/2

Mercury News

Rated: PG-13 (language and some sexual content)

Cast: Fernando Colunga, Saul Lizaso, Miguel Varoni, Julie Gonzalo, Oscar Torres,
Ivonne Montero

Director: Joe Menendez

Running time: 1 hour, 30 minutes

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            September 7, 2007 Friday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 337 words


LOS ANGELES

More plaintiffs in suit

alleging police abuse

Immigrant-rights groups and more than 170 people who allege they were brutalized
by officers after a peaceful May 1 immigration march joined a lawsuit against
the Los Angeles Police Department on Thursday.

The group also filed documents seeking approval to pursue the case as a class
action, which would allow other May 1 demonstrators alleging police abuse to
join the group of plaintiffs.

Plaintiffs include a photographer struck on the head several times with a police
baton and a 76-year-old who alleges he was beaten and kicked by police as he
tried to help other demonstrators leave MacArthur Park, site of the clash.

The group joined 12 plaintiffs who filed a lawsuit in early May. It seeks
unspecified damages for injuries and reforms to the department.

Video from the melee shows police beating and firing rubber bullets at the
unarmed and mostly Hispanic marchers and reporters.

Police Chief William Bratton said "agitators" sparked the melee by throwing
bottles and rocks at police. He also condemned the police response and
reassigned high-ranking officers in charge that day.

The plaintiffs allege motorcycle police who drove into the peaceful crowd
started the clash.

SAN DIEGO

Congressman charged

in incident at airport

A criminal complaint against San Diego Congressman Bob Filner says he barged
into a baggage office at Dulles International Airport near Washington, D.C.,
last month and pushed past a female worker.

The complaint says that when Filner was told to stop he yelled, "You can't stop
me!" and that the employee, Joanne Kay Kunkel, replied that the police could
stop him.

Filner, a Democrat, has been charged with misdemeanor assault and battery in the
Aug. 19 incident.

He is to appear in Virginia's Loudoun County General District Court on Oct. 2.

Amy Pond, Filner's spokeswoman, did not immediately return a call for comment
Thursday.

Filner has described the incident as a misunderstanding.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 556 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

Son of deportee leads

immigration marchers

An 8-year-old boy whose mother was deported to Mexico led a chanting crowd of
about 150 pro-immigration activists through the halls of Congress on Wednesday.
Police arrested two demonstrators for disorderly conduct.

Saul Arellano and other children carried a banner that read, "Born in the USA.
Don't take our moms and dads away."

The boy's mother, Elvira Arellano, was deported last month after taking refuge
in a Chicago church for a year.

In Washington, activists clashed with police outside the office of House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi, chanting and shouting for her to lead on immigration reform. Saul
appeared to get enveloped in the shoving crowd. Later, In Tijuana, the boy's
mother said he will move to Mexico soon and attend school there.

ILLINOIS

Sex offender notification

laws' effects questioned

State and federal laws intended to monitor released sex offenders and protect
the public actually "may cause more harm than good," a study by Human Rights
Watch released Wednesday contends.

Laws restricting where such sex offenders can live and requiring widespread
public notification of their past crimes haven't been shown to reduce the number
of new sex crimes, the report says, but causes people to shun these individuals
and perhaps drive them underground.

The report, written by Sarah Tofte of Human Rights Watch, says no studies have
definitively shown links between community notification of the presence of
convicted sex offenders and a reduction in sex offenses.

But advocates for victims of sexual abuse say no study can show how some crimes
may not have been committed.

"You can't prove a negative," said Laura Ahearn, executive director of Parents
for Megan's Law and the Crime Victims Center.

TEXAS

Coastal residents wait

for tropical storm

Tropical Storm Humberto formed off the Texas coast Wednesday, promising to bring
more rain and possibly flooding to a state coming off one of the wettest summers
in more than 50 years.

Forecasters warned residents along a 270-mile stretch of coastline extending
into southwestern Louisiana to brace for the storm, which was expected to slosh
ashore south of Houston overnight.

Between 5 and 10 inches of rain was expected, with some spots possibly getting
as much as 15 inches. No evacuations were ordered.

Humberto is the eighth named storm this year.

FLORIDA

Astronaut mental health

was concern for NASA

NASA e-mails released Wednesday indicate the space agency was looking for ways
to prevent astronaut meltdowns just three months before one-time shuttle flier
Lisa Nowak was arrested in a scandalous love triangle.

The e-mails from late last year show that space program employees interviewed
the former colleagues and wife of ex-astronaut Charles Brady Jr. after he
committed suicide in July 2006. It seemed to be an effort to find behavioral
clues that could be a tip-off in future cases.

The e-mails, which included no medical details and were heavily blacked out,
were obtained by the Associated Press under the Freedom of Information Act.

In one dated Nov. 8, 2006, a NASA or contractor employee wrote about being
instructed to look into Brady's death "in order to take from it any lessons
learned in the hope that such an event might be prevented from ever occurring
again."

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News

LENGTH: 423 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

Obama floats tax credit for poor, middle class

Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama proposed Tuesday that the
tax code be overhauled to give poor and middle-class taxpayers up to $85 billion
in relief each year by shifting that burden to corporations and wealthy
investors.

"Instead of having all of us pay our fair share, we've got over $1 trillion
worth of loopholes in the corporate tax code," Obama said.

Obama pledged tax relief to 150 million workers in the form of a credit of up to
$500 per person. It would offset payroll taxes on the first $8,100 of a worker's
earnings. An Obama adviser said the tax break would phase out at incomes between
$150,000 and $200,000 a year.

High-tech immigrants

protest visa delays

About 1,000 highly skilled legal immigrants, carrying placards and cell phones
and wearing T-shirts emblazoned with U.S. flags, rallied Tuesday at the Capitol
to protest long delays and vast bureaucratic backlogs in the immigration system.

The immigrants, including computer engineers, doctors and medical technicians
from India and China, came from as far as California and Washington state to
call on Congress to provide more permanent visas for highly educated immigrants
and more resources for the overburdened immigration system. They said the plight
of foreigners living in the United States legally had been eclipsed by the
polarized debate over illegal immigration that led to the defeat of an
immigration overhaul in June.

The immigrants, who are living in the United States on student or high-skilled
employment visas, said they were nearing despair with waits lasting as long as a
decade to obtain visas giving them permanent residence, which are known as a
green cards.

Panel to investigate

State's inspector general

A congressional committee has opened an investigation of the State Department's
inspector general, alleging he blocked fraud investigations in Afghanistan and
Iraq, including potential security lapses at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad.

Also under scrutiny is whether Blackwater USA, the security firm banned from
working in Iraq, was "illegally smuggling weapons into Iraq," according to a
letter to Howard Krongard.

The investigation accused Krongard of trying to protect the White House and the
State Department.

Krongard issued a statement Tuesday saying, "The allegations, as described to me
and in certain media reports, are replete with inaccuracies including those made
by persons with their own agendas."

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 28, 2007 Friday

World News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: WORLD; News

LENGTH: 566 words


MEXICO

Veracruz state braces

for Hurricane Lorenzo

Lorenzo strengthened into a Category 1 hurricane as it bore down on Mexico's
Gulf Coast with powerful winds and rain, forcing authorities to evacuate
low-lying coastal communities before its projected landfall today.

Officials canceled classes and set up temporary shelters on the coastline of
Veracruz state Thursday, as the Mexican government issued a hurricane warning
from Palma Sola to Cabo Rojo.

The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Florida said late Thursday that Lorenzo
was forecast to strengthen further before hitting land in six to 12 hours near
the small port of Tuxpan, and warned that "preparations to protect life and
property should be rushed to completion."

As a steady rain drenched the area late Thursday, state authorities ordered the
evacuation of at least 30 communities near several rivers and opened more than
60 shelters.

Calderón urges U.S.

to allow more Mexicans

President Felipe Calderón told U.S. governors Thursday that immigration is an
inevitable, natural phenomenon and he urged the U.S. Congress to approve reforms
that would allow more Mexicans to work legally north of the border.

Calderón demanded that the United States respect "the right to work wherever one
can make the greatest contribution.

"Immigration is a natural phenomenon that is economically and socially
inevitable," he told the meeting in the seaside resort of Puerto Penasco.

In a rare acknowledgment of the costs of migration for Mexico, Calderón said his
country "doesn't not celebrate migration . . . our best people are the ones who
go."

VENEZUELA

Iran pledges $1 billion

in financial aid to Bolivia

Iran's president opened his nation's wallet to Bolivia on Thursday and then
visited Venezuela's Hugo Chávez, in a post-U.N. trip to boost ties with Latin
American leftists who are increasingly embracing Iran as a counterweight to U.S.
influence.

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad pledged to invest $1 billion in Bolivia over the next five
years to help the poor Andean nation tap its vast natural gas reserves, extract
minerals, generate more electricity and fund agricultural and construction
projects.

Bolivian President Evo Morales, who joins Chávez as one of Iran's key allies,
called Ahmadinejad's visit historic. The two nations established diplomatic
relations for the first time, and Morales pledged they "will work together from
this day on, for our people, for life and for humanity."

NIGERIA

Gunmen kill oil worker,

kidnap man in ambush

Gunmen wearing military fatigues and traveling by boat attacked a riverside
compound Thursday in southern Nigeria, killing a Colombian oil worker and
kidnapping at least one other foreigner.

Several gunmen sprang from their skiff as it landed near a compound housing an
Italian oil-services firm in broad daylight, firing their weapons, oil industry
officials and police said. A Nigerian was also abducted.

"The suspected militants went there through the waterway and shot sporadically
at the facility. In the process, an expatriate was shot while another expatriate
and a Nigerian were taken away," police spokeswoman Ireju Barasua told the
Associated Press.

Barasua said the attack took place at the oil and gas services firm Saipem,
which is 43 percent owned by Eni SpA. Eni said in a statement that the Colombian
who was shot died of his injuries at a hospital.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday

Immigrants' concerns to be focus of forums

BYLINE: By Kim Vo Mercury News

SECTION: RELIGION; Lifestyle; Local; News

LENGTH: 480 words


Hoping to strengthen ties with the immigrant community, local political, law
enforcement and religious leaders will begin visiting churches to teach
immigrants about their rights and assure them that local cities and counties are
not helping the federal government conduct deportation raids.

A community forum will be held next month at St. Patrick Proto-Cathedral in San
Jose, a Catholic church attended by speakers of English, Spanish and Vietnamese,
said Ruby Ramirez, an organizer with the religious consortium known as PACT, or
People Acting in Community Together.

St. Maria Goretti and Most Holy Trinity - both Catholic churches in San Jose -
will also hold forums.

The details, announced at a Thursday news conference, still are in flux as a
countywide task force reviews strategies used by other communities.

Some communities, for instance, have pro bono attorneys advise people
individually, while others have invited speakers to discuss civil rights, such
as the right to bar federal agents from entering their home without a search
warrant.

Residents and leaders stressed that the community would be safer if everyone -
including illegal immigrants - believed they could call the police.

"If my Latino neighbors are afraid to go to the police," said San Jose resident
and PACT member Susan Price-Jang, "it makes my family less safe."

Law enforcement authorities such as San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis and District
Attorney Dolores Carr said everyone is treated equally regardless of their
immigration status. But they conceded they must notify federal authorities if an
illegal immigrant is arrested for specific violent, sexual or drug crimes.

Lori Haley, a spokeswoman with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement who was
not at the news conference, acknowledged that enforcing immigration laws might
run contrary to some local priorities.

Still, she said, "We find most cities see the benefits of working with ICE,
especially about gangs and sexual predators and operations that are designed to
protect public safety."

From October 2006 to August 2007, ICE removed 1,194 people in the area of
California from Bakersfield to the northern border during "fugitive operations,"
which target people who have ignored a judge's deportation order.

Illegal immigrants, Davis said, are not more criminally minded than the general
public. "The overwhelming majority of people coming into our country are great
people," he said.

The community forums will most likely come after Sunday services, though
specific times and dates have not yet been decided. Ramirez said the forums will
most likely be publicized through grass-roots methods instead of fliers, a sign
of how worried illegal immigrants are, she said.

Otherwise, Ramirez said, people will think, "Oh, gosh. It's in the newspaper. If
I show up, an ICE agent will arrest me."

Contact Kim Vo at kvo@mercurynews.com or call (408) 920-5719.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 15, 2007 Monday

South Bay immigration arrest sparks outcry among community

BYLINE: By Banks Albach MediaNews

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Crime; Special Reports; Peninsula; San Jose - Valley;
Communities; Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 316 words


A South Bay community and religious activist detained last week by Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agents who had come knocking on the door with an arrest
warrant for someone else now faces possible deportation, sparking an outcry
among friends and parishioners of a Mountain View church.

While staying with his goddaughter's mother on the 300 block of Green Lake Drive
in Sunnyvale, 37-year-old Lucio Caciano Miranda was snared by the agents after
opening the front door Wednesday morning. The agents were investigating another
man who had most likely lived in the house before the current residents.

But after quizzing Miranda, a Santa Clara resident, about his immigration
status, the agents handcuffed and transported him in an unmarked car first to
San Francisco and later to jail in Yuba County, north of Sacramento.

Regardless of the name on the warrant, ICE agents are required while conducting
their raids to arrest anyone found to be in the country illegally, ICE
spokeswoman Lori Haley said.

The policy, and Miranda's resulting arrest, has angered his friends and fellow
parishioners at St. Athanasius Church in Mountain View. Philip Crosby, a member
of the church and a leader with Peninsula Interfaith Action, helped organize a
rally Monday night for Miranda on the 100 block of North Rengstorff Avenue.

Last spring, Miranda completed a three-year program at the Diocese of San Jose's
Institute for Leadership and Ministry. Crosby and other friends said Miranda
also has worked closely with young people, especially gang members, for about
eight years through the group Youth for Christ.

Crosby and others were also hoping to protest in front of Miranda's hearing
today before an immigration judge in San Francisco. He is scheduled to appear at
9 a.m. Miranda does not appear to have a criminal record, said his lawyer, James
Bennett.

Contact Banks Albach at balbach@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 16, 2007 Tuesday

Immigration arrest sparks outcry among Mountain View congregation

BYLINE: By Banks Albach MediaNews

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; Special Reports;
Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 316 words


A South Bay community and religious activist detained last week by Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agents who had come knocking on the door with an arrest
warrant for someone else now faces possible deportation, sparking an outcry
among friends and parishioners of a Mountain View church.

While staying with his goddaughter's mother on the 300 block of Green Lake Drive
in Sunnyvale, 37-year-old Lucio Caciano Miranda was snared by the agents after
opening the front door Wednesday morning. The agents were investigating another
man who had most likely lived in the house before the current residents.

But after quizzing Miranda, a Santa Clara resident, about his immigration
status, the agents handcuffed and transported him in an unmarked car first to
San Francisco and later to jail in Yuba County, north of Sacramento.

Regardless of the name on the warrant, ICE agents are required while conducting
their raids to arrest anyone found to be in the country illegally, ICE
spokeswoman Lori Haley said.

The policy, and Miranda's resulting arrest, has angered his friends and fellow
parishioners at St. Athanasius Church in Mountain View. Philip Crosby, a member
of the church and a leader with Peninsula Interfaith Action, helped organize a
rally Monday night for Miranda on the 100 block of North Rengstorff Avenue.

Last spring, Miranda completed a three-year program at the Diocese of San Jose's
Institute for Leadership and Ministry. Crosby and other friends said Miranda
also has worked closely with young people, especially gang members, for about
eight years through the group Youth for Christ.

Crosby and others were also hoping to protest in front of Miranda's hearing
today before an immigration judge in San Francisco. He is scheduled to appear at
9 a.m. Miranda does not appear to have a criminal record, said his lawyer, James
Bennett.

Contact Banks Albach at balbach@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday

Editorial: Gung-ho immigration raids cast too wide a net

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 442 words


What federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have described as
fugitive operations to deport criminals and gang members have turned into
indiscriminate arrests of undocumented immigrants.

The Bush administration must put a halt to these random detentions, which are
separating families, creating fear in neighborhoods and hurting the efforts of
local police to win the trust of the immigrant community.

The latest incident led to the chance arrest and now possible deportation of a
beloved Mountain View Catholic church youth lay minister. Lucio Caciano Miranda,
37, was handcuffed in an early morning raid last week at a home in Sunnyvale. He
was released, pending further hearings, after appearing in immigration court on
Tuesday.

ICE officials apparently had a warrant for a previous resident. They questioned
Miranda about his status, then hauled him off to a jail in Yuba County. They can
do this because immigration officials don't need to seek warrants or read people
their rights.

But just because they can treat non-citizens under a different standard doesn't
mean they should. Reports of armed midnight raids into wrong homes that
terrorized families have been too numerous to discount. San Jose's police and
other departments have publicly disassociated themselves from ICE, because
witnesses who fear deportation will not come forward to help the police solve
crimes.

Miranda has been in America for 15 years and works as a gardener. But he's best
known for his work with Juvenos para Cristo (Youths for Christ) at St.
Athanasius parish and the Peninsula Interfaith Alliance.

He obtained his high school GED diploma and was trained for three years through
the San Jose Diocese to be become a lay minister. He is the type of leader who
offers hope to young people and stability to the community - a person the
government should be praising, not deporting.

Hundreds of his admirers, many of them teenagers, filled church pews Monday
night in a prayer service. Some held a vigil outside court Tuesday. They wore
Lucio name tags to underscore their anxiety that they could be next; as the
poster on the church wall said, "Today, Lucio. Tomorrow, Us."

ICE has stepped up its aggressive approach after Congress' and the president's
failure to pass comprehensive immigration reform. The agency should be deporting
felons and gang members, but indiscriminate arrests only create unnecessary fear
in our communities.

Officials in several cities and counties have called for ICE to be reined in.
Local communities of faith and everyone concerned about justice and safety
should join them in protesting the federal government's heavy-handed tactics.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 19, 2007 Friday

Church worker faces uncertain future after immigration arrest

BYLINE: By Jeff Thomas Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Peninsula; San Jose - Valley;
Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 951 words


For now, Lucio Caciano is just relieved to be out of the Yuba City jail and back
home in Sunnyvale. He's trying not to think too much about what could happen in
the coming weeks, when his life could change as dramatically as it did 15 years
ago when he walked across the border at Tijuana and entered the United States
illegally.

Caciano, 37, a much-loved youth program coordinator at St. Athanasius Catholic
Church in Mountain View, was arrested by immigration agents last week when they
knocked on his door. They were looking for someone who used to live at the
house. They found Caciano instead.

Now, out on a $5,000 bond raised by friends and supporters, Caciano faces a Nov.
1 hearing that could result in his deportation to Mexico.

"I feel very happy right now," Caciano said Thursday, "because I am back home
already. But I am worried about what could happen."

Caciano's case has magnified the already divisive arguments about immigration
reform. Those who know Caciano are outraged that such a hardworking,
compassionate person, someone who mentors young adults and teens, and ministers
to gang members, could be plucked from their midst.

"This is exactly the kind of person we should be happy to have in our
communities," said Philip Cosby, a friend and fellow parishioner at St.
Athanasius, where hundreds of supporters attended a rally Monday, raising money
for bail and legal fees.

"He is beloved by the people in his group. And he is out there, actually helping
people."

But others are just as outraged: They wonder why there is even a debate if
Caciano is living in the country illegally. Send him back, they say.

Being a good person is not enough for Bill Bailey of Santa Clara, who, like
dozens who commented on an early story and editorial about Caciano's arrest on
the Mercury News' Web site this week, favors deportation.

"It is just grossly unfair to expect the public to go along with this, to
enforce one law and not another," said Bailey, a 55-year-old engineer. "I'm sure
he's a nice person, but he's not a citizen, he's here illegally. We can't make
exclusions for one person in Mountain View, because then where are we?"

Caciano said he understands that people might feel that way, but he wonders if
they really understand his plight.

"They don't know how we are feeling," he said. "They don't live our life.
They're right, we came here illegally, but we are working, all the time. There
are reasons to send people back, criminals, people who do something wrong, but
not the people who are working hard and trying to make a better life."

Caciano's quiet life under the radar in the United States - he's been working
weekdays as a gardener while spending his weekends at the church - began when he
was 22.

In 1992, he paid someone $350 to get him from the Mexican state of Guerrero into
Los Angeles, where he met up with a friend who was already living in Mountain
View. The friend eventually returned to Mexico, but Caciano stayed, working long
hours at a restaurant for almost 10 years. When he was able to change his line
of work, his life took on an added dimension.

"When I got the job as a gardener, I had more time in the afternoons and
evenings, so I could start going to church again," he said. He had worked at a
church in Chilpancingo, Mexico, as a young man, he said.

Caciano has been attending St. Athanasius for eight years, the last five of
which he has been active with the youth group, counseling older teens and young
adults on Friday nights and arranging field trips to places like Yosemite and
Lake Tahoe. Last year, he was named coordinator of the group. He said he is
considering studying to be ordained as a priest.

"I would classify him as an outstanding citizen," said Oscar Maldonado, who was
coordinator of the youth group before Caciano took over. "He's been very
successful with the group, guiding them when they really need it."

Caciano also impressed an official at the Diocese of San Jose.

"It's awful what's happened to Lucio," said Anne Grycz, who runs the diocese's
Institute for Leadership and Ministry, where Caciano recently trained to become
a lay minister. "I know him, and this is not the kind of person who should be
deported. He's a leader in his church, he cares about people, and he's done
wonderful things for his parish."

Grycz said Caciano was recommended for the institute by his pastor, and
graduated from the program in May. She said the rigorous three-year program of
weekly class meetings provides "a good solid education. The students have
reading assignments, papers to write; it's not lightweight by any means."

Caciano has few options. He could leave the country voluntarily. He could apply
for a special religious immigration status - although one of the requirements
for such status is that the immigrant be full time and compensated in the church
position, and Caciano is neither. Or he could fight the arrest because the
agents had no warrant with his name on it. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials maintain that it is lawful for agents to arrest any illegal immigrant
in the course of an investigation.

Caciano said he will meet with his lawyer, James Bennett, on Saturday to discuss
his case. Bennett could not be reached for comment Thursday night.

Caciano does have two brothers and a 74-year-old father in Mexico, to whom he
sends $100 every month. But, he said, "it's very hard to live in Mexico.

"I am worried about going back, because I've been living here 15 years, and have
very many friends here," he said. "I'm trying to find some way to stay, but I
don't know what is going to happen to me."

Contact Jeff Thomas at jthomas@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5892.

Mercury News Staff Writer Patrick May contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: During an Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid last week in
Sunnyvale, Lucio Caciano was arrested for being in the United States illegally
even though agents were looking for somebody who used to live at that address.
Caciano is now facing deportation. (Dai Sugano/Mercury News)
During an Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid last week in Sunnyvale, Lucio
Caciano was arrested for being in the United States illegally even though agents
were looking for somebody who used to live at that address. Caciano is now
facing deportation. (Dai Sugano/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 262 words


SACRAMENTO

Wildfires cause state

to delay EPA lawsuit

Preoccupied by the wildfires in southern California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger
and other state officials decided Tuesday to delay filing a lawsuit against the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, an effort to force the EPA to allow the
state to regulate tailpipe emissions.

Mary Nichols, chair of the Air Resources Board, said the suit would be filed
next week, not today as planned, "so that all state and federal resources can
remain focused on fighting these devastating wildfires."

In April, Schwarzenegger filed a 180-day notice of his intent to take EPA to
court under the Clean Air Act to force the agency to grant the state's request
to restrict greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles. The deadline passed on
Monday. The EPA has promised a decision by the end of the year.

LOS ANGELES

Officials close center

for detained immigrants

Federal authorities have temporarily shut down a troubled immigrant detention
center and moved hundreds of detainees to other facilities, officials said
Tuesday.

The center, located in the San Pedro area of Los Angeles, houses about 450
immigrants who have been detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
and are facing deportation.

It was closed so authorities could "carry out preventive maintenance" and make
modifications, ICE officials said. The work was expected to take four to six
weeks.

A total of 408 detainees were moved to other facilities in California, Texas,
Arizona and Washington, officials said.

Mercury News staff and wire reports

Mercury News staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday

Santa Clara County plans flu workshop for immigrant communities

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Science; Breaking

LENGTH: 179 words


Santa Clara County is helping local groups that serve immigrant communities to
prepare for flu season at a workshop in San Jose on Friday.

The county has more immigrant residents than any other Bay Area county and is
third in the state behind Los Angeles and Orange counties, according to the
county officials. This diversity makes the organizations that serve these
communities invaluable to getting the message out about the upcoming flu season.

At the Preparing Immigrant Communities for Pandemic Influenza Workshop county
and non-profit representatives will provide information and training about the
challenges facing the community.

The workshop takes place at Catholic Charities at 2625 Zanker Road in San Jose
from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.

The workshop is sponsored by the Santa Clara County Department of Health, the
Office of Human Relations and the Refugee and Immigrant Forum. For more
information call (408) 792-2300.

Copyright © 2007 by Bay City News, Inc. - republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 205 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 7, 2006 Tuesday

Medicaid change puts newborns at risk

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 433 words


Rep. Charlie Norwood should know better than to put the health of babies at
risk.

The Georgia Republican pushed through Congress a new law, which took effect in
July, aimed at reducing the number of illegal immigrants fraudulently claiming
U.S. citizenship to receive Medicaid benefits.

Norwood should have exempted babies born here to illegal immigrants from the new
requirements. His failure to do so means that those babies -- who are U.S.
citizens -- are at increased risk of not receiving essential immunizations and
well-baby checkups.

When Congress reconvenes, it should quickly exempt newborn babies from Norwood's
law, making those who come from families with low incomes automatically eligible
for health insurance for the first year of their lives through Medicaid.

In Santa Clara County, a majority (perhaps as high as 75 percent) of the 5,500
babies born annually at Valley Medical Center are Medi-Cal eligible. The number
born to illegal immigrants is unknown. But VMC officials add that babies who
don't receive essential care in the first year of their life will ultimately
cost county taxpayers more dollars than would be saved by not providing them
with routine physicals and immunizations. It doesn't take a medical degree to
know that the first year of babies' lives is crucial to their well-being as they
mature. Pediatricians are often able to detect serious health issues in even the
first few weeks of a baby's life.

The medical profession could also do without the extra paperwork required by
Norwood's law. Health care costs are already skyrocketing, and excessive
administrative costs are one of the worst contributors. As Kimberly Belshe,
secretary of the California Health and Human Services Agency, told reporters
last week, ``By virtue of being born in the United States, a child is a U.S.
citizen. What more proof does the federal government need?''

Norwood's law demands that parents of newborns formally apply for Medicaid. They
are required to provide two separate pieces of information proving citizenship.
It takes between 20-25 days for most counties to issue birth certificates to
parents, who must also fork over $17 in Santa Clara County for the document. The
American Academy of Pediatrics has good reason to worry that some illegal
immigrants, fearing they will be turned over to the authorities, will not apply
for Medicaid coverage for their children.

The federal government already exempts the mentally impaired and physically
incapacitated from some eligibility paperwork for Medicaid benefits. It should
be relatively simple to add newborns to the exemption.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Education

LENGTH: 247 words


Yahoo sales chief

resigns in shake-up

Yahoo said Sunday that its chief domestic sales officer resigned and that the
company will merge its search and display advertising departments in the United
States as the Internet powerhouse fights to catch up with online search leader
Google.

The reshuffling follows a major executive overhaul announced last week, with
co-founder Jerry Yang replacing Terry Semel as chief executive. In the latest
organizational change, Yahoo said Wenda Millard, chief sales officer in the
United States, is leaving the company effective immediately.

In an interview with the Associated Press, Millard, who immediately announced
that she has taken the newly created position of president of media for Martha
Stewart Living Omnimedia in New York, said she bore no ill will toward Yahoo.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Senators push tougher

border enforcement

Senators seeking to overhaul U.S. immigration laws urged lawmakers Sunday to
move forward this week with a plan that would strengthen enforcement along U.S.
borders and then launch provisions for undocumented workers to stay legally in
this country.

"There has to be detention of people coming across the border," said Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-Calif., a supporter of the immigration bill, on "Fox News Sunday."
"So there will be border enforcement, 3,500 additional border patrol, before any
other part of the bill goes into place. People don't understand that."

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
