
                               1 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 453 words


,FLO

,FLO

,FLO

NEW YORK

Illegal immigrant driver's

license plan to be killed New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer has decided to abandon a
plan to issue driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, officials told the
Associated Press on Tuesday night.

The governor is to meet today with New York's congressional delegation, many of
whom openly oppose the program. Debate over the issue also has spilled into New
York Sen. Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign.

The governor's office signaled to New York lawmakers Tuesday that Spitzer will
say at the meeting that he is shelving the plan and that immigration is a
federal issue to be handled by Washington, according to congressional aides who
spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.

WASHINGTON, D.C. Justice Department

reopens spying probe The Justice Department said Tuesday that it has abruptly
reopened an internal investigation of the role played by its attorneys in the
administration's warrantless surveillance program, marking a notable policy
shift just days into the tenure of new Attorney General Michael Mukasey.

The investigation by the Office of Professional Responsibility was abandoned in
July 2006 after President Bush refused to give security clearances to the
attorneys attempting to conduct the investigation, according to documents.

That rebuff represented an unusually direct White House intervention into the
Justice Department's internal affairs and came under sharp criticism from
congressional Democrats, who were eager to learn about the involvement of
Justice Department attorneys in the National Security Agency's domestic spying
program.

H. Marshall Jarrett, the office's chief counsel, wrote in a letter to several
lawmakers Tuesday that attorneys in his office "recently received the necessary
security clearances and are now able to proceed with our investigation." He said
the investigation will focus on "the role of Department of Justice attorneys in
the authorization and oversight of warrantless electronic surveillance . . . and
in complying with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act."

ILLINOIS Four patients contract

HIV from organ donor Four transplant recipients in Chicago have contracted HIV
from an organ donor, the first known cases in more than a decade of the virus
being spread by organ transplants. The organs also gave all four patients
hepatitis C, in what health officials said was the first reported instance of
the two viruses being spread simultaneously by a transplant.

Though rare, the transmission highlights a weakness in the system for checking
organ donors for infection: the most common tests can fail to detect viral
diseases if they are performed too early in the course of the infection.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 2, 2008 Monday

Editorial: Anyone who pays taxes should get a rebate check

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 255 words


Few things can be as nasty as anti-immigration politics in an election year.
Congress was so determined to exclude undocumented workers from the economic
stimulus program that it also shortchanged hundreds of thousands of troops
overseas and legal immigrants working in the United States.

In late May, a much-chagrined Congress amended the program to entitle members of
the armed services to their checks. That's fine, but not enough. At a minimum,
legal immigrants and their spouses should get payments, too. And the rebates
really should extend to anyone who pays taxes, including illegal immigrants.

The goal of the stimulus is to jump-start the economy. Cutting out millions of
workers and taxpayers undermines the program's effectiveness.

Congress created the problem by restricting the stimulus rebates - up to $1,200
per couple, plus an additional $300 per child - to workers with Social Security
numbers. Workers whom the IRS assigns Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers
- primarily millions of illegal immigrants - were denied cash back.

But workers whose spouses don't have a Social Security number were excluded,
too. They included American soldiers stationed abroad who have foreign spouses,
high-tech professionals in Silicon Valley with H-1B visas whose spouses aren't
allowed to work, and about a million legal immigrants whose spouses are overseas
awaiting visas.

Tax laws should be applied uniformly, not as a tool to discriminate. And
Congress should be making progress on immigration reform, not moving backward.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 20, 2007 Tuesday

San Francisco supervisors OK ID cards for undocumented immigrants

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities;
Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 648 words


San Francisco will begin issuing municipal identification cards to illegal
immigrants next year, becoming the second city in the country to create such a
program in the wake of stalled immigration reform efforts in Washington.

The board of supervisors Tuesday gave the final OK needed to create the ID card
program, systematically legitimizing the city's estimated 40,000 illegal
immigrants.

The cards will be available to anyone living in the city next August and used as
proof of identity when it comes to most facets of city business, from library
service to police stops. Although immigrants are the prime target for the ID
program, the cards will available to anyone who wants them.

The program becomes the most significant piece in San Francisco's efforts to
offer a safe haven for illegal immigrants, which includes prohibiting city
employees and police from asking anyone about their immigration status. Many
other cities in the Bay Area, including San Jose offer such protections to
immigrants.

Developing the program took on new urgency for San Francisco leaders this summer
after Congress' inability to enact immigration reform and as the Bush
administration made moves to more stringently enforce current immigration laws.

"This will recognize contributions of people who are part of the community,"
said Supervisor Tom Ammiano, who led the push for the cards.

The full extent of how the cards can be used remains to be hashed out, but San
Francisco leaders are trying to develop a plan that would incorporate both an
identification card and public transportation pass.

The cards - complete with cardholders' addresses and photos - would cost $15 for
adults and $5 for youths. Discounts will be offered to considered low-income.

Ammiano estimates the program will cost San Francisco about $500,000, most of
that expected during the program's first year. Although some officials predict
it could cost as much as $3 million.

"If people have to live in the shadows, it affects you, me and everyone,"
Ammiano said, adding leaders are also working with banks so the IDs could be
used to open checking and savings accounts.

He said the cards also will offer some solace to illegal immigrants who have
shied away from reporting crimes committed against them for fear of being found
out.

The move didn't surprise Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Washington D.C.-based
Federation for American Immigration Reform, an organization calling for tighter
border enforcement.

"It's San Francisco being San Francisco," said Mehlman, noting that the move is
far different from a controversial - and now-scrapped - plan by New York Gov.
Eliot Spitzer to offer driver's license to illegal immigrants.

Mehlman likened San Francisco's cards to "high school identification cards" that
can't be used outside of the city and "it seems like an act of defiance" because
supervisors "don't support stepped up enforcement."

Ammiano got the idea for the cards from New Haven, Conn., where leaders began to
talk about a city ID card for residents - specifically illegal immigrants -
around summer 2005.

At the time, the city of roughly 127,000 was experiencing some growing pains as
its illegal immigrant population grew to about 15,000.

Robbers called illegal immigrants, who routinely carry cash because they don't
have bank accounts, "walking ATMs," said Kica Matos, New Haven's community
services director.

New Haven began issuing cards July 24 with a $236,000 grant, expecting to hand
out 5,000 cards during the first 12 months.

But in less than four months, leaders have nearly surpassed their estimates,
issuing 4,670 cards as of Monday, Matos said.

Ammiano said his plan doesn't only acknowledge illegal immigrants, but gives
them a voice to speak up.

When it comes to basic human rights, he said, "it's not a good idea to keep your
head in the sand."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday

Lay minister course may pave way for citizenship

BYLINE: By Cody Kraatz Bay Area News Group

SECTION: LOCAL; News; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Breaking

LENGTH: 535 words


Lucio Caciano, an undocumented Mexican immigrant and Sunnyvale resident, saw a
glimmer of hope on Dec. 11 in a small, sedate San Francisco courtroom.

An immigration judge told him that despite many hurdles, he should find a lawyer
and apply for a special immigrant religious worker visa application before his
next hearing on Feb. 19.

Caciano, 37, may qualify because he leads a youth group at St. Athanasius
Catholic Church in Mountain View and recently completed a three-year lay
minister course through the Diocese of San Jose.

He seemed more confident and optimistic than he was in November, when he said he
had come to terms with what he saw as an inevitable return to Mexico.

Caciano was arrested at his home in the 300 block of Greenlake Drive for being
in the country illegally on Oct. 10 by Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents, who were looking for someone else. He was released from Yuba City Jail
on Oct. 16 on $5,000 bail raised by his church community.

"He was arrested for being in the country illegally, so ICE is seeking his
removal from the country," said Lori Haley, an ICE spokeswoman, saying she could
not be more specific for privacy reasons.

A court-appointed temporary lawyer answered Caciano's numerous questions, and
Caciano said he would look into every option he had that could keep him in the
United States. He has lived in California for 15 years and in Sunnyvale for the
past three years.

His first obstacle is that he entered the country illegally, making him
ineligible for the religious worker visa according to immigration rules.

And even if it were granted, he would have to leave the country to activate it,
triggering a 10-year ban from entering the country because of his status as an
illegal immigrant, said Charles Kuck, an Atlanta immigration attorney. Kuck is
president-elect of the pro-immigration American Immigration Lawyers Association,
which lobbies heavily for immigration reform.

Second, the religious worker visa law expires on Oct. 1, 2008. Congress is sure
to renew it, as it does every three years, because "if they didn't the Catholic
Church would run out of priests and nuns," said Kuck.

Judge Webber, a former AILA president, wished Caciano good luck and set his
hearing to meet the Oct. 1 deadline.

Third, the U.S. Department of State requires two years of continuous work for a
religious vocation or occupation for a religious worker visa, though it does not
specify how he must be paid. Caciano and St. Athanasius representatives did not
return calls asking if he had ever been paid. He cited construction-type jobs as
his primary source of income.

A fourth obstacle is finding a low-cost, Spanish-speaking lawyer, probably
through Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County.

Claire Wagner, a Catholic Charities spokeswoman, could not discuss his case
because of confidentiality, but said the agency is a top provider of low-cost
immigration legal services in the county.

His case has even drawn Sen. Dianne Feinstein's attention. Her office recently
called fellow parishioner and supporter Phil Cosby.

Meanwhile, Caciano is working as a laborer and receiving some food and clothing
support from parishioners.

"He has friends looking after him," said Fitzpatrick.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lucio Caciano sits in front of a piano in a room where he works with a
Youth group called Jovenes para Christo (Youth for Christ) at St. Athanasius
Church in Mountain View.Photograph by Mark Tantrum

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 28, 2007 Friday

Deportation looms for Mountain View lay minister

BYLINE: By Cody Kraatz Bay Area News Group

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Peninsula; San Jose - Valley; Communities

LENGTH: 445 words


A popular Mountain View youth leader facing deportation hearings may have found
a glimmer of hope.

In a Dec. 11 hearing in San Francisco, an immigration judge advised Luciano
Caciano, an undocumented Mexican immigrant and Sunnyvale resident, to apply for
a special immigrant religious worker visa before his next hearing on Feb. 19.

Caciano, 37, may qualify because he leads a youth group at St. Athanasius
Catholic Church in Mountain View and recently completed a three-year lay
minister course through the Diocese of San Jose.

Caciano was arrested at his home Oct. 10 for being in the country illegally by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, who were looking for someone else.
He was released from Yuba City Jail on Oct. 16 on $5,000 bail raised by his
church community.

"He was arrested for being in the country illegally, so ICE is seeking his
removal from the country," said Lori Haley, an ICE spokeswoman, saying she could
not be more specific for privacy reasons.

Caciano has lived in California for 15 years and in Sunnyvale for the past three
years. But although he said he was more optimistic after the hearing about being
able to stay in the United States, numerous hurdles remain.

His first obstacle is that he entered the country illegally, which makes him
ineligible for the religious worker visa, according to immigration rules.

And even if the visa were granted, he would have to leave the country to
activate it, triggering a 10-year ban from entering the country because of his
status as an illegal immigrant, said Charles Kuck, an Atlanta immigration
attorney. Kuck is president-elect of the pro-immigration American Immigration
Lawyers Association, which lobbies heavily for immigration reform.

Third, the U.S. State Department requires two years of continuous work in a
religious vocation or occupation for a religious worker visa. Caciano and St.
Athanasius representatives did not return calls asking if he had ever been paid.
He cited construction-type jobs as his primary source of income.

The religious worker visa law expires Oct. 1, but Kuck said Congress is sure to
renew it, as it does every three years. "If they didn't, the Catholic Church
would run out of priests and nuns," Kuck said.

A fourth obstacle is finding a low-cost, Spanish-speaking lawyer. Caciano was
represented by a court-appointed, temporary lawyer at this month's hearing.
Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County is a top provider of low-cost
immigration legal services here, but spokeswoman Claire Wagner said she could
not discuss his case because of confidentiality.

Caciano is currently working as a laborer and receiving some food and clothing
support from parishioners.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 2, 2008 Wednesday

Hidden agenda for illegal immigrants

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: OPINION; Letters

LENGTH: 808 words


Hidden agenda for

illegal immigrants

Peter Schrag (Opinion, Dec. 31) is missing the point of our immigration crisis.
Business, politicians and the media never call for legal immigrants, as only
Mexicans will further their hidden goal of North American integration structured
to benefit the few, without the consent of the governed. As David Brooks of the
New York Times confirmed in a recent article, the "elite" have reached a
bipartisan agreement on free trade-NAFTA, which is producing great wealth,
failing to mention the wealth is going only to the elite. Any North American
union should follow the European blueprint; the people's consent at every step,
structured for all to benefit, not just the elite.

Elaine Brown
San Jose

Protecting borders

isn't prejudicial

Peter Schrag typifies the liberal approach to the illegal immigration issue,
which is to bundle illegal and legal immigration together. This leads him to
assert that, if you are against one, then you must be against the other. It is a
transparent ploy to make us feel guilty about not wanting an additional 100
million people on our doorstep. Schrag must think that we are extremely naive or
superbly stupid to buy into his argument. For one thing, this is 2007, not 1891.
This issue is not about witch hunts. It is about whether we as a nation believe
that our laws and our borders should be respected. Voters need to know,
unequivocally, where the presidential candidates stand on these principles.

Steven Stark
Cupertino

Regulate zoos,

don't abolish them

I do not agree with the people who want to abolish zoos. I support two wildlife
organizations: World Wildlife Fund and Defenders of Wildlife. The two big things
that cause whole species to become endangered is loss of habitat and poachers.
Some, like the blackfoot ferret, cannot find enough food since some people like
to kill the prairie dogs that they eat. I would like to see stricter
surveillance of the zoos by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums with some
teeth in the law to protect both animals and humans.

Norma Graser
Santa Clara

Obama's politics

transcend race

George Will and I are white soul brothers (I can't believe I said that!) - at
least on the politics of Barack Obama. Obama lives in the post-DNA age when race
is rendered meaningless; a provincial artifact. He transcends, not ignores, skin
pigmentation. He speaks to issues beyond color. He is the knob on the door. It
is now his turn.

Allen Price
Mountain View

Iraq, Afghanistan

can't be deserted

History is full of well-meaning liberators or humanitarian interventions gone
awry when they leave. The surest path to retribution, murder, financial ruin and
the development of a nation hostile to the "liberator" is when you leave a mess
behind without a sound economy or firm governmental system. While we all are
tempted to do the easy thing and withdraw from Iraq or Afghanistan, just
remember that leaving Cambodia in the 1970s, Afghanistan in the late '80s and
Somalia in the 1990s to their own devices through a policy of cut-and-run cost
them horrendously. That strategy also didn't do us any favors in terms of
credibility or a willingness for others to be partners. We are now obligated to
stay in Iraq and Afghanistan until both places are stable.

E. Alfred Johnson
Royal Oak, Mich.

Loose pit bulls

too dangerous

I was driving on Sunday and saw three loose pit bulls at the corner of Taylor
and 19th streets. I did not notice collars, leashes or anyone attending them. I
promptly called the San Jose police, and they said they would call animal
control. Now we hear again of an attack by a pit bull on a woman and child. I am
told a pit bull can be a very good pet, but how long will we continue to endure
the killings and maulings by pit bulls?

Ronald M. May
San Jose

Writers should

address funding

Many articles appear in newspapers explaining why government should increase
spending for one noble cause or another. Wonderful reasons are given for why
"this" cause should receive an increase in funding. Unfortunately, it is rare
that such articles will include recommendations for the specific sources of
funding. California is facing a $14 billion deficit, which will require cuts in
the budgets of many worthy programs. Whose budgets must absorb the additional
cuts to fund increased funding of the University of California? Nothing was
recommended. I would recommend that every article promoting government funding
of a program be preceded with a disclosure that "this article proposes
government funding (with) or (without) specific explanation of the sources and
means of funding and the resultant impact on other programs." Perhaps, knowing
that this disclosure would precede their articles, more authors would be
motivated to present more complete treatises. Then, it would be clear what they
are willing to sacrifice to get what they want.

Larry Shoemaker
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday

Lawmakers don't dare admit benefits of illegal immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 773 words


More and more states are doing the job that Congress failed to do by trying to
formulate immigration policy - either by scaring off immigrants or bringing in
more of them.

According to the Associated Press, about 350 immigration-related bills were
introduced in state legislatures in the first two months of this year.
Legislators in states across the country are doing everything they can to make
illegal immigrants feel unwelcome - by denying them driver's licenses, college
admission, medical care, etc.

The irony is that in many of these states, it is illegal immigrants who helped
fuel growth, construction, development and economic prosperity. Show me a state
where people feel overrun by illegal immigrants and I'll show you one where
individuals, businesses and municipalities have, in recent years, lined their
pockets thanks to illegal labor.

Talk about ungrateful.

Meanwhile, Republican lawmakers in California have gone from ungrateful to
untruthful. Not only do they deny that illegal immigrant labor has been a net
positive for the state - and specifically to many of the farmers, ranchers,
hoteliers and restaurateurs who tend to contribute to Republican campaigns - now
the legislators are claiming that illegal immigration has a "negative impact" on
the state budget, which is $8 billion in the red.

Recently, Republicans in Sacramento unveiled nearly two dozen enforcement bills
intended to improve the state's bottom line by cracking down on illegal
immigrants. Predictably absent from their proposals is any mention of getting
tough on employers, lest those employers return the favor by getting tough on
Republican lawmakers.

Luckily, at least one California Republican is still thinking straight. Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger said last week that it would be a "big mistake" to blame
California's gargantuan budget woes on people who are in the country without
proper documents.

"There is always a time like this where you start pointing the finger at various
different elements of what creates this budget mess, and some may point a finger
at illegal immigrants," Schwarzenegger said. "I can guarantee you, I have been
now four years in office in Sacramento, I don't think that illegal immigration
has created the mess that we are in."

Schwarzenegger is right, and that is no surprise. When it comes to immigration,
the governor - himself an Austrian immigrant - has a common sense not usually
found in politicians.

I've seen this in interviews over the past few years where Schwarzenegger has
stressed that Americans need to channel their anger and frustration at
government and not at the immigrants themselves, acknowledged the xenophobia
wrapped up in the immigration debate, and pointed out that many of those who
come to the United States illegally do so because the law doesn't provide a way
for them to come legally.

In fielding the budget question, Schwarzenegger could also have pointed out that
the state would be in even worse economic shape if not for the prosperity and
productivity of those who do business in California. Whether you're talking
about hotels in San Diego, restaurants in Los Angeles, farms in Fresno or
wineries in Napa, there are plenty of employers who contribute generously to the
state's tax base - and they are able to do so in part because they have access
to illegal immigrants. While Congress and the states fiddle over this issue,
these employers know that a labor shortage could put them out of business.

That's why some states - instead of trying to get rid of immigrant workers - are
actively trying to bring in more of them. In Colorado and Arizona, lawmakers are
considering state-run guest-worker programs to import more immigrant laborers.
The Arizona plan would allow employers to use Mexican consulates to recruit
workers, as if they were glorified unemployment offices. In Colorado, the idea
is to help locate workers to harvest chili peppers, tomatoes and watermelons -
the kinds of swell jobs that clueless cable news demagogues assure us Americans
would gladly do if wages were higher.

Coincidentally, Arizona and Colorado also happen to be replete with people who
are concerned about immigrants, both legal and illegal, and the cultural changes
they bring about. Is the assumption that immigrant guest workers wouldn't bring
about the same changes?

By holding up two signs at the border - "Keep Out" and "Help Wanted" - Americans
send mixed messages about illegal immigration. And now individual states are
doing the same.

It doesn't really matter which level of government tackles this problem. The
contradictions remain.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 500 words


LOS ANGELES

Parents: Hunt illegal

immigrant gangsters

The parents of a slain high school football star urged passage Tuesday of a law
requiring Los Angeles police to hunt down gang members who are illegal
immigrants.

Such a law would alter a 30-year policy under which officers do not seek to
enforce immigration laws.

Jamiel Shaw Jr., 17, was shot to death on March 2 as he walked home in South Los
Angeles.

An alleged gang member, Pedro Espinoza, 19, has been charged with the youth's
murder and also is under investigation by federal immigration officials to
determine whether he is an illegal immigrant.

Jamiel Shaw Sr. and his wife, Anita, urged the city council to pass "Jamiel's
Law," which has been proposed by a mayoral candidate but has not yet reached the
council.

It would require police to work with federal officials "to identify, arrest,
prosecute, imprison and deport illegal aliens who are, or appear to be, gang
members or affiliate gang members," whether or not they had committed any other
crimes.

WESTMINSTER

Judge puts limits

on Viet protesters

A judge placed limits Tuesday on the activities of protesters who have been
picketing a Vietnamese-language newspaper because they believe it has communist
leanings.

Orange County Superior Court Judge Derek Hunt granted a preliminary injunction
against three of the protesters, saying they may not threaten the Nguoi Viet
Daily News' employees, trespass, vandalize property or interfere with customers.

Anti-communist activists began picketing the newspaper in January after it
published a photo of a plastic pedicure basin decorated in the colors of the
former South Vietnamese flag.

The photo accompanied an article about an art student who created the foot basin
to honor her mother-in-law, a Vietnamese refugee who worked for 20 years in a
U.S. nail salon to support relatives in Vietnam.

Protesters, however, said the image showed disrespect for the South Vietnamese
flag and countrymen who were left behind when northern communists took over the
south in 1975.

SANTA ANA

Sheriff requests FBI

probe county jails

Acting Orange County Sheriff Jack Anderson said Tuesday that he has asked the
FBI to investigate possible civil rights violations in the county jails in the
wake of an inmate slaying and a damning report about jail operations.

Anderson also told the county board of supervisors that he had placed six
sheriff's personnel on paid leave and planned to place others on leave as he
continued to review the grand jury's report. Some staff could face criminal
charges, he said.

Nine inmates have been charged with first-degree murder in the beating death of
John Derek Chamberlain, 41. Chamberlain, a computer technician, died Oct. 5,
2006, awaiting trial on charges of possessing child pornography.

Laura Eimiller, a spokeswoman for the FBI, said federal investigators and a
prosecutor from the U.S. Attorney's Office would meet soon with sheriff's
officials to discuss the request.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 15, 2008 Friday

Farmworker plan attacked by all sides

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Local; State; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 859 words


A broad range of activists - from opponents of illegal immigration to farmworker
rights advocates - are questioning a new Bush administration proposal aimed at
making it easier for farmers to legally recruit laborers from other countries.

And even the farmers themselves have problems with the proposal.

A global campaign is under way to stop the proposal, the latest attempt to crack
down on illegal immigration in the wake of Congress' failure last summer to
approve an immigration bill.

Opponents fear some farmers - attracted to the potential cost savings outlined
in the proposal - may abuse the system as well as mistreat foreign workers, who
they say would be at the farmers' mercy or risk deportation.

"We are doing the best we can to sound the alarms that this is a really bad
proposal that needs to be stopped," said Erik Nicholson, director of guest
worker programs for the United Farm Workers union.

Under the proposal, the departments of Homeland Security and Labor would ease
complicated requirements that make employers prove they've exhausted their
efforts to hire Americans before they could turn to the nation's 20-year-old
H-2A visa program.

The visa program was designed to alleviate a shortage of authorized farmworkers
during harvest season, something federal leaders say is clearly the case
considering up to 800,000 of the nation's 1.8 million farmworkers are believed
to be in the country illegally.

The proposal could have a significant effect on California's $32 billion
agriculture industry, which employs more than 450,000 laborers - with as many as
70 percent believed to be working illegally.

For years, though, the stringent requirements for the H-2A program have resulted
in little use of the program, with only 75,000 visas - roughly 4 percent of the
total farm laborer workforce - issued nationwide last year.

The hope, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Labor Secretary
Elaine Chao said last week when they announced the proposal, is that farmers
will use the visa program instead of employing illegal immigrants, many of whom
use bogus identification documents.

"There simply are not enough U.S. workers to fill the hundreds of thousands of
agricultural jobs that are available in this country," Chao said.

To qualify for the visas, any immigrants already in the United States illegally
must first return to their home countries to complete applications at American
consulates.

The prospect of farmers assembling a new workforce scares Eleuterio Salvador,
27, who immigrated into the country illegally from Mexico and now works in
fields throughout the Salinas Valley.

He believes thousands of people - both illegal immigrants and those authorized
to work in the country - could be hurt by the program.

"It's nothing more than another way to keep workers down and to control them,"
said Salvador, who is married with two young children.

The proposal is now undergoing a 45-day public review during which federal
officials will take comments into consideration before they determine whether
the changes should go into effect before the summer harvest.

The changes would reduce the red tape farmers now face, including eliminating a
requirement that farmers first go to state labor offices repeatedly to prove
that they're trying to recruit legal workers.

Laborers who are granted visas in their home countries can legally come into the
United States to work for less than a year.

Chertoff and Chao said a system would be created to make sure the program isn't
violated, including monitoring H-2A employers and meting out steeper fines if
the rules are broken.

But one of the biggest problems opponents have with the proposal is a new wage
formula for H-2A visa holders that opponents say doesn't require farmers to pay
minimum wage and instead uses a new, potentially lower rate that would be set
regionally.

Bruce Goldstein of Farmworker Justice in Washington, D.C., said he fears the
program could result in an overall decrease of wages for all farmworkers.

And Jack King, who oversees national affairs for the California Farm Bureau,
said farmers also are wary.

King wonders whether the changes in the visa program also will account for
pre-harvest needs, which, depending on the crop, include brief hiring spikes for
the pruning and thinning of trees.

He also would like farmers to be able to share visa-holders, so workers could
jump from employer to employer - and harvest to harvest - throughout a season.

Instead of tweaking the visa program, King said, Congress should reconsider the
agricultural guest-worker legislation that was a part of the failed immigration
package. That legislation would have created a pathway toward citizenship for
farmworkers already in the country.

But while Bob Dane of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
calls for tighter border enforcement and tougher immigration laws, suggested the
proposal was a step in the right direction. He cautioned that progress in the
fight against illegal immigration shouldn't come at the cost of displacing
American workers.

"We're going to keep an eye on this," Dane said.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday

National News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News

LENGTH: 505 words


NEW YORK

Driver's license deal

applies to immigrants

The Bush administration and New York cut a deal Saturday to create a new
generation of super-secure driver's licenses for U.S. citizens, but also allow
illegal immigrants to get a version.

New York is the fourth state to reach an agreement on federally approved secure
licenses, after Arizona, Vermont and Washington. The issue is pressing for
border states, where new and tighter rules are soon to go into effect for
crossings.

The Arizona deal announced in August does not contemplate issuing licenses to
illegal immigrants, said Jeanine L'Ecuyer, a spokeswoman for Arizona Gov. Janet
Napolitano.

HAWAII

Military gives results

of anti-missile test

The military shot down a Scud-type missile in another successful test of a new
technology meant to knock down ballistic missiles in their final minute of
flight, the Missile Defense Agency said Saturday.

A ship off Kauai fired a target missile at 9:15 p.m. Hawaii Standard Time
Friday, or 6:15 a.m. PDT Saturday. Minutes later, soldiers with the U.S. Army's
6th Air Defense Artillery Brigade launched an interceptor missile from Kauai
that destroyed the target over the Pacific, according to the agency.

The military says it already can shoot down missiles in their last stage of
flight by using Patriot anti-missile batteries. The Terminal High Altitude Area
Defense system would be able to protect larger areas than the Patriot system
because it intercepts targets at a higher altitude.

OHIO

Antioch College delays

decision on closure

Antioch College board members postponed a decision Saturday on whether to
reverse their decision to temporarily close the college, telling about 200
alumni, faculty and students that they'll continue debating for several more
days.

"We are dealing with very complex, longstanding matters of critical importance
and we simply need more time to deliberate" said Art Zucker, the chairman of the
board of trustees.

The private 155-year-old liberal arts college announced in June that because of
declining enrollments, heavy dependence on tuition and a small endowment, it
would close after the spring term, reorganize and reopen in 2012.

KENTUCKY

Staph infection closes

entire school district

An eastern Kentucky school district with one confirmed case of
antibiotic-resistant staph infection plans to shut down all 23 of its schools
Monday, affecting about 10,300 students, to disinfect the facilities.

The project will involve disinfecting classrooms, restrooms, cafeterias,
hallways, locker rooms, buses and even external areas such as playgrounds and
sports fields, said Roger Wagner, superintendent of Pike County schools.

"We're not closing schools because there's been a large number of breakouts, but
as a preventive measure," Wagner said.

One Pike County student was diagnosed in September with MRSA, or
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. The bacterial strain can be treated
with other antibiotics, but without treatment it can be deadly.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News

LENGTH: 502 words


Republican governor

loses in Kentucky voting

Kentucky Gov. Ernie Fletcher, a Republican whose lone term was dogged by a
hiring scandal, lost badly Tuesday despite an election-eve effort to woo
conservative voters by displaying the Ten Commandments in the state Capitol.

In Mississippi, Gov. Haley Barbour, the only politician to come out of Hurricane
Katrina looking good, easily defeated a Democratic challenger Tuesday to win a
second term.

In other races, Philadelphia elected Michael Nutter as the new mayor on his
promises to reduce gun violence and clean up the city, Baltimore made Sheila
Dixon its first black woman elected mayor, and Pittsburgh decided to keep the
youngest big-city mayor in the nation, 27-year-old Luke Ravenstahl.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Border crackdown leads

to fewer apprehensions

A large increase in Border Patrol agents, additional fencing and expanded
prosecution of illegal border-crossers contributed to a 20 percent drop in
apprehension of undocumented migrants this year at the U.S.-Mexico frontier,
immigration officials announced Tuesday.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said the figure signaled progress
in disrupting illegal immigration flows - a key goal of the Bush
administration's overall immigration strategy.

But critics and experts said the border remains dangerously porous and the
numbers do not provide a full picture of illegal activity. Furthermore, they
said there is no evidence that the buildup is deterring immigrants.

Along the Southwest border, apprehensions over the past year decreased in almost
every area - most dramatically in Yuma, Ariz., and Del Rio, Texas, where arrests
fell by more than 45 percent. Near Tucson, the country's busiest illegal
immigration corridor, apprehensions dropped 4 percent, from 392,074 to 378,239,
according to recently released data for the 2007 fiscal year, which ended Sept.
30.

Overall, apprehensions decreased from 1,071,972 to 858,638, reaching the lowest
point in five years.

Study: Sex not delayed

in abstinence programs

Programs that focus exclusively on abstinence have not been shown to affect
teenagers' sexual behavior, although they are eligible for tens of millions of
dollars in federal grants, according to a study released by a non-partisan group
that seeks to reduce teen pregnancies.

"At present there does not exist any strong evidence that any abstinence program
delays the initiation of sex, hastens the return to abstinence or reduces the
number of sexual partners" among teenagers, the study concluded.

The report, which was based on a review of research into teen sexual behavior,
was being released today by the non-partisan National Campaign to Prevent Teen
and Unplanned Pregnancy.

The study found more comprehensive sex education programs were having "positive
outcomes" including teenagers "delaying the initiation of sex, reducing the
frequency of sex, reducing the number of sexual partners and increasing condom
or contraceptive use."

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday

Dems in Las Vegas debate likely to avoid immigration

BYLINE: By David Lightman McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 453 words


WASHINGTON - Democratic presidential candidates are likely to sound similar
tonight at their Las Vegas debate when they discuss illegal immigration - if
they talk much about it at all.

They all pretty much call for tougher border enforcement and providing a path to
citizenship, but they've been downplaying the issue for months, even though it's
one of the hottest controversies in the land.

Democratic analysts say that's a smart strategy. Republicans counter that
Democrats are afraid of the issue, which could split the party's liberal wing
and Hispanics from its blue-collar supporters.

Independent analysts aren't sure who's right.

"People are torn. They know they need immigrants (to make the economy hum), but
many also fear the browning of America," said Ken Fernandez, an assistant
professor of political science at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas.

The major Democratic contenders' debate - on CNN at 5 p.m. PST - takes place in
a crucial early-voting caucus state where undocumented workers are a major
concern. Yet Democratic campaigns aren't jumping at the chance to highlight
immigration. They're more eager to emphasize issues that they think are higher
on their voters' agendas, notably health care, education, the war on terrorism
and the economy.

Democratic campaigns also are calculating that once the party nominations are
decided, probably early next year, their party's detailed, comprehensive
approaches to giving undocumented aliens a path to citizenship will look good
next to Republicans' demands simply to get ultra-tough with anyone who's in the
country illegally.

"Republicans should be terrified," said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New
Democrat Network. "The positions most of their candidates are taking now will
make it very difficult for them to win the presidency."

Republicans counter that it's Democrats who should be frightened.

"Look at how all the Republicans, except for John McCain, are talking tough.
That's because they've been on the trail and are talking to folks," said Alan
Moore, press secretary for Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., whose White House bid is
built around his get-tough-with-immigrants proposals.

Democrats are making two political calculations on immigration.

One is that their comprehensive, arguably more tolerant approach will help woo
Hispanic voters, who could make up an estimated 10 percent of next year's
electorate. They've been straying on the presidential level for the past two
elections. President Bush, a former Texas governor, appealed not only to
regional pride but also to Hispanics' deep desire for education restructuring,
and won about 40 percent of the Latino vote in 2004.

Democrats think the GOP will be fortunate to get half that next year.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday

S.J. will watch ID card test

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 753 words


San Jose is taking a hard look at San Francisco's plan to offer city ID cards to
illegal immigrants, and at least one top city official is taking notes, too.

Vice Mayor David Cortese said the program - which is scheduled to get rolling in
August - could make sense for a city like San Jose, where it's estimated that
nearly 10 percent of the 970,000 residents are here illegally.

"The note to self at the time was, 'Dave, take a look at this ordinance,' " he
recalled after he learned of the ID program, which primarily aims to provide
illegal immigrants with proof of identity for most facets of municipal business,
such as library services and police stops.

The cards, complete with addresses and photos, will cost $15 for adults, with
discounts for those considered low-income.

While Cortese said no one on the council has introduced such a program, he hopes
San Jose officials monitor San Francisco's program as a test case, keeping an
eye on any problems or unexpected costs that may unfold.

Specifically, Cortese said, he wants to make sure San Francisco's cards do not
become an unwitting weapon for federal immigration authorities.

The ID card program - the second of its kind in the country, after New Haven,
Conn. - is perhaps the biggest piece of San Francisco's efforts to offer a safe
haven for illegal immigrants, which includes prohibiting city employees and
police from asking anyone about immigration status. Many other cities in the Bay
Area, including San Jose, also offer some of those safe-haven protections to
illegal immigrants.

If San Jose were to offer such a program, Cortese said, it could be used to help
settle, among other things, school enrollment debates. In the Evergreen
neighborhood recently, there was a flare-up over boundaries and whether parents
were enrolling children into the correct schools. ID cards, he said, would give
a voice to parents who might not otherwise speak up to prove they lived within
the desired boundaries.

Even if the council eventually shows interest, the biggest obstacle at this
point appears to be money. San Jose is facing a $25 million budget shortfall
next year, and an ID program could cost millions. Already in San Francisco some
say the program, forecast to cost $500,000, could wind up costing as much as $3
million.

In the meantime, Mayor Chuck Reed's spokeswoman, Michelle McGurk, points to the
city's acceptance of the Mexican government's matricula consular card as an
alternative. Mexicans make up San Jose's largest concentration of immigrants.

The city council began accepting the matricula consular about five years ago,
just as the card - issued by the Mexican government to Mexican citizens living
anywhere in the world - became increasingly controversial.

Opponents argued at the time that the cards could easily be forged, and that
there was no way for officials in the United States to ensure their legitimacy.
The cards have since been improved, with security features added, in part to
appease those critics.

The Mexican government has issued more than 6 million cards in the United
States, with several banks and at least 1,000 cities accepting them as valid
proof of identification.

"Anything that helps bring immigrants out of the shadows is more than welcomed,"
said Mexican Embassy spokesman Ricardo Alday, adding that the number of entities
accepting the cards continues to increase.

Since 2002, San Jose's Mexican Consulate has issued more than 193,000 cards - an
amount that Deputy Consul General José Loreto says speaks volumes about the
importance of having an ID card.

"Things that are common, things that most people take for granted every day -
libraries, banks - can't be used by other people because they don't have IDs,"
he said.

But no other countries issue ID cards that are as widely accepted as the
matricula consular. And that's one reason why advocates say municipal and state
governments need to step in and offer their own ID programs.

For instance, more than 30 percent of the San Jose population is Asian, with
national estimates showing that about 9 percent of the population is
undocumented.

Although Cortese favors exploring a municipal card in San Jose, he said a state
card would be better. But the pitch to provide state IDs to undocumented
immigrants has never made it off Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's desk. In the
meantime, Cortese said, cities should step in.

"It's something to consider," he said. "Doing nothing is not the solution right
now."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 370 words


MASSACHUSETTS

Romney fires landscaper

over illegal immigrants

Republican Mitt Romney, ridiculed by rival presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani
for employing illegal immigrants at his home, said Tuesday that he had fired the
landscaper for his suburban Boston home after learning for a second time about
undocumented workers laboring on the property.

Romney termed the recurrence "disappointing and inexcusable." The company,
Community Lawn Service of Chelsea, Mass., did not immediately return a call from
the Associated Press seeking comment.

The former Massachusetts governor has made combating illegal immigration a core
theme of his White House run.

FLORIDA

Space shuttle Atlantis

poised for launch

The space shuttle Atlantis is poised for a Thursday launching to the
International Space Station on an 11-day mission that will make the orbital
outpost more international.

NASA officials said Tuesday that the Atlantis and its crew of seven were ready
for a liftoff Thursday afternoon as the space station passes over the Kennedy
Space Center in Florida.

A countdown that began Monday has gone without incident, and the weather
forecast is close to ideal, the officials said.

The principal goal of the mission is to add the European Space Agency's new
Columbus laboratory to the growing station. The laboratory, which is 23 feet
long and 15 feet in diameter, will significantly increase the station's research
capability and give Europeans a major foothold in space.

WASHINGTON

State fines Energy Dept.

for hazardous waste spill

Washington state fined the U.S. Department of Energy $500,000 on Tuesday for a
radioactive hazardous waste spill at the nation's most contaminated nuclear
site.

The spill occurred July 27, when workers at south-central Washington's Hanford
nuclear reservation were pumping waste from an underground tank. They tried to
unblock a pump by running it in reverse, but 85 gallons of waste spilled onto
the ground.

"Before the spill was discovered, a series of poor decisions put workers in
grave danger from exposure to the tank waste and vapors," Jane Hedges, manager
of the state Department of Ecology's Nuclear Waste Program, said in a news
release.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 627 words


COLORADO

Rep. Tancredo set to end

run for White House

Republican Rep. Tom Tancredo, whose forceful opposition to illegal immigration
vaulted him to national prominence, plans to announce he is abandoning his
long-shot bid for the presidency, a person close to Tancredo said Wednesday.

The five-term Colorado congressman planned to make the announcement at a news
conference today.

Tancredo has polled at the back of the nine-person GOP field. He has run TV ads
that link lax border security to terrorism, rape and other crimes.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

After two years, interim

ICE director confirmed

The Senate on Wednesday confirmed Julie Myers as director of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, two years after President Bush appointed her to the
position amid questions about her qualifications to lead the government's
second-largest law enforcement agency.

Myers was among more than 30 people whose appointments were approved by a voice
vote of the Senate as it concluded its session.

Bush had used a recess appointment in 2005 to put Myers, then 36, in charge of
ICE, the branch of the Homeland Security Department that enforces immigration
laws, when the Senate appeared unlikely to confirm her. Although she was a
former Treasury official and assistant U.S. attorney, lawmakers debated whether
she had enough experience to lead the agency.

Critics also noted her personal connections within the Bush administration. She
was engaged - and is now married - to John Wood, who was chief of staff to
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and now is the U.S. attorney in
Kansas City, Mo. Retired Air Force Gen. Richard B. Myers, the former chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is her uncle.

Myers was Chertoff's chief of staff when he led the Justice Department's
criminal division. However, her appointment in 2005 came after Hurricane
Katrina, which brought criticism over the experience of those handling the
federal response to the disaster.

Her appointment ran into trouble again this fall when she gave the "most
original" costume award to a white employee who came to the agency's Halloween
party dressed as an escaped prisoner with dreadlocks and darkened skin. The
incident drew complaints of racial insensitivity and elicited an apology from
Myers.

KANSAS

Suspect in death of teen

is arrested in Mexico

A man suspected in the slaying of a college student who led a secret life as an
Internet porn performer was arrested Wednesday in Mexico, authorities said.

Israel Mireles, 24, was arrested on a Butler County homicide warrant at a
relative's home in Melchor Muzquiz, Mexico, about 70 miles southwest of Eagle
Pass, Texas.

Mireles has been charged with capital murder, rape and aggravated criminal
sodomy in the death of 18-year-old Emily Sander, Butler County prosecutor Jan
Satterfield said.

MISSOURI

Giuliani goes to hospital

with flu-like symptoms

Republican Rudy Giuliani was admitted to a hospital Wednesday night for flu-like
symptoms, his campaign said. The former New York City mayor felt the symptoms
while campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination in Missouri, and
they soon became worse. The mayor decided to go to a St. Louis hospital and
spend the night there.

"The symptoms worsened as the day wore on and shortly after taking off from
Chesterfield, Missouri, for New York the mayor became uncomfortable enough that
our plane returned to the airport in Chesterfield," campaign spokeswoman Katie
Levinson said. "To be on the safe side, the mayor consulted with his personal
physician in New York and made the decision to go to the Barnes Jewish Hospital
in St. Louis for routine tests."

Giuliani will decide his next step Thursday morning. He had no scheduled
appointments for the day

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 21, 2007 Friday

Immigration: Presidential candidates walk fine line

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News

LENGTH: 992 words


Perhaps no moment in the presidential campaign has underlined the complexities
of the immigration debate better than last month's war of words between
Republicans Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani.

During a live GOP debate, Romney accused Giuliani of making New York City a safe
haven for illegal immigrants, while the former New York City mayor said his
opponent employed them at his Massachusetts home.

The clash exposed the dilemma the candidates face: They can't afford to look
soft on illegal immigration, yet they can't ignore that millions of illegal
immigrants are a pivotal part of the American workforce.

Immigration continues to be one of the nation's most contentious issues, with
Congress failing to pass a comprehensive immigration bill in June, and
presidential candidates trying to strike the right balance.

"The ultimate trick is straddling the fence while standing firm," said Jack
Pitney, a political science professor at Claremont McKenna College and a former
Republican Party official.

Republicans are taking an aggressive approach by, among other things, proposing
to deny federal funds to cities that do not enforce immigration laws. Democrats,
meanwhile, are trying to appear neither too soft nor too harsh, proposing plans
to secure borders while creating paths toward citizenship.

Huge interest

A recent Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll shows just how significant the
immigration issue has become, with 81 percent of Americans saying they believe
it's important.

That same poll also underscores the issue's divisiveness. One in three say most
social services should be denied to illegal immigrants, while three in five
support giving them a path to citizenship with certain caveats.

Because of that, candidates are learning that discussing the issue can be a
political minefield.

Democrat Hillary Clinton hit a snag in late October when she was asked if she
supported New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer's now-dead proposal to give driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants.

The New York senator stumbled without giving a direct answer before coming out
firmly against the plan a few weeks later - a gap experts say could have made
supporters of an ID program question her sincerity.

Her main opponent, Illinois Sen. Barack Obama, accused Clinton of flip-flopping.
He has since come out in favor of driver's licenses, distinguishing his position
from Clinton's, but risking the loss of votes from more moderate party members.

Pitney said the immigration issue is one reason Republican Sen. John McCain of
Arizona slipped in the polls after coming out strongly last summer in support of
a crumbling immigration compromise plan.

The bipartisan compromise, which was pushed by President Bush and fell apart
after a June test vote, called for a pathway to citizenship for illegal
immigrants.

Republicans, wanting a tougher approach to end illegal immigration, pulled away
from McCain. He is now trailing former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and Giuliani
in national polls.

One drops out

U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo was among the most vocal opponents of illegal
immigration, but the long-shot candidate from Colorado dropped out of the GOP
race Thursday.

Huckabee, who has recently become a stronger contender for the GOP nomination,
has articulated one of the clearest stances against illegal immigration, in
sharp contrast to Romney and Giuliani.

In fact, Giuliani, who once set policies that barred New York city officials
from reporting illegal immigrants, only recently released his views in a
campaign commercial airing in the East Coast.

In the commercial, Giuliani said the nation needs leadership to fix the
problems, including building a border fence, training Border Patrol agents and
allowing illegal immigrants to pursue citizenship after they learn to speak
English as well as U.S. history.

Giuliani's original stance on illegal immigration helped fuel his dispute with
Romney, which came to a head during the live CNN/YouTube debate in St.
Petersburg, Fla., late last month.

The two didn't hold back, with Romney saying Giuliani promoted illegal
immigration by turning New York City into a sanctuary for illegal immigrants,
while Giuliani called Romney's home a "sanctuary mansion."

Romney, who has used immigration as a key point in his campaign for presidency,
later fired his landscaper, saying he learned that the landscaper employed
illegal immigrants.

Analysts and political commentators questioned whether Romney could effectively
overhaul immigration if he didn't know what was going on in his own back yard.

Such disputes can hurt candidates, said political analyst Tony Quinn, co-editor
of the California Target Book, a non-partisan analysis of state politics. The
exchange focused more on the candidates discrediting each other than on
proposing solutions.

Voters want someone who can solve problems across party lines, especially when
it comes to immigration, an issue that is becoming more heated in other parts of
the country that have seen increasing numbers of immigrants.

States like North Carolina, for example, experienced a five-fold increase from
1990 to 2000, U.S. Census data shows.

There has also been a growth of Ku Klux Klan membership in cities like
Charlotte, which has felt the brunt of the wave, according to the Charlotte
Observer.

Republican candidates, Quinn said, risk having their tough stands on illegal
immigration construed as anti-Latino.

More than half of the estimated illegal immigrants living this country are of
Latino descent, with the majority of them coming from Mexico, statistics show.

Latinos - who comprise about 15 percent of the U.S. population of 301 million
and about 9 percent of the electorate - could make a difference if they turn out
against Republicans.

In the end, Pitney said, "Immigration is about who we are as a people. It will
help determine what each party is about. It forces each side to determine what
it is to be an American."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 12, 2008 Saturday

Senator again pushes licenses to drive for illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Steve Geissinger Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Politics

LENGTH: 465 words


SACRAMENTO - A Los Angeles lawmaker will move ahead - once again - with a bill
allowing illegal immigrants in California to obtain driver's licenses, following
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's release Friday of security
regulations for the REAL ID Act.

Democratic Sen. Gil Cedillo's legislation has been vetoed repeatedly in past
years, with Republican Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger arguing that the state should
wait until the federal government adopted the new security standards to make
licenses more tamper-proof.

Cedillo said he was "pleased with the regulations" since they maintain "the
option to issue driving-only licenses for the undocumented." Such second-tier
licenses could not be used for boarding a plane or entering a federal building.

But just because the new REAL ID Act regulations allow for such licenses doesn't
mean Schwarzenegger will embrace the idea. Sabrina Lockhart, a spokeswoman for
the governor, said Friday that the governor is not inclined to sign such a bill
until another hurdle is cleared: comprehensive immigration reform - an issue
that has stymied Congress.

"The governor has made it clear there are two concerns before moving ahead,"
Lockhart said.

The new regulations are designed to be implemented in phases. The first phase is
set to go into effect in May, but California Department of Motor Vehicles
officials, citing security and cost concerns, have asked that implementation be
delayed until December 2009 in California.

U.S. officials are allowing such delays in implementation because of states
concerned about the nearly $4 billion cost, which the federal government will
share to some undetermined extent.

"We will be looking at the impact in order to make recommendations on what is in
the best interest for California," said DMV spokesman Mike Marando. "During this
time, there will be no change for motorists."

Authorities were purposely vague about how the new regulations will make
licenses more tamper-proof. The most obvious change to motorists is that when
they apply for a new license, their photo will be taken at the outset, not at
the end of the process. That way, should someone be rejected for failure to
prove identity and citizenship, the applicant's photo would be kept on file and
checked in the future if that person attempted to apply again.

The act also states that in May anyone seeking to board an airplane or enter a
federal building will have to present a REAL ID-compliant driver's license. That
requirement, however, won't apply to Californians or others in states that have
requested and received a waiver.

"California driver's licenses and identification cards," Marando said, "will
continue to be honored for boarding commercial aircraft."

Contact Steve Geissinger at sgeissinger@bayareanewsgroup.com or (916) 447-9302.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday

Thousands of Vietnamese living illegally in U.S. face deportation

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 738 words


In two months, the U.S. government will begin deporting more than 8,000 illegal
Vietnamese immigrants as the result of a long-sought repatriation agreement
signed Tuesday by Washington and Hanoi.

The pact deals with a once-verboten subject in the emigre community - the forced
return of Vietnamese nationals to their communist homeland - and it underscores
how close Vietnam and the United States have become.

In addition, the muted reaction Tuesday in San Jose's 100,000-strong Vietnamese
community illustrated how much emigre politics have changed in the once rigidly
anti-communist community.

Although some worried that the communist regime might retaliate against
repatriated emigres, most Vietnamese-Americans interviewed Tuesday seemed to
view the agreement as a natural outcome of the growing ties between two former
enemies.

"It's normal," said Hoang Co Dinh of San Jose, a member of the Vietnam
pro-democracy group Viet Tan.

Antoinette Haupt, a Palo Alto hairdresser who immigrated from Vietnam four years
before the Vietnam War ended in 1975, called the agreement a good step to
address illegal immigration.

"If you take illegals from one country, you should take them from all
countries," said Haupt, who in the past has joined demonstrations denouncing
Hanoi. "It has to be equal."

Under the renewable, five-year agreement signed in Hanoi by Vietnamese Foreign
Ministry officials and Julie L. Myers, assistant secretary for the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement can now
repatriate undocumented Vietnamese who have been ordered deported by an
immigration judge.

Most of the illegal immigrants - about 7,300 Vietnamese - have criminal
convictions that made them subject to deportation, according to the Department
of Homeland Security. Others overstayed visitors visas.

It was unclear Tuesday how many of the undocumented Vietnamese live in San Jose
and the rest of the Bay Area. But Santa Clara County has the second largest
concentration of Vietnamese in the country, so it's suspected that hundreds of
undocumented Vietnamese live here.

Many who were ordered deported were released on parole from immigration
detention. These include Vietnamese who completed jail time for crimes that made
them eligible for deportation. Although they were required to regularly report
to immigration officers, many were were able to establish semi-normal lives and
obtain work permits because they were in legal limbo.

A U.S. Supreme Court decision prevented the federal government from holding the
undocumented immigrants in detention for more than six months.

The repatriation of the Vietnamese has been in limbo for more than a decade
since the United States stopped admitting refugees from Vietnam in the early
1990s.

Even with a judge's order in hand, the U.S. government was unable to deport
undocumented Vietnamese because Hanoi refused to accept them. But as diplomatic
and economic ties grew since the United States lifted a trade embargo in 1994
and normalized relations a year later, discussions of repatriating undocumented
Vietnamese began in earnest.

"Agreements such as this are the building blocks of diplomacy," Myers said in a
news release. "This agreement allows us to carry out a judge's order to remove
individuals from our country in a safe and humane manner."

The U.S. government will pay for the cost of deporting the Vietnamese nationals,
a process that is expected to begin two months from now. About 6,400 have final
deportation orders, and an additional 1,668 are in deportation proceedings, said
Mike Keegan, a spokesman for ICE in Washington, D.C.

Loc Vu, a former colonel in the South Vietnam army who now runs a refugee
resettlement agency in San Jose, said he agrees that the United States is simply
trying to enforce its own immigration laws. But he expressed concern about the
treatment of those deported once in Vietnam.

"Maybe they will be welcomed at first," he said. "Then after a few months, who
knows?"

The deportation of the Vietnamese nationals will have a far-reaching impact on
the lives of their families. Many will leave behind children, parents, husbands
and wives who are U.S. citizens or living legally here.

"Does it really justify breaking up families?" said Diem Do, another member of
Viet Tan. "To me this is a very emotional issue. I look at this as more of a
humanitarian issue."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday

Illegal Vietnamese immigrants to be deported

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 81 words


DEPORTATION PROCEEDINGS

The renewable five-year agreement allows Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials to repatriate undocumented Vietnamese who have been ordered deported
by an immigration judge.

Most of the illegal immigrants - about 7,300 Vietnamese - have criminal
convictions that made them subject to deportation. Others overstayed visitor
visas.

The U.S. government will pay for the cost of deporting the Vietnamese nationals,
a process that is expected to begin in two months.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday

Schwarzenegger warns GOP against exploiting immigration concerns

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 700 words


Republicans love to talk about immigrants.

Rudy Giuliani has promised to end illegal immigration in three years. Mike
Huckabee has a plan that calls for 12 million illegal immigrants to leave the
country in 120 days. And Mitt Romney says things that please restrictionists,
and yet many can't figure out if he believes what he says.

Now for real insight, let's turn to a Republican who is also an immigrant. With
the California primary approaching on Feb. 5, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has
advice for Republican presidential hopefuls who intend to come to the Golden
State and exploit the immigration issue: Don't.

During a recent meeting with the editorial board of the San Diego Union-Tribune,
I asked the governor, who hasn't endorsed any of the candidates for the upcoming
primary, what advice he'd give them. Specifically, I wanted to know what he
thought about how some have been using the immigration issue to scare up votes.

"In a way, I understand why they're doing it," he said, "because when it comes
to close elections, it's all about winning. It's not about sending a good
message."

Schwarzenegger understands immigration better than just about any elected
official in the country, from a policy perspective and a personal one. And he
has a lot to say.

About the possibility that California might grant driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants: "It'll never happen. It'll never get past me because I made it very
clear that we have to have immigration reform" first and not address the problem
piecemeal.

About the fact that foreign workers have become a permanent part of the American
economy: "We have our domestic workers . . . but we fall short of the workers
(we need) on the farms, and in construction and other places."

About what that should mean for immigration reform: "We should have the right
for companies to go outside of the state, outside of the country . . . and find
those workers and bring them in on temporary worker permits."

That's the policy part of Schwarzenegger. I then asked the governor about
whether there wouldn't still be some people upset that these immigrants were
here - legally or not - because of the impact on the culture. At that point,
things got personal.

"I would say that there would always be a problem," he said. "There is always a
certain percentage of people who just don't like foreigners. But that's OK.
That's not the problem that we have right now. The problem we have right now is
that, every single day, you hear about illegals, people coming in here
illegally." That creates hostility, he said. Yet, unlike the nativists,
Schwarzenegger doesn't blame the immigrants themselves. Contrary to the popular
myth that illegal immigrants cut in line, the governor realizes that there is no
line - not if you're poor and from a country where the number of people who want
to come to the United States far exceeds the visa allotment.

"Those people didn't choose (to come illegally)," he said. "It's the only way
they can get in here. It's not like you can stand in line and wait a few days
and then you can get in. There's no way. There is a system that has been created
on purpose to look the other way and to bring them in because everyone knows
that we cannot function without them."

That dependence creates more hostility. Schwarzenegger encountered some of that
himself when he came to California more than 30 years ago, but not to the degree
he sees it today.

"I felt it a little bit in my own case," he said. "I felt a little bit of
prejudice, people saying 'What's the Nazi doing here?' and stuff like that. They
imitated my accent, and made jokes about it, and they came into the gym
sometimes and said, 'Heil Hitler'."

And so, he said, foreigners have to be aware that xenophobia is out there.
Government has the duty to devise a reasonable policy, he said. But newcomers
can also ease tensions by assimilating and "infiltrating into the American
society."

Schwarzenegger knows immigration. And it's a shame that, because of an outmoded
provision in the Constitution prohibiting anyone born on foreign soil from
running for president, he can't enter the race and put what he knows to good use
in this campaign - and for the good of the entire country.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday

Presidential election: Among GOP voters, ire over illegal immigration

BYLINE: By Julia Prodis Sulek Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; National; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 1074 words


ORANGE - In a state where illegal immigration is among the most important
Republican election issues, in one of the state's most Republican counties, a
battle has been raging in an Albertsons parking lot.

At Chapman Avenue and Hewes Street, dozens of day laborers - many of whom are
illegal immigrants - have been swarming mothers driving SUVs as they pull in to
buy groceries, fed-up locals complain. Women say they are nervous to drop off
laundry at the dry cleaners next door and men heading into the Ace Hardware are
reluctant to leave their tools in the back of their pickup trucks.

The night after Florida's Republican primary, many of these locals will be glued
to their TV sets tonight to watch the CNN-L.A. Times Republican debate broadcast
from the Reagan library in Simi Valley. They will be listening carefully for
what the candidates have to say about immigration, an issue that has become a
defining one for Republicans. They have taken an increasingly tougher stand on
the question as the campaign gets closer to California and more than 20 other
states on Super Tuesday.

Certainly, the immigration debate is a common California conversation, but here
in Orange, not far from where ex-Marine Jim Gilchrist founded the Minuteman
Project to send armed civilians to patrol the Mexican border, the words are more
amplified.

"As a local elected official, I'm extremely frustrated with the federal
government," said Republican Orange Mayor Carolyn Cavecche, who has led a
crackdown on the day laborer problem there. "And a lot of my friends are, too. I
run in a pretty conservative group of people, but a lot of people are getting
frustrated."

This is not the Orange County of TV's "Real Housewives," of the gated
communities and Lexus SUVs, of skinny jeans and long furs and Coco Chanels. This
is the Orange County of converging interstates, of minivans and post-war
bungalows settled by military families whose children went off to college and
came right back home to raise families.

The frustration over immigration is one the Republican candidates, especially,
are hoping will translate into an opportunity. A California Field Poll of GOP
voters last week showed illegal immigration ranked among the highest on the list
of election issues important to Republicans. California Democrats listed health
care on top. But immigration is still a critical issue throughout the state,
where 83 percent of all voters say they favor some kind of amnesty, if certain
rules are followed.

Over the course of the campaign, nearly all the GOP candidates have taken
increasingly hard-line stances on border security and amnesty. And it could be a
showdown issue between the two front-runners whose positions diverge the most -
former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney who opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants
and Arizona Sen. John McCain who favors a pathway to citizenship.

The Field Poll of California voters last week showed McCain and Romney in a
statistical dead heat. But more recent polls, taken before the Florida primary,
show McCain taking a stronger lead.

For Romney, Phyllis Beilharz might be an ideal voter. The day laborer issue in
the Albertsons parking lot has her steaming mad.

"It's a nuisance. It's uncomfortable. They stand close to your car. Sometimes
you're scared," said Beilharz, 70. "I hope they send them all back. The ones who
are citizens can stay, the ones who work hard."

Others say they can't even go to Friendly Donuts, across from Albertsons,
without elbowing their way through dozens of day laborers.

But Joaquin Ixmatlahua, 31, who stood in front of the doughnut shop this week,
says, "I'm only looking for work - no problems, no drugs - only looking for
work."

Still, at Ace Hardware across the street, "the ladies wouldn't come in during
the week by themselves" because of the loitering men, said store manager Dino
Quesada. "Would I like to see them all here legally? Yes. Are they paying income
taxes? No. I'm Mexican and it feels like they're taking advantage of the
system."

Despite his complaints, he does not plan to vote for a Republican. He's leaning
toward Barack Obama because "he has a big heart."

Many voters are waiting for tonight's debate to help clarify the candidates'
ever-shifting immigration positions.

McCain co-wrote the McCain-Kennedy immigration plan advocating a pathway to
citizenship for illegal immigrants already here. But as the campaign has
progressed, he has put more emphasis on beefing up border security.

Romney has staked out a strong "no amnesty" plan, yet his tough stand was
brought into question after voters learned that the landscaping company working
at his own home employed illegal immigrants. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee
and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani each took softer stands on illegal
immigration. Then, the issue became more intense on the campaign trail.

Southern California radio stations are airing advertisements this week for
Huckabee's new book, in which he advocates giving illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship. But that was printed before he accepted the endorsement of the
Minuteman Project's Gilchrist, and announced a new immigration plan that would
require illegal immigrants to leave the country and apply for citizenship later.

Giuliani, as New York mayor, had complimented illegal immigrants as "some of the
hardest working and most productive people in this city." But in an interview
last month, he said if he thought the illegal immigrants in New York could
realistically be deported, "I would have turned all the people over."

According to Mark DiCamillo of the Field Poll, tonight's debate "is going to be
very important. People's opinions might be mollified. Those opposed to amnesty -
maybe McCain will calm their fears. You have to wait and see."

The mayor of Orange will be watching.

She's put a police officer on patrol full time to go to where day laborers
gather and hired more code enforcers for the illegal boarding houses that rent
space to more than a dozen men at a time.

After the past month of extra enforcement and new regulations, the Albertsons
parking lot has mostly cleared out, but dozens still hang out at Friendly
Donuts.

"For me, it's like squeezing Jello. You know, what I did just put them in
someone else's town," Cavecche said. "I'm going to take care of my city. It's
what I was elected to do."

Now, she said, if only a new president would do the same.

Contact Julia Prodis Sulek at jsulek@mercurynews.com or (408)278-3409.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1/29/2008 - Orange, CA - Carolyn Cavecche, the Mayor of Orange, CA ,
drives past a group of day laborers gathered outside of a donut shop January 29,
2008. She says that complaints from the public about large groups of men
soliciting work in parking lots led to a city crackdown on day laborer
activities. Effective January 11, 2008 the ordinance outlawed, in part,
solicitation of work on private property without the owner's consent, and on any
public sidewalk that lacks on street. The city has established a Resource Center
where day laborers can solicit work if they register. The law imposes fines of
hundreds of dollars. Immigration is expected to be a major focus of many Orange
County voters in the upcoming Republican Presidential primary (Pauline
Lubens/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 18, 2008 Monday

Illegal emigres defy the image

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 1177 words


The Bay Area has a piece of the nation's fastest growing group of illegal
immigrants. But don't assume you know who they are.

Turning stereotypes on their head, a recent federal analysis of unauthorized
immigration says the most rapidly growing source of illegal immigration is India
- the same country whose engineers and programmers help power Google and other
Silicon Valley companies, whose doctors heal the Bay Area's sick, and whose
entrepreneurs and venture capitalists have become a force on both sides of the
international date line.

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security estimates that there are 270,000
unauthorized Indian natives in the United States - a 125 percent jump since
2000, the largest percentage increase of any nation with more than 100,000
illegal immigrants in the United States.

The number of undocumented Indians is dwarfed by the estimated 6.6 million
illegal residents from Mexico, according to the estimates from homeland
security's Office of Immigration Statistics. Yet, considering the high level of
education of many Indians, immigration experts say the federal report hints at a
new phenomenon: a high-skilled undocumented workforce to go along with the
nation's sizable numbers of low-skilled illegal workers.

If trends continue, within three years India would trail only Mexico, El
Salvador and Guatemala as a source of illegal immigration. Another national
immigration expert, Jeffrey S. Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center, estimates that
the number of illegal Indians is even higher, at 400,000 people.

Virtually all entered the United States legally but violated the terms of their
visas, say experts who study the nation's much maligned immigration system.

"How do you get in? You come across the border, or you arrive here with a visa,"
said Lindsay Lowell, policy director for the Institute for the Study of
International Migration at Georgetown University. "Indians aren't going to be
walking across the border like Mexicans."

Indians are among the most affluent ethnic groups in the United States, with a
median household income that is 62 percent higher than the figure for all U.S.
households.

Santa Clara County has the largest Indian-born population, and Alameda County
ranks fifth, among the nation's 3,141 counties, according to 2006 census data.
But there is no way to know what share of Bay Area Indian immigrants are
illegal.

The Census Bureau does not ask people about their immigration status, and the
Office of Immigration Statistics report did not provide state or local
estimates. Of the 2.5 million people of Indian ancestry living in the United
States, about 1 million are not U.S. citizens.

Federal officials calculated the number of illegal immigrants by using census
estimates of the total number of immigrants from individual countries, compiling
the total number of legal immigrants using federal immigration and
naturalization records, and then subtracting the number of legal residents from
the total immigrant population to determine the number of undocumented people.

It is certainly a minority of the local Indian community, however, and probably
a very small one. Half the people of Indian ancestry living in Santa Clara
County are already U.S. citizens, either by birth or naturalization, according
to census data. Thousands of others are legal permanent residents, or they are
here legally on student, tourist or work visas.

Asked about the number of illegal Indians in Silicon Valley, Banjit Singh, an
Indian-born taxi driver waiting for a fare at Mineta San Jose International
Airport, said, "Here, there is a little bit. But you go to another city or
state, like L.A. or New York, there are many illegal people." Drivers need to
show proof of citizenship or legal immigration status to get a taxi certificate.

But that doesn't mean the local number is insignificant. Local immigration
lawyers say that particularly among Indians, the ups and downs of Silicon
Valley's economy since 2001 are one reason why Indians have fallen out of legal
status.

"Most are bachelors; the way they get here is they have a job," Gabriel Jack, a
San Jose immigration lawyer, said of many of his Indian clients.

"They come here as professionals, most often in the H-1B program, and given the
fluctuations of Silicon Valley, the business climate, these guys lose their
jobs. They get laid off or they wager their hands on a start-up coming in," Jack
said. "The problem with the H-1B program is, you can't have any significant time
between jobs" without falling out of legal status.

Indians made up 44 percent of H-1B applicants in the 2005-06 fiscal year, five
times the number from second-place China, according to federal data.

Because an immigrant's status can be dependent on the status of a spouse, the
break-up of a marriage can also create an illegal immigrant.

Among Indians in the United States, "there has been a rapid increase in the
divorce rate. If they are on an H-1, maybe the wife is protected and maybe she
isn't," said Navneet Chugh, an immigration lawyer whose firm is based in Silicon
Valley and Los Angeles. "The guy is an engineer at HP or Cisco, and he goes home
on vacation, and his parents say, 'We have a girl for you.' And they get
married, and they come here and have all kinds of problems."

Another source is relatives from India who arrive for a visit on a tourist visa
and never go home.

"America is a very attractive country; everybody who comes here wants to stay,"
said Shah Peerally, a Silicon Valley immigration lawyer. "I can tell you right
now, there are nearly 1 billion people in India, of which maybe 800 million want
to come here."

The United States has deported slightly less than 500 Indians a year in recent
years. In the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, "we have substantially
expanded our effort to find visa violators," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman
for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The government, she said, pursues
cases based on public safety, rather than focusing on a specific country of
origin.

Silicon Valley companies such as Google say they need to recruit the world's
best talent to compete - and about one in 12 of Google's U.S. employees, roughly
900 people, are H-1B visa holders. "We have not seen major problems with
prospective candidates being out of status," said Adam Kovacevich, a Google
spokesman.

But immigration lawyers like Jack say there is such a backlog of people waiting
for green cards - the wait is up to seven years for skilled workers from India
as of this month - that an immigrant can still be waiting in line when even a
six-year H-1B visa expires.

That can result in an illegal, highly educated, Indian immigrant, they said.

Unless Congress reforms the immigration system, "we are going to see this
high-skilled, illegal workforce emerging," said Frank D. Bean, director of the
Immigration Research Center at the University of California-Irvine. "From a
narrow economic point of view, it might work. From a social justice, fairness
point of view, it's a time bomb."

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday

Migrants unlikely to end up in prison

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities;
Politics

LENGTH: 761 words


Countering widespread belief, a new report shows California's foreign-born
population - including illegal immigrants - makes up only a sliver of the
state's population of inmates.

The report by the Public Policy Institute of California, released Monday, also
suggests the foreign-born population, which makes up more than a third of the
state's adults, plays a disproportionately smaller role in serious crime.

"Crime, Corrections, and California: What Does Immigration Have to Do with It?"
gives one of the clearest glimpses yet into the impact of immigrants and
immigration on the state's justice system.

It also aims to dispel the perception that cities with large foreign-born
populations are criminal hot beds, with several California cities showing a dip
in police activity amid recent immigration waves.

But while the findings are surprising, they don't account for a complete
relationship between immigration and crime.

The report did not, for example, examine petty crimes such as shoplifting and
vandalism, which wouldn't necessarily result in jail time. The findings also do
not take into consideration the effect that the children of immigrants might
have on crime.

Kristin Butcher, one of the report's co-authors, said the low rate of
incarceration could be linked to U.S. immigration policies, which call for
careful weeding out of visa applicants and deporting illegal immigrants accused
of serious crimes such as gang involvement and murder.

"The type of people who are immigrating are less likely to commit crimes because
they're here for jobs," said Butcher, a professor at Wellesley College and a
fellow for the non-partisan policy research group.

The report underscores what Salvador Bustamante has been telling people for
several years about the foreign-born population, and illegal immigrants in
particular.

"A lot of people have painted immigrants as the criminal element in our society,
and that isn't the case," said Bustamante, Northern California director of
Strengthening Our Lives, a statewide non-profit that works to empower
immigrants.

He said immigrants come to the United States to work, often trying to stay under
the radar of authorities and away from criminal activity to avoid deportation.

"The more we can do to dispel the myths that have been created about immigrants,
will help with immigrant rights and immigration reform," he said.

The findings don't sit well with Bill Cole, an advocate for more stringent laws
to make sure illegal immigrants who commit crimes are deported.

Cole's ex-wife, Sara Cole, was hit by drunken driver Lucio Rodriguez, an illegal
immigrant previously convicted of driving drunk, last September, nearly severing
her legs. Rodriguez has since pleaded guilty to drunken-driving charges.

"What we're trying to do is make the community safer," Bill Cole said.

The PPIC report obtained its findings by examining the state's foreign-born
population, which includes anyone born outside the United States, regardless of
their naturalization status, Butcher said. It then focused on men ages 18 to 40
in jails, institutions and state prisons, drawing comparisons with their
U.S.-born counterparts using census data for California.

While acknowledging that staying in the country illegally is a crime in itself,
Butcher and co-author Anne Morrison Piehl focused on activities that both
foreign-born and U.S.-born adults can commit.

Among their findings:

Foreign-born men make up about 35 percent of the state's adult male population,
but they are roughly 17 percent of the state's overall prison inmates.

U.S.-born men are jailed in state prisons at a rate more than three times higher
than foreign-born men and are 10 times more likely to land behind bars.

Male Mexican nationals ages 18 to 40 - those more likely to have entered the
country illegally - are more than eight times less likely than their U.S.-born
counterparts to be imprisoned.

Those who entered the country when they were 1 year old or younger make up about
0.8 percent of those institutionalized.

The low crime rate among foreign-born Californians can be seen in the crime
tallies for cities such as Burbank, Glendale and Norwalk, which large
proportions of the state's immigrant population call home.

From 2000 to 2005, those cities experienced crime dips far greater than cities
with smaller immigrant populations.

Butcher said the report shows, among other things, that "spending more money to
increase penalties against criminal immigrants will have little impact on public
safety."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday

SJSU students, legal and illegal, plan grass-roots voter registration campaign

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 793 words


Jose Ruiz is like many college students.

He's outspoken. He's politically active. And, most important, he wants to make
sure as many people as possible hit the polls come Election Day.

Why? Because he can't. Ruiz is an illegal immigrant.

Buoyed by Super Tuesday's record Latino voter turnout, a San Jose State
University student group - made up of both legal and illegal residents - is
planning a widespread, grass-roots campaign to register voters, especially those
who can speak for them at the polls.

"I don't need to live in the shadows anymore," said Ruiz, a 24-year-old SJSU
student whose mother brought him from Mexico on a tourist visa when he was a
child.

But the campaign is already sparking some controversy, with immigrant advocates
applauding the students' efforts and opponents arguing their efforts could have
grave consequences for U.S. citizens. No matter the reaction, though, it's
another step forward for the group known as Student Advocates for Higher
Education, which has challenged lawmakers to pass a bill granting certain
illegal immigrants a pathway to citizenship if they graduate from college.

Group members have repeatedly made headlines during the past year. First they
took part in a weeklong fast last summer to draw attention to the Development,
Relief and Education for Alien Minors (or DREAM) Act, prompting conservative
radio host Michael Savage to suggest they starve to death. They also rallied
outside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office to draw attention to a failed
congressional vote on the DREAM Act.

Such activism is nothing new, but experts say this movement, led by illegal
immigrants enrolled in college, is the latest phenomenon to grow from marches
held across the country in 2006 to call attention to immigration reform.

It's those marches that experts believe may have played a role in the
unprecedented number of Latinos who turned out to vote in California's
Democratic presidential primary Feb. 5.

"It encouraged and politicized people," said Stanford University history
Professor Al Camarillo, who is considered an expert on Latino issues.

Anyone can lead a voter registration drive, academics have noted, but it's
unusual for those who are legally barred from participating in democracy to take
such strides to play a part in the electoral process.

"They didn't have a say when they were brought" into the country, said Saundra
Sifuentes, 28, a paralegal at a downtown San Jose law firm, "They should be able
to have a voice now - even if it's through other people."

Carol Joyal, chairwoman of the Immigration Reform Network of Silicon Valley, a
group that's calling for stepped-up enforcement of immigration laws, disagrees.

She takes particular issue with the effects of illegal immigration on the
country, especially crowded classrooms and congested roadways.

"They're looking at the benefit for themselves rather than what's best for the
country," Joyal said of the students.

The 20-member San Jose State student group is hoping to sign up at least 5,000
new voters the next few months - a small amount, but one that members say could
play a role in the fight for the White House.

And more important, they hope to help elect a president who will move the DREAM
Act forward after years of revisions and delays.

The group has not endorsed any candidates, but Democratic presidential hopefuls
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama have supported the DREAM Act.

"If this passes, we're done" with our plight, said Alba Cardenas, a 23-year-old
San Jose State student whose mother brought her into the United States from
Mexico as a child and who didn't learn her legal status until she was a
teenager.

The Migration Policy Institute estimates that passing the DREAM Act could make
as many as 360,000 18- to 24-year-olds eligible for conditional legal status
and, if they stay out of trouble for three years after college graduation, for
citizenship.

Nine states, led by California, allow illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition
as long as they meet several requirements, including that they've attended high
school for at least three years and graduated.

It's unknown how many illegal immigrants pay in-state tuition in California,
officials said, because the information isn't tracked to protect students'
privacy.

Because of their status, the students are not eligible for financial aid, and
most must earn tuition - more than $2,000 a semester - on their own.

Ruiz and Cardenas don't hold their status against their parents, saying their
time in the United States has given them opportunities they wouldn't have had in
Mexico.

"You can't just live in a place and not became a part of it," Ruiz said. "If I
were still in Mexico, I wouldn't be who I am today."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 8, 2008 Tuesday

LETTERS: The sentence in Cole case is a travesty

BYLINE: From the readers of the Los Gatos Weekly-Times

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Los Gatos; Communities

LENGTH: 282 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

I would have believed that the report "Driver who hit Sara Cole gets five years"
(April 1) and the editorial of the same day were April Fool's Day pranks were
the subject matter not as serious and tragic.

Why is there even a debate over whether illegal immigrants charged with DUI
should be deported? Illegal immigrants should be deported whether or not they
have committed crimes over and above being in this country illegally.

The sentence of five years handed down on illegal immigrant, Lucio Rodriguez, is
a travesty of justice. Not satisfied with living in the country illegally, lying
and forging documents, driving a vehicle without a license or insurance,
Rodriguez showed further disregard for our laws by repeatedly driving drunk. As
a result, the lives of Sara Cole and her family have been irrevocably damaged.
Her medical bills alone must be in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. Now
this common criminal will be a continued guest of the state.

Moreover, the contention of DA Cindy Hendrickson that Rodriguez was "always
willing to take responsibility for his crime" flies in the face of the facts
that Rodriguez fled the scene after nearly killing Sara Cole, and was so drunk
that he was unable to stand when he was eventually apprehended by police.

Bay Area "sanctuary cities," supporters of illegal immigrant "rights" and
Rodriguez's employers, Classic Car Wash and Una Mas, have the blood of Sara Cole
and many other innocent victims on their hands. The simple fact remains: Had the
immigration laws of this country been enforced, Sara Cole would not have been
injured.

Marc van Niekerk

Los Gatos

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday

Committee rejects law to deport illegal immigrants after DUIs

BYLINE: By Judy Peterson Los Gatos Weekly-Times

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Los Gatos; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Breaking

LENGTH: 90 words


The state assembly public safety committee yesterday voted five to two against
"Sara's Law," AB 1882.

Sara's Law is aimed at deporting illegal immigrants who commit drunken driving
offenses.

It was named after Sara Cole, the Los Gatos mother who was seriously injured
last year when she was run down by Lucio Rodriguez, a repeat drunken driver.

Rodriguez, who is an illegal immigrant, is now serving a five-year sentence in
state prison. The bill's sponsor, Assemblyman Martin Garrick of San Diego, says
he will re-introduce Sara's Law next year.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 317 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

Officials to collect DNA

after federal arrests

The U.S. government will soon begin collecting DNA samples from all citizens
arrested for any federal crime and many illegal immigrants detained by federal
authorities, adding genetic identifiers from more than a million individuals a
year to the swiftly growing federal law enforcement DNA database.

The policy would expand the practice of routinely collecting DNA samples from
those only convicted of federal crimes, although it would build on a growing
policy of states to collect DNA from all those arrested.

The initiative requires collection for the first time of DNA from foreigners
detained by U.S. authorities.

At least 280 detained

in raids at five plants

More than 280 workers accused of being illegal immigrants were arrested
Wednesday by federal agents in operations at five plants belonging to Pilgrim's
Pride, a major chicken-processing company, in the largest immigration roundup at
a workplace this year.

Justice Department officials said they would bring identity theft charges
against many of those arrested.

Immigration officials said more than 100 workers were arrested at each of two
plants in Chattanooga, Tenn., and Moorefield, W.Va. Arrests also were made at
plants in Mount Pleasant, Texas; Live Oak, Fla.; and Batesville, Ark.

MASSACHUSETTS

PetSmart sued over

rodent virus infection

A woman whose husband died after receiving a liver transplant infected with a
rodent virus is suing PetSmart, claiming the chain should have warned that
hamsters can carry the virus.

The federal lawsuit filed in Boston alleges Thomas Magee, 54, and two other
organ recipients died after transplants from a woman who had contracted a virus
from a hamster she bought at a PetSmart store.

Bruce Richardson, a PetSmart spokesman, would not comment on the lawsuit but
said the virus is rare.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 4, 2008 Sunday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Immigrants and their supporters may be taking on too many
issues

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 670 words


SAN DIEGO - A lot of Americans can't get their head around the concept of
illegal immigrants demanding civil rights from a country whose laws they've
broken. After all, these are people who have - by virtue of not following the
rules to get here, live here, work here - chosen to live outside our system. And
now they want to come inside, but only to ask for this and demand that, without
admitting they did wrong or acknowledging their responsibility to make it right.

First of all, many of those who marched recently in demonstrations - smaller
than in previous years - aren't illegal immigrants. They're U.S. citizens and
legal residents - including the children of immigrants - who think the
immigration debate has been too one-sided. People like Christine Neumann-Ortiz,
executive director of Voces de la Frontera, an immigrant rights organization in
Milwaukee.

It's good that immigrants and their advocates are expressing themselves, even if
marches may not be the best way to do it. For 364 days a year, we have a
volatile debate over illegal immigrants. This is one day a year when they talk
back - if not directly, then through their actions.

Here's what some of them are saying to me and other members of the media - that
what matters most isn't how they got into this country but what they've done
with their lives since they arrived. If they've worked hard at jobs Americans
won't do, started businesses, paid taxes and raised good kids, then they've
earned a shot at legalization and the right to be free of harassment, hatred and
hysteria. That's how they see it.

Because immigrants and their supporters put so much emphasis on work, it was
predictable that - sooner or later - this movement would morph into a broader
crusade for all workers.

In the mega-marches of 2006 - in some cities, hundreds of thousands of people
turned out - the demands were simple: a path to legalization for illegal
immigrants and the defeat of heavy-handed enforcement legislation in Congress.

This year, the major demands are an end to workplace raids by federal
authorities and a commitment from whomever is elected president that he or she
will support comprehensive immigration reform in the first 100 days of the new
administration.

Immigration reform is essential, but workplace raids are a part of it. We need
more deportations to show the country that we're serious about enforcing our
laws. This will help generate enough good will so that more Americans will go
along with something that now seems out of reach: a conditional path to
legalization for millions of illegal immigrants.

The new round of demands also includes, according to Neumann-Ortiz, the liberal
boilerplate of "access to health care for all and good jobs." And, oh yes, an
end to the war in Iraq.

Oh dear. You can see where this is headed. And it's a dead end. It's
understandable that immigration activists would want to reach outside their
comfort zone and broaden their base of support, and that they would buddy up
with organized labor and the anti-war movement to make that happen.

But it's also a mistake. The conflicting goals will catch up with them. In fact,
they already have. The only way to get a comprehensive bill through Congress is
with support from Republican moderates who will go along only if the package
includes guest workers for their pals in the business community. Organized labor
considers that a deal-breaker. It worries that guest workers will hurt American
workers, not to mention undermine the unions that represent them.

Those on the far left want legalization but they're not willing to go along with
guest workers to get it, while those on the far right want guest workers but not
if it means supporting legalization. The extremes never want to negotiate.

So expect nothing to happen in Congress on immigration for a while, no matter
who gets elected president. Expect more frustration and more marches. This
tradition will continue.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. ( ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com ) is a San Diego
Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 5, 2008 Monday

Time to stop painting all Latinos in a single shade of brown

BYLINE: By Bruce Fuller

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 634 words


A liberating spirit may be hard to detect across Latino communities this week,
as Cinco de Mayo is celebrated from San Jose to East Los Angeles.

The festivities stoke pride in many hearts, marking a small Mexican band's
victory over Maximilian, a hapless Hapsburg prince, and spurring Europe's
retreat from Latin America.

But contemporary conservatives have declared open season on undocumented Latino
workers, snaring citizens in the dragnet as well. The sheriff in Phoenix has
deputized posses to rope in suspected illegal immigrants. Educators in Virginia,
just outside Washington, D.C., must tag parents suspected of being undocumented.

Federal officials admitted last month that their new E-Verify service for
employers has pegged about 3,200 citizens as illegal workers, wrongly
disqualifying them from jobs.

This vigilante mentality fills the policy vacuum caused by Sen. John McCain's
failed effort to achieve immigration reform last year. So the nation's 46
million diverse Latinos are once again being painted in a single shade of brown.

In turn, we all fail to learn from the resilient strengths of Latino families.

Latinos, for instance, now lead healthier lives when compared with non-Latino
whites. Pregnant first-generation women of Mexican heritage display the
healthiest prenatal diets and give birth to the most robust babies compared with
any other group, say new findings at the National Institutes of Health.

Talk about family values: Over four-fifths of immigrant Latino preschoolers are
raised in two-parent households, equaling the share in white families, despite a
gaping disparity in average income.

Latinos pay a cost to assimilate. Immigrant youngsters initially complete their
homework more readily and get higher grades than others who attend the same
school. But these indicators go south with more years in California's public
schools, according to New York University's Carola and Marcelo Suarez-Orosco in
their new book, "Learning a New Land." By adapting to tepid teacher expectations
and peer norms, the drive to achieve cools out.

Tidy ethnic labels are becoming obsolete with the climbing rates of interracial
marriage. The number of children raised by parents of differing ethnic stock
climbed fourfold to over 3 million between 1970 and 2000, says the Census
Bureau. One in five Latino wives is now married to a non-Latino husband.

Many Californians weave through two or more cultures each day. Chayo Campos, an
upbeat working mother of two, commutes from Vallejo to her nurse's aide job in
affluent Marin. Returning home, she often stops to visit her mother in a cramped
Richmond bungalow, easily switching between English and Spanish.

Perhaps we're catching up with culture-spanning writers, like San Francisco's
Richard Rodriguez, who has long detailed the kaleidoscopic diversity of Latino
groups, from feisty Latina lesbians to a Mexican-American shoe salesman inching
his way into the middle class.

Yet even discerning journalists revert to broad labels. James Traub, the New
York Times political correspondent, waxed on about Sen. Barack Obama's Latino
problem last month. Would any careful writer talk of a candidate's white problem
without parsing the group along lines of age, education or gender?

Jacques Derrida, the late French thinker, explained that anxious yet still
dominant tribes initially keep their distance and fail to learn from ascending
groups. What's bedeviling is how to let go of graying ethnic labels and replace
them with prisms that refract the colorful spectrum of Latino families.

"I'm a Latina, I guess," said Chayo Campos. "I just check that box. It's the
only choice they give you."

BRUCE FULLER, a University of California sociologist, co-directs the
Berkeley-UCLA Latino Child Development Project. He wrote this article for the
Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday

Congress penalizes U.S. troops, legal U.S. residents in attempt to punish
illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities;
Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 810 words


When Congress passed an economic-stimulus package giving hefty rebates to most
taxpayers, it tried to make sure that illegal immigrants didn't get any of the
cash.

But in doing so lawmakers inadvertently penalized at least a million legal U.S.
residents - and tens of thousands of U.S. troops stationed overseas - simply
because their spouses lack a Social Security number.

"Imagine an American soldier in Iraq whose foreign-born wife is waiting for an
immigration petition to be approved and doesn't have a Social Security card. Now
the couple can't even get a rebate," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose. "That is
really stupid."

Others in the predicament include legal residents whose spouses are still
overseas because of long immigration queues and hundreds of thousands of H-1B
work visa holders in Silicon Valley and elsewhere.

The scope of the problem is only now becoming clear as the government begins
sending out rebate checks. The first checks were electronically deposited in
bank accounts last week.

Because illegal immigrants don't have Social Security numbers and instead
routinely use "tax identification numbers," Congress banned rebates for
taxpayers who use the IRS-issued numbers.

If a married couple files jointly and one spouse doesn't have a Social Security
number, the couple won't get the $1,200 checks that other couples will receive.
They're also ineligible for the $300 rebate per child.

Many Armed Forces members stationed overseas have foreign spouses who can't get
Social Security numbers.

William Luong, stationed at a U.S. naval base in Yokosuka, Japan, said some of
his fellow seamen resent that they've landed in the same category as illegal
immigrants.

"They understand the reason they're getting the shaft," said Luong, 21, who is
from the Los Angeles area. "But a lot are frustrated or angry about it."

More than 288,000 troops are stationed overseas, according to the Pentagon - not
counting those in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many live in places - Korea, Japan and
Germany - where extended stays often result in marriages to locals.

The unintended situation developed after the House in late January passed the
economic-stimulus legislation at the urging of President Bush. But anti-illegal
immigration groups then lobbied the Senate to add the Social Security
requirement, fearing that illegal immigrants would get their hands on the
checks.

The Federation for American Immigrant Reform - whose members went on radio talk
shows to bash the House version of the stimulus bill - has no apologies.

"No law was ever written that doesn't find someone falling through the cracks,"
said Ira Mehlman, a FAIR spokesman, who said he hoped government officials will
come up with some way to help Armed Forces members.

But legal immigrants who are being denied rebates say they want some justice,
too.

"If the government collects taxes from us, we should be able to get rebates
given to other legal residents, it should be a level-playing field," said
Parveen Kumar, an H-1B visa holder who lives in Sunnyvale.

Kumar moved to Silicon Valley from India with his wife three years ago. He now
works as an engineer at Intelliswift Software in Fremont. But his wife, Anu, is
on a H-4 "dependency visa" that doesn't allow her to work.

After he found out about the rebate law, he went to the Mountain View office of
the Social Security Administration and asked if he could get a number for his
wife. He was told no.

John Johnston, a spokesman for the Social Security Administration, confirmed on
Wednesday that the agency's policy is not to issue Social Security cards simply
for the purpose of issuing tax rebates.

According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, there are now between
600,000 and 800,000 H-1B visa holders in the United States. Exactly how many are
married to spouses ineligible to work in this country is unclear.

Another group of immigrants - about a million nationwide - are non-citizen
green-card holders who are already facing seven-year waits to get permission for
their spouses to immigrate to their country.

"I've been in America for well over 20 years, and I consider myself an
American," said Amir Nikpouri of Orland Park, a suburb of Chicago. "All I'm
trying to do is obey the laws, but this one seems really unfair."

Nikpouri, 31, was married three years ago, but his wife won't be eligible to
immigrate from Iran for a few more years.

"We are here legally and paying taxes and enjoying what a married family should
be enjoying," said Aung Moe of San Jose, 33, a Burmese political refugee who
works as an engineer at Applied Materials. His wife, Mon, is an electrical
engineer who is forced to live separately from her husband in Singapore.

"Already we cannot be together, and now she cannot get a Social Security
number," he said. "This needs to be fixed."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 8, 2008 Thursday

For some U.S. troops, economic stimulus check is not in mail

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities;
Politics

LENGTH: 818 words


When Congress passed an economic-stimulus package giving hefty rebates to most
taxpayers, it tried to make sure that illegal immigrants didn't get any of the
cash.

But in doing so lawmakers inadvertently penalized at least a million legal U.S.
residents - and tens of thousands of U.S. troops stationed overseas - simply
because their spouses lack a Social Security number.

"Imagine an American soldier in Iraq whose foreign-born wife is waiting for an
immigration petition to be approved and doesn't have a Social Security card. Now
the couple can't even get a rebate," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose. "That is
really stupid."

Others in the predicament include legal residents whose spouses are still
overseas because of long immigration queues and hundreds of thousands of H-1B
work visa holders in Silicon Valley and elsewhere.

The scope of the problem is only now becoming clear as the government begins
sending out rebate checks. The first checks were electronically deposited in
bank accounts last week.

Because illegal immigrants don't have Social Security numbers and instead
routinely use tax identification numbers, Congress banned rebates for taxpayers
who use the IRS-issued numbers.

If a married couple files jointly and one spouse doesn't have a Social Security
number, the couple won't get the $1,200 check that other couples will receive.
They're also ineligible for the $300 rebate per child.

Many armed forces members stationed overseas have foreign spouses who can't get
Social Security numbers.

William Luong, stationed at a U.S. naval base in Yokosuka, Japan, said some of
his fellow seamen resent that they've landed in the same category as illegal
immigrants.

"They understand the reason they're getting the shaft," said Luong, 21, who is
from the Los Angeles area. "But a lot are frustrated or angry about it."

More than 288,000 troops are stationed overseas, according to the Pentagon - not
counting those in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many live in places - Korea, Japan and
Germany - where extended stays often result in marriages to locals.

Barring illegal immigrants

The unintended situation developed after the House in late January passed the
economic-stimulus legislation at the urging of President Bush. But anti-illegal
immigration groups then lobbied the Senate to add the Social Security
requirement, fearing that illegal immigrants would get their hands on the
checks.

The Federation for American Immigrant Reform - whose members went on radio talk
shows to bash the House version of the stimulus bill - has no apologies.

"No law was ever written that doesn't find someone falling through the cracks,"
said Ira Mehlman, a FAIR spokesman, who said he hoped government officials will
come up with some way to help armed forces members.

But legal immigrants who are being denied rebates say they want some justice,
too.

"If the government collects taxes from us, we should be able to get rebates
given to other legal residents; it should be a level playing field," said
Parveen Kumar, an H-1B visa holder who lives in Sunnyvale.

Kumar moved to Silicon Valley from India with his wife three years ago. He now
works as an engineer at Intelliswift Software in Fremont. But his wife, Anu, is
on an H-4 "dependency visa" that doesn't allow her to work.

After he found out about the rebate law, he went to the Mountain View office of
the Social Security Administration and asked if he could get a number for his
wife. He was told no.

John Johnston, a spokesman for the Social Security Administration, confirmed on
Wednesday that the agency's policy is not to issue Social Security cards simply
for the purpose of issuing tax rebates.

Spouses of H-1B workers

According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, there are now between
600,000 and 800,000 H-1B visa holders in the United States. Exactly how many are
married to spouses ineligible to work in this country is unclear.

Another group of immigrants - about a million nationwide - are non-citizen
green-card holders who are already facing seven-year waits to get permission for
their spouses to immigrate to their country.

"I've been in America for well over 20 years, and I consider myself an
American," said Amir Nikpouri of Orland Park, a suburb of Chicago. "All I'm
trying to do is obey the laws, but this one seems really unfair."

Nikpouri, 31, was married three years ago, but his wife won't be eligible to
immigrate from Iran for a few more years.

"We are here legally and paying taxes and enjoying what a married family should
be enjoying," said Aung Moe of San Jose, 33, a Burmese political refugee who
works as an engineer at Applied Materials. His wife, Mon, is an electrical
engineer who is forced to live separately from her husband in Singapore.

"Already we cannot be together, and now she cannot get a Social Security
number," he said. "This needs to be fixed."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews  .com or (408) 920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 371 words


In long view, gadgets,

potato chips are cheaper

At this traditional kickoff to the summer vacation season, Americans are not
happy about recent spikes in food and gasoline prices, and their leaders know
it.

Oil executives were recently grilled at a congressional hearing, accused by some
of unseemly profits.

Consumers might find some pleasure in a longer view. (Or not: in either case,
gas is way up.)

The government keeps track of select costs going back a decade or more, and over
that time many items have gotten much cheaper when inflation is taken into
account.

Electronics are relative bargains. And it is a testament to the genius of the
food industry that while the cost of potatoes went up, the cost of potatoes
processed into chips went down.

KENTUCKY

Illegal immigrants didn't

show landlord U.S. IDs

Four illegal immigrants who rented from indicted Lexington, Ky., landlords have
testified they showed only Mexican identification when they applied for
apartments.

The immigrants, who are to be deported, testified in depositions that they did
not present American driver's licenses or Social Security cards.

The depositions were filed in the criminal case against William Jerry Hadden,
69, and son Jamey, who are charged with 24 counts of harboring illegal aliens
and 24 counts of encouraging illegal immigrants to remain in the country.

The Hadden case appears to be the first time the federal government has tried to
prosecute landlords for renting to illegal immigrants, defense attorneys say.

OHIO

Younger Knievel clears

width of 24 trucks

Robbie "Kaptain" Knievel successfully jumped over 24 delivery trucks Saturday
night at the site of one of his father's most famous stunts.

Knievel had said he would be going 95 miles per hour during the 220-foot jump,
which began from a tall ramp and was completed amid wild cheers, booming
explosions and shooting flames at Kings Island amusement park near Cincinnati.

After landing, the daredevil gave the crowd a thumbs-up, raced his bike back and
forth and popped a wheelie.

Evel Knievel jumped 115 feet over 14 buses at Kings Island in 1975. He died last
year at the age of 69 after suffering from failing health for many years.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday

Obama calls out two who stir up bad blood

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 686 words


Some of those who rail against illegal immigration can dish it out but they
can't take it. Since most illegal immigrants come from Mexico or other parts of
Latin America, critics sometimes say the sort of crude things that give the
debate its anti-Latino flavor. But let someone call them on it and do they ever
get defensive.

Speaking to supporters in Palm Beach last week, Barack Obama blasted a couple of
media personalities by name.

"A certain segment has basically been feeding a kind of xenophobia. There's a
reason why hate crimes against Hispanic people doubled last year," Obama said.
"If you have people like Lou Dobbs and Rush Limbaugh ginning things up, it's not
surprising that would happen."

It's about time. That some cable hosts and radio talkers grow their ratings by
pandering to the anti-immigrant crowd is no big secret.

Statistics speak loudly

Not surprisingly, supporters of Dobbs and Limbaugh went on the attack. They
insisted that Obama had overstated the statistics. In 2006, the FBI reported
that hate crimes against Hispanics increased 10 percent from the previous year -
576 in 2006, 522 in 2005.

Nevertheless, Hispanics in 2006 were considered by the FBI as the No. 1 victim
of hate crimes motivated by one's ethnicity or national origin, and by a margin
that was the highest since records have been kept. Hispanics comprised 62.8
percent of victims of crimes motivated by a bias toward a victim's ethnicity or
national origin.

So Obama was on the right track. In a world where the remnants of the Ku Klux
Klan use immigration to recruit new members and where neo-Nazis have produced a
repulsive computer game in which players shoot Mexicans crossing the border and
watch them explode, it's obvious that these are hard times for Hispanics.

Limbaugh has made his share of sophomoric remarks about Hispanics and
immigration. Not long ago, he aired a parody - a group calling itself Jose y los
Ilegales singing "The Star-Spanglish Banner," complete with Speedy Gonzales
accents and offensive lyrics. He also took a shot at Los Angeles Mayor Antonio
Villaraigosa by saying that, when they were introduced - by former President
Bill Clinton, no less - Limbaugh thought the first Latino to serve as mayor of
America's second-largest city in more than a century was "maybe a shoeshine
guy."

Still, there is a difference between sophomoric and sinister, and Dobbs is more
accurately described as the latter. In fact, Fox News' Geraldo Rivera recently
referred to Dobbs as a "hatemonger" for his treatment of the immigration issue.

That also seems to be the view of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which
recently teamed up with a liberal group, Media Matters for America, to issue a
report examining how the immigration debate is framed by cable news shows,
including CNN's "Lou Dobbs Tonight." The report found that these kinds of shows
overflow "not just with vitriol, but also with a series of myths that feed
viewers' resentment and fears, seemingly geared toward creating anti-immigrant
hysteria." Among the most common myths - that illegal immigrants commit more
than their share of crime, drain social services, and conspire to retake the
Southwest and return it to Mexico.

'Taco' crack draws ire

It also doesn't help Dobbs' reputation that, during an interview last year on
CBS's "60 Minutes," he recalled a meeting with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus
in which the CNN host claimed that the representatives, in trying to establish
if he was pro-Latino, asked him if he "had ever eaten a taco . . . and an
enchilada."

That crack inspired a letter of protest to CBS from Rep. Joe Baca, D-San
Bernardino, insisting that Dobbs' comments did not "reflect the true nature of
the discussion at our meeting." He called Dobbs' juvenile and stereotypical
remarks about Mexican food "just one example of how he continues to belittle
Hispanic members of Congress and the Hispanic community."

So did Barack Obama go too far in criticizing media talkers who are poisoning
the public mood against Latinos? Are you kidding? He only scratched the surface.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday

Many legal residents immigrated illegally

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; State;
Local

LENGTH: 307 words


More than half of California immigrants who got green cards in 2003 once lived
in the United States illegally, according to a new report by the Public Policy
Institute of California.

The San Francisco think tank analyzed the paths immigrants take to become legal
permanent residents - the first step toward U.S. citizenship - and found them
anything but straightforward.

"Talk radio tends to divide the immigration debate into 'legal equals good' and
'illegal equals bad,' but it's just not that simple," said Laura Hill, a
research fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California who co-wrote the
report.

The institute used data from the last extensive study of legal permanent
residents done in 2003, when 289,000 immigrants were interviewed nationwide. The
think tank found that only 33 percent of immigrants in California granted
permanent-residency status were traditional "new arrivals." Fifteen percent came
as students, tourists or on other temporary visas. But the surprising finding
was that 18 percent had overstayed visas, and 35 percent were illegal border
crossers.

"It's very common for immigrants to move from illegal to legal status," Hill
said. Probably the most common way, she said, is to marry a U.S. citizen.

Hill said she hoped the report can be used by U.S. policy-makers as they weigh
changes to the always controversial legal-immigration system.

Marie Sebrechts, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
said she didn't "want to speculate on the accuracy of the numbers, as we do not
track applications this way." But she noted that some applicants who became
legal permanent residents during 2003 could have qualified under the Legal
Immigration and Family Equity Act, which allowed some people who resided
unlawfully in the United States during specified periods to apply for permanent
residency.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

Driver in bike-riding girl's death is illegal immigrant, police say

BYLINE: By Sandra Gonzalesand Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 917 words


Not only was the driver of a Ford Bronco that fatally struck a 12-year-old girl
unlicensed, but San Jose police say she is an illegal immigrant, too, renewing
the debate on whether undocumented people should be allowed to apply for
driver's licenses.

The revelation that Adriana Fierro De Marin, 31, was in the country illegally
struck yet another cord with the family of Breanna Slaughter-Eck, still reeling
from the loss of the Hoover Middle School sixth-grader.

"I'm worried that she just might flee now and walk away from all this," said Joe
Castro, the man who raised Breanna for the last four years. For her part,
Breanna's mother simply wants justice.

Breanna was biking home from Hoover on June 12, on her last day of school, when
a Ford Bronco making a left turn slammed into her. The crash is still under
investigation and no charges have been filed.

But Breanna's death and the disclosure by authorities that Fierro de Marin is an
undocumented immigrant and unlicensed driver highlights one of the more
controversial and lingering topics in the state Capitol.

There have been nine attempts since 1999 to allow undocumented immigrants to
apply for driver's licenses. Each of the efforts has failed - opposed by
Republicans who say it's inappropriate to provide state services and benefits to
people in the country illegally.

State Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, says safety is more important.

"We have every day, 2 1/2 million people taking the roads who, if given the
opportunity, would apply for driver's licenses," said Cedillo, whose latest
proposal passed the Senate and is back before the Assembly this summer. "We're
endangering the lives of pedestrians and motorists in California every single
day."

Lt. Carl Neusel, an assistant division commander for the Santa Clara County
Sheriff's Office, estimates about a third of the unlicensed drivers deputies
encounter are undocumented. "It's a problem," he said.

More importantly, traffic experts say, the focus should be on all unlicensed
drivers, illegal or not, because statistics link such drivers to more high-risk,
hazardous behavior.

Statistics show that nationwide one of every five fatal crashes involves drivers
without a valid license.

In California, nearly a quarter of all crashes from 2001 to 2005 involved
drivers without a license, according to a study by the AAA Foundation for
Traffic Safety.

xxxxx

"Are these people risky? Yes," said Robert Scopatz, who co-authored studies of
unlicensed drivers for the auto club.

Scopatz said unlicensed drivers cut through all demographics and that unlicensed
illegal immigrants are only a tiny portion of the problem. Simply put, Scopatz
said, unlicensed drivers tend to have more societal issues, among them problems
with alcohol or drugs that prevent them from getting a license.

"The biggest risk they pose to society is that their bad attitudes are reflected
in their driving," he said.

In the San Jose area last year, the California Highway Patrol alone issued 3,886
citations to drivers without a license. Statewide, CHP issued 132,042 in 2007.

"Unfortunately, it's pretty common; we come across it more often than we
should," said Sgt. Trent Cross, spokesman for the Bay Area's California Highway
Patrol division. While having a license doesn't guarantee safety, it helps,
Cross said.

"It shows that you went to the DMV and passed the test and it shows you have a
basic understanding of how to operate a motor vehicle."

Driving without a license in California is a misdemeanor, but the penalties
could be greater if it involves an injury or fatality. The decision whether to
file criminal charges against Fierro De Marin will be made by the Santa Clara
County District Attorney's Office.

xxxx

Local authorities aren't responsible for enforcing immigration laws, and police
in many cities, including San Jose, have standing policies that limit officers
from notifying immigration authorities about a suspect's status unless felony
charges are involved.

However, before a suspect is booked into jail, they are asked a series of
questions - whether they are U.S. citizens, their place of birth and their
immigration status. The answers can alert federal agents whether the inmate is
in the country illegally.

In Fierro De Marin's case, police initially arrested her on suspicion of felony
vehicular manslaughter and misdemeanor driving without a license, but released
her to spend more time developing the case, said San Jose police spokesman
Enrique Garcia.

Since felony accusations were involved, police alerted immigration officials
about her status, Garcia said.

Efforts to reach Fierro De Marin on Thursday were unsuccessful, but last week
she told the Mercury News she was driving to pick up her own daughter from the
same school when the crash happened. "I feel so bad. I'm so, so sorry," said
Fierro De Marin, whose family moved here from Mexico 20 years ago. "It's as if
it happened to me."

Meanwhile, Cedillo said Breanna's death should serve as a reminder that many
undocumented immigrants are driving California's streets and highways without
proper training.

Once again, Republicans oppose Cedillo's bill, SB 60.

"There are arguably good reasons why we want to know who is here - and
identification is not a bad idea - but what we do is we send a wrong message to
law-abiding Californians that we have to follow the law but everyone else
doesn't," said Assemblyman Anthony Adams, R-Monrovia. "That's the fundamental
problem."

Contact Sandra Gonzales at sgonzales@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5778.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

Monsoon floods in India

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 389 words


VENEZUELA

Chavez blasts EU rules,

threatens to deny oil

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez threatened Thursday to punish European
countries that apply strict new rules for deporting illegal immigrants by
denying them oil and blocking their investments.

The EU Parliament passed new guidelines Wednesday under which illegal migrants
can be held in special detention centers - not jails - for up to 18 months
before being expelled.

Chavez said in a televised speech that the measure shows "signs of fascism," and
that countries would have to "build concentration camps" to hold millions of
immigrants.

"Our oil shouldn't go to those countries" that adopt the policy, he said.

Venezuela sells most of its oil to the United States despite political tensions
between the two nations, but is only a minor supplier to Europe. Some European
companies operate in Venezuela, including France's Total and Norway's Statoil.

CHINA

Quake region braces

for heavy rainstorms

Earthquake-ravaged sections of China's devastated Sichuan province braced
Thursday for heavy rainstorms that could trigger new landslides, one day after
officials reportedly finished evacuating 110,000 people from the area.

Rain began falling in the evening and thunderstorms were forecast today through
Sunday, according to the provincial weather bureau. This month marks the start
of the annual rainy season, which routinely leads to flooding in rivers in
provinces downstream.

FRANCE

Suspect arrested in theft

of church treasures

A man suspected of stealing $15 million of historic treasures from churches was
arrested Thursday, officials said.

The 30-year-old suspect was taken into custody by police in Saint-Ouen, north of
Paris, after he allegedly asked an antiques dealer to sell an object stolen from
a church in Normandy, said Bernard Darties, deputy director of the French police
force that tracks thefts of cultural goods.

The investigation began after statues and other treasures disappeared from
Normandy churches starting in 2007. Some of the objects date back to the 12th
century.

"Usually, thieves take precautions, but in this case the objects were snatched
and damaged without respect," Darties said.

The suspect confessed to 20 thefts in Normandy, Darties said, adding that he is
suspected in other regions as well.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

Why driver in fatal crash was unlicensed

BYLINE: By Sandra Gonzalesand Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; Traffic;
Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 929 words


Not only was the driver of a Ford Bronco that fatally struck a 12-year-old girl
unlicensed, but San Jose police say she is also an illegal immigrant, renewing
the debate over whether undocumented people should be allowed to apply for
driver's licenses.

The revelation that Adriana Fierro De Marin, 31, is in the country illegally
struck yet another chord with the family of Breanna Slaughter-Eck, still reeling
from the loss of the Hoover Middle School sixth-grader.

"I'm worried that she just might flee now and walk away from all this," said Joe
Castro, the man who raised Breanna for the last four years. For her part,
Breanna's mother simply wants justice.

Breanna was biking home from Hoover on June 12, her last day of school, when a
Ford Bronco making a left turn slammed into her. The crash is still under
investigation and no charges have been filed.

But Breanna's death and the disclosure by authorities that Fierro De Marin is an
undocumented immigrant and unlicensed driver highlights one of the more
controversial topics lingering in the state Capitol.

There have been nine attempts since 1999 to allow undocumented immigrants to
apply for driver's licenses. Each of the efforts has failed, opposed by
Republicans who say it's inappropriate to provide state services and benefits to
people who are in the country illegally.

State Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, says safety is more important.

"We have, every day, 2 1/2 million people taking the roads who, if given the
opportunity, would apply for driver's licenses," said Cedillo, whose latest
proposal passed the Senate and is back before the Assembly this summer. "We're
endangering the lives of pedestrians and motorists in California every single
day."

San Jose police encounter their fair share of undocumented, unlicensed drivers,
said Police Chief Rob Davis, who sees valid points on both sides of the debate
and notes that law enforcement remains caught in the middle.

"When you are talking about illegal immigrants, there are a whole host of social
issues that have fallen on law enforcement," said Davis, adding that local law
enforcement is dealing with the lack of policy from both federal and state
levels.

Lt. Carl Neusel, an assistant division commander for the Santa Clara County
Sheriff's Office, estimates about a third of the unlicensed drivers deputies
encounter are undocumented. "It's a problem," he said.

Safety statistics

More important, traffic experts say, the focus should be on all unlicensed
drivers, illegal immigrants or not, because statistics link such drivers to more
high-risk, hazardous behavior.

Statistics show that nationwide, one of every five fatal crashes involves
drivers without a valid license.

In California, nearly a quarter of all crashes from 2001 to 2005 involved
drivers without a license, according to a study by the AAA Foundation for
Traffic Safety.

"Are these people risky? Yes," said Robert Scopatz, who co-authored studies of
unlicensed drivers for foundation.

Scopatz said unlicensed drivers cut across all demographics and that unlicensed
illegal immigrants are only a tiny portion of the problem. Simply put, Scopatz
said, unlicensed drivers tend to have more societal issues, among them problems
with alcohol or drugs that prevent them from getting a license.

"The biggest risk they pose to society is that their bad attitudes are reflected
in their driving," he said.

In the San Jose area last year, the California Highway Patrol alone issued 3,886
citations to drivers without a license. Statewide, CHP issued 132,042 in 2007.

'Pretty common'

"Unfortunately, it's pretty common; we come across it more often than we
should," said Sgt. Trent Cross, spokesman for the Bay Area's California Highway
Patrol division. While having a license doesn't guarantee safety, it helps,
Cross said.

"It shows that you went to the DMV and passed the test, and it shows you have a
basic understanding of how to operate a motor vehicle."

The decision whether to file criminal charges against Fierro De Marin will be
made by the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office.

Local authorities aren't responsible for enforcing immigration laws, and police
in many cities, including San Jose, have standing policies that limit officers
from notifying immigration authorities about a suspect's status unless a felony
is involved.

In Fierro De Marin's case, police initially arrested her on suspicion of felony
vehicular manslaughter and driving without a license, a misdemeanor, but
released her to spend more time developing the case, Davis said.

Since felony accusations were involved, police alerted immigration officials
about her status, Davis said.

Efforts to reach Fierro De Marin on Thursday were unsuccessful, but last week
she told the Mercury News she was driving to pick up her own daughter from the
same school when the crash happened. "I feel so bad. I'm so, so sorry," said
Fierro De Marin, whose family moved here from Mexico 20 years ago. "It's as if
it happened to me."

Meanwhile, Cedillo said Breanna's death should serve as a reminder that many
undocumented immigrants are driving California's streets and highways without
proper training.

Once again, Republicans oppose Cedillo's bill, SB 60.

"There are arguably good reasons why we want to know who is here - and
identification is not a bad idea - but what we do is we send a wrong message to
law-abiding Californians that we have to follow the law but everyone else
doesn't," said Assemblyman Anthony Adams, R-Monrovia. "That's the fundamental
problem."

Contact Sandra Gonzales at sgonzales@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5778.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 7, 2008 Monday

Additional 'Letters to the Editor'

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 815 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

California has endured partisan legislative gridlock for too long. We were the
envy of the nation and the world years ago. Now, it almost seems that we qualify
for U.N. aid in education and infrastructure development. We need to motivate
the Legislature to do its job consistently. We can do that by passing an
initiative requiring that if a balanced budget isn't passed on time, the
Legislature will be dissolved and the governor would enact a balanced budget
using the prior year's budget as a template. Safeguards against using local
government budgets would need to be included also.Legislators from the dissolved
Legislature would be banned from public service in California for five years.

Larry Shoemaker

San Jose

The supporters of illegal immigration blame U.S. employers for luring illegal
immigrants across the border with the promise of jobs. Yet, these very same
people are complaining about the long overdue crackdown by both federal and
state governments on companies who employ people that are here illegally. By
hiring illegal immigrants, employers significantly improve their bottom line by
paying substandard wages and providing few, if any, benefits. The direct result
is that California taxpayers are left to shoulder the burden of closing the gap
between the services used by illegal employees and the taxes collected from
them. (This gap is estimated to be $9.8 billion in 2008.) In other words,
California taxpayers are making a substantial contribution to the profits of
those companies who hire illegal immigrants.

Steven Stark

Cupertino

I agreed with Ruben Navarette (Besides better immigration laws, we need better
parenting) regarding the importance of our teenagers working. I have a 16
year-old son with 2 jobs. He drives himself to-and-from work. How will our teens
find work when the driving age goes up to 18? If parents have to drive
full-grown kids to jobs, in addition to sports, school, etc., you can forget
seeing your neighborhood teenager bagging your groceries, making your lattes, or
guarding your kids in the pool.

Maria Klein

Los Altos

The Food and Drug Administration says Salmonella outbreak is not caused by
tomatoes. They think it may be from Jalapeno peppers. They aren't sure about
that either. Meanwhile tomato farmers have lost hundreds of millions of dollars.
There probably not as many jalapeno pepper farmers as tomato farmers. What if it
turns out to be onions, or a host of other sources? Bureaucrats at the FDA can
put tomato farmers, pepper farmers and onion farmers out of business and still
be wrong. Meanwhile the cause of the Salmonella outbreak remains a mystery. Does
anyone remember the 1989 Alar apple scare? Meryl Streep testified before
Congress about the dangers of Alar. Apple farmers lost millions of dollars on
that fiasco. No one was held accountable for that disaster either. It is time to
look at how we assign these disease causes.

Keith C. De FilippisSan Jose

After reading for various days about the budget problems and solutions of the
Mayor Chuck Reed, ere are 3 simple ideas to save money, foster health, encourage
education and serve more people. 1. Close libraries on Monday and open on
Sundays. Monday is a work/school day. Sunday is a good day to visit the library
for everyone. 2. Open libraries Tuesday through Friday from noon until 9 p.m.
Open them Saturday and Sunday from noon to 7 p.m. Most people can't use the
library before 6 p.m. 3. Monday through Saturday keep public swimming pools open
until 9:00 p.m. and until 6:00 pm Sunday. Evening swimming is an antidote for
flaring tempers, ornery children, boredom, gang recruitment, vandalism and
mischief. Most pools are close to public transit and less expensive than a theme
park. There are wiser ways to spend our public funds, but common sense is not
common.

Maria Hennessy

San Jose

As I read letters such as Ellen Wheeler's (Letters, July 6), I realize that
chairing the right man for the U.S. presidency is nothing more than a whimsical
crap-shoot. Instead of making an informed, well-investigated decision as to who
the next president should be, there are many people like Wheeler who will vote
for Obama for reasons no more significant than 'his compelling personal story
that is the story of America'. Unfortunately, there are too many people who will
vote for Obama because of race (95% of the African American population is
expected to vote for him), because he is a smooth talker, because he is
attractive, or because they are just plain mad at Bush. These and many other
reasons are not logical reasons to vote someone into office. People need to put
their emotions, prejudices, and liberal media (e.g. SJMN) influence aside, and
evaluate each candidate's experience, credentials, and connections to determine
who the best person is for the job.

Joe Waterhouse

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 14, 2008 Monday

McCain: Border security before path to citizenship

BYLINE: By Mary Anne Ostrom Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; News

LENGTH: 695 words


SAN DIEGO- John McCain on Monday asked Latinos to trust him on the thorny issue
of how to treat the nation's illegal immigrants, a day after Barack Obama
accused the Arizona senator of backing away from his a key position for fear of
alienating GOP conservatives.

Far behind in polls that show Obama leading 2 to 1 among Latino voters, a feisty
McCain spoke to the National Council of La Raza a day after the Illinois
senator, and said he intends to make comprehensive immigration reform a top
priority if elected.

But disappointing some at the Latino civil rights gathering, he said he stuck to
his position that he only would consider a path to citizenship for illegal
residents after he can prove to Americans that the border is secure. Otherwise,
he argued, reform measures will never be enacted. He cited fears of national
security and that a porous border leads to drug smuggling and other crimes.

"I do ask for your trust that when I say I remain committed to fair, practical
and comprehensive immigration reform, I mean it. I mean it. With all due
modesty, I think I have earned that trust."

As evidence, he said he would have "never risked the alienation of parts of my
own party" if he wasn't serious about finding a solution. He also vocally
condemned those who are using the immigration debate to "denigrate the
contributions of Hispanics" - including those among Republican ranks.

"We cannot forget the humanity God commands of us as we seek a remedy to this
problem," he said, prompting applause from the audience of 2,000.

Illegal immigration has become a flashpoint between McCain and Obama as they vie
for the votes of an estimated 10 million Latinos expected to cast ballots in
November. Upping the stakes, many of those voters live in key swing states.

McCain has acknowledged his retreat from his own 2006 legislation, co-authored
with Democrat Sen. Ted Kennedy, that included a provision to allow illegal
immigrants to apply for citizenship after taking certain steps. It never
garnered sufficient bipartisan support to pass.

During the competitive GOP primary he began saying that a safe border is
paramount before citizenship initiative can be pursued.

"We do need to have our border secure, which we can do in fairly rapid fashion,"
McCain said, responding to an audience member seeking a commitment regarding the
fate of the estimated 12 million illegal residents in the U.S. Only then, he
said, could he "guarantee" that the American public would be ready to embrace a
comprehensive solution.

Despite sparring with several questioners over his position on illegal
immigrants, he ignored a moderator's attempt to end the session. McCain
pointedly reminded the audience that Obama had refused his invitation to debate
the issues "on the same stage" and bristled at Obama's Sunday accusation that
McCain dropped granting illegal residents a mechanism to gain citizenship for
political expediency.

Still, McCain's position could hurt him among some Latinos. 'I'm a Democrat but
I was considering voting for McCain," said Nick Aguilar, a Vietnam veteran from
San Diego. "But not after he changed his mind about immigration."

McCain said Monday that Obama is the one who "declined to cast some of those
tough votes" and noted that Obama had sponsored labor-backed amendments around
guest-worker issues "intended to kill the legislation." He also suggested that
he has a better understanding of Latin America than Obama, adding "I hope
Senator Obama soon visits some of the other countries of the Americas for the
first time."

Manuel Ramirez, a Latino Republican activist from Irvine, said many Latinos
agree with McCain's position on immigration.

"When we have open borders, like right now, it's a huge drain on our schools and
health care," Ramirez said. He said McCain has proved himself as "the best
person to handle the issue."

And Jorge Dominguez, a Chula Vista educator, while impressed with Obama's
articulate speech, gave McCain slightly higher marks. "He's gutsy, coming here
to speak to a crowd of mostly Democrats and taking on their tough questions."
Obama, he noted, just spoke and left.

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday

McCain asks for Latinos' trust

BYLINE: By Mary Anne Ostrom Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; News; Local

LENGTH: 656 words


SAN DIEGO - John McCain on Monday asked Latinos to trust him on the thorny issue
of how to treat the nation's illegal immigrants, a day after Barack Obama
accused the Arizona senator of backing away from a key position for fear of
alienating GOP conservatives.

Far behind in polls that show Obama leading 2 to 1 among Latino voters, a feisty
McCain spoke to the National Council of La Raza a day after the Illinois
senator, and said he intends to make comprehensive immigration reform a top
priority if elected.

But disappointing some at the Latino civil rights gathering, he said he stuck to
his position that he only would consider a path to citizenship for illegal
residents after he can prove to Americans that the border is secure. Otherwise,
he argued, reform measures will never be enacted. He cited fears of national
security and that a porous border leads to drug smuggling and other crimes.

"I do ask for your trust that when I say I remain committed to fair, practical
and comprehensive immigration reform, I mean it. I mean it. With all due
modesty, I think I have earned that trust."

Taking risks

As evidence, he said he would have "never risked the alienation of parts of my
own party" if he wasn't serious about finding a solution. He also vocally
condemned those who are using the immigration debate to "denigrate the
contributions of Hispanics" - including those among Republican ranks.

"We cannot forget the humanity God commands of us as we seek a remedy to this
problem," he said, prompting applause from the audience of 2,000.

Illegal immigration has become a flash point between McCain and Obama as they
vie for the votes of an estimated 10 million Latinos expected to cast ballots in
November. Upping the stakes, many of those voters live in key swing states.

McCain has acknowledged his retreat from his own 2006 legislation, co-written
with Democrat Sen. Ted Kennedy, that included a provision to allow illegal
immigrants to apply for citizenship after taking certain steps. It never
garnered sufficient bipartisan support to pass.

During the competitive GOP primary he began saying that a safe border is
paramount before a citizenship initiative can be pursued.

"We do need to have our border secure, which we can do in fairly rapid fashion,"
McCain said, responding to an audience member seeking a commitment regarding the
fate of the estimated 12 million illegal residents in the United States. Only
then, he said, could he "guarantee" that the American public would be ready to
embrace a comprehensive solution.

Attacks Obama

Despite sparring with several questioners over his position on illegal
immigrants, he ignored a moderator's attempt to end the session. McCain
pointedly reminded the audience that Obama had refused his invitation to debate
the issues "on the same stage" and bristled at Obama's Sunday accusation that
McCain dropped granting illegal residents a mechanism to gain citizenship for
political expediency.

Still, McCain's position could hurt him among some Latinos. "I'm a Democrat but
I was considering voting for McCain," said Nick Aguilar, a Vietnam veteran from
San Diego. "But not after he changed his mind about immigration."

McCain said Monday that Obama is the one who "declined to cast some of those
tough votes" and noted that Obama had sponsored labor-backed amendments around
guest-worker issues "intended to kill the legislation." He also suggested that
he has a better understanding of Latin America than Obama, adding "I hope
Senator Obama soon visits some of the other countries of the Americas for the
first time."

Manuel Ramirez, a Latino Republican activist from Irvine, said many Latinos
agree with McCain's position on immigration.

"When we have open borders, like right now, it's a huge drain on our schools and
health care," Ramirez said. He said McCain has proved himself as "the best
person to handle the issue."

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday

Study: Number of illegal immigrants in California, U.S. likely dropped sharply

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: SPORTS; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; State; Local;
Business; Entertainment

LENGTH: 826 words


With a stagnating economy and hundreds of miles of new fences along the Mexican
border, the United States - and California - may have become a less inviting
destination for illegal immigrants from Latin America.

Two key signals - an unprecedented slow-down in money sent by immigrants back to
Mexico, and a new report that claims the nation's illegal immigrant population
has dropped significantly since last summer - indicate a possible change.

Still, the evidence is not strong in the Bay Area, where the economy is more
robust than the rest of the state, and where local immigrant groups said they
see little or no local evidence of an exodus of undocumented residents.

In a study released Wednesday in Washington, the Center for Immigration Studies,
a group that favors tighter curbs on immigration, said that a weaker economy and
aggressive immigration enforcement has prompted many immigrants to return home
to Mexico and other countries.

"Illegals are responding to changing conditions in the United States and are
going home in significant numbers," said Steven A. Camarota, director of
research for the Center and co-author of the report, which was based on U.S.
Census data.

Meanwhile, Mexico's Central Bank reported Wednesday that the amount of money
sent home by Mexican immigrants dropped by 2.2 percent in the first half of
2008, the first such decline in a decade of record-keeping.

Hans Johnson, a demographer with the Public Policy Institute of California, said
that evidence does not constitute proof that illegal immigrants are leaving the
state, but his research has shown that illegal immigration to California is
strongly tied to the economy.

"The big picture here is we've had a tremendous increase in the number of
illegal immigrants in the United States, and also in California, over the last
15 years or so," Johnson said. "So it is in fact possible, maybe even plausible,
that the numbers have declined."

The last official government estimate of the undocumented population was for
January 2006, when the U.S. Department of Homeland Security said there were 11.5
million illegal immigrants in the United States - a 37 percent increase since
2000. With 2.8 million undocumented residents, California had the largest such
population of any state, but California's illegal immigrant population grew by
13 percent between 2000 and 2006.

The Center for Immigration Studies report said the number of illegal immigrants
in the U.S. peaked at 12.5 million people in August 2007, and had declined by 11
percent, or about 1.3 million people, since then. California's percentage drop
was about the same as the nation's, Camarota said in an interview.

More than two-thirds of the nation's illegal population is from Mexico and other
Latin American countries, according to the Homeland Security study. Because the
Census Bureau does not ask about a person's immigration status, Camarota used
the population of young Latinos with low levels of education as a proxy to
estimate the nation's illegal population.

Camarota acknowledged his method, which differs from the method used by Homeland
Security and other experts to estimate the illegal population, is imperfect.

"It is an estimate, and any attempt to look at the illegal immigrant population
will always be just that," he said. "There is no way to measure illegal
immigration but ... to estimate it."

Nevertheless, South Bay immigrant services groups say they see no evidence of a
significant departure of illegal immigrants. Nor did several Western Union
outlets in San Jose, contacted Wednesday, say that fewer Mexicans were sending
money home.

"They are sending more money," said Don Martin, of the Money Market on The
Alameda in San Jose. "You always have good customers from Mexico."

Advocates who work with immigrants said one possible explanation is that
increased enforcement is driving illegal immigrants underground, who therefore
fail to show up on government surveys like the Census Bureau's.

The suggestion that there are fewer undocumented migrants in the South Bay
"doesn't ring true to me," said Olivia Soza-Mendiola, chief executive officer of
the Mexican American Community Services Agency, Inc. in San Jose.

"When you look at what's going on with immigration and the war against the
undocumented, I think what we're finding is there are more people that are more
obscure. They are starting to hide again like they did in the past, and they
going to be harder to account for."

Gregory Kepferle, the CEO of Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County, said the
agency is seeing "more clients, not fewer" for pro-bono legal services.

"I'm a bit skeptical about the actual percentage decline. It could be, but we're
not seeing it," Kepferle said. "With greater enforcement, what we're hearing is
that people are just keeping their heads down."

The Associated Press report contributed to this report. Contact Mike Swift at
mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.


 immigration - Free Legal Forms

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday

Ignoring laws hurts immigrant debate

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 751 words


In the immigration wars, you have to choose your battles carefully. Otherwise,
you wind up preaching to the choir.

Nativists on the far right make bad choices when they try to limit legal
immigration, declare English the national language and revise the 14th Amendment
so that, in the future, the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants would no
longer be U.S. citizens.

Those on the far left - liberal Democrats, labor unions, immigrant advocates,
open-border enthusiasts, etc. - are making a bad choice by railing against raids
by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at meatpacking plants in the
Midwest.

In one of the most recent such operations, in Postville, Iowa, federal agents
apprehended nearly 400 illegal immigrant workers - most of them from Guatemala -
at Agriprocessors, the nation's largest kosher slaughterhouse and meatpacking
plant. More than 250 were charged with identity theft for using false documents
to procure employment. Because they waived their right to be indicted by a grand
jury, some were immediately sentenced to five months in prison. Others were
deported.

Dirty jobs

By the way, ever wonder why meatpacking and other food processing plants employ
so many illegal immigrants? Spend just one 12- to 15-hour shift working in one
of these places - with the smell, blood, hazards and hard work for $7.25 an hour
(the going rate according to an illegal immigrant seized in Postville) - and you
will wonder no more.

Critics of these raids should talk more about Americans' hypocrisy and how we
helped make the mess we complain about. They should make an issue out of the
fact that we've created a market for illegal immigrants by turning up our noses
at the same hard and dirty jobs that our parents and grandparents did just a few
generations ago.

Instead, those on the left are coming out swinging against workplace raids,
which simply intend to hold people accountable for breaking the law.

Speaking recently to the National Council of La Raza, Barack Obama told the
audience what it wanted to hear when he said, "The system isn't working . . .
when communities are terrorized by ICE immigration raids - when nursing mothers
are torn from their babies, when children come home from school to find their
parents missing, when people are detained without access to legal counsel."

Condemning raids

At a recent annual meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors in Miami, Los
Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Oakland Mayor Ron Dellums and Seattle Mayor
Greg Nickels asked colleagues to take a stand against immigration raids. The
trio introduced a resolution calling on ICE to concentrate on businesses that
exploit workers by violating wage and safety laws, not "responsible employers"
that support the economy.

And Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service Employees
International Union, condemned "the failures of the Bush administration's costly
raid and workplace enforcement strategy," which, he said, "destroys local
communities but does nothing to fix our broken system."

Did you see what just happened? Liberals and others on the left have staked out
a position that essentially says this: If illegal immigrants can make it past
Border Patrol agents on the front lines, they should be able to find sanctuary
as long as they punch a time card.

Oh, there is plenty to criticize in the most recent round of immigration raids,
starting with the fact that employers never seem to get punished as severely and
as publicly as workers do - at least not by immigration officials. (There is
always the hope that other government agencies - such as the U.S. Labor
Department or even the Internal Revenue Service - will look at a case and mete
out their own brand of justice.) Or the fact that those who are apprehended
often are herded like cattle and charged with heavy crimes such as identity
theft. Or the fact that, lacking access to counsel, many plead guilty in
proceedings they don't even understand, and end up in prison rather than simply
being deported as they typically have been.

But on the larger issue of whether there should even be raids in the first
place, the choice is simple: You either think that immigration laws are
important and should be enforced - including through work-site raids - or you
don't.

Apparently, there are a lot of folks out there who fall into the second
category. And, even though it might be based on good intentions, that kind of
thinking is not very useful to the debate.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday

Is U.S. losing its appeal for illegal immigrants?

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 832 words


With a stagnating economy and hundreds of miles of new fences along the Mexican
border, the United States - and California - may have become a less inviting
destination for illegal immigrants from Latin America.

Two key signals - an unprecedented slowdown in money sent by immigrants back to
Mexico, and a new report that claims the nation's illegal immigrant population
has dropped significantly since last summer - indicate a possible change.

Still, the evidence is not strong in the Bay Area, where the economy is more
robust than in the rest of the state, and where local immigrant groups said they
see little or no local evidence of an exodus of undocumented residents.

In a study released Wednesday in Washington, D.C., the Center for Immigration
Studies, a group that favors tighter curbs on immigration, said a weaker economy
and aggressive immigration enforcement have prompted many immigrants to return
home to Mexico and other countries.

"Illegals are responding to changing conditions in the United States and are
going home in significant numbers," said Steven Camarota, director of research
for the center and co-author of the report, which was based on U.S. Census
Bureau data.

Meanwhile, Mexico's Central Bank reported Wednesday that the amount of money
sent home by Mexican immigrants dropped by 2.2 percent in the first half of 2008
compared with the first six months of 2007, the first such decline in a decade.

Hans Johnson, a demographer with the Public Policy Institute of California, said
that evidence isn't proof illegal immigrants are leaving the state, but his
research has shown that illegal immigration to California is strongly tied to
the economy.

"The big picture here is we've had a tremendous increase in the number of
illegal immigrants in the United States, and also in California, over the last
15 years or so," Johnson said. "So it is in fact possible, maybe even plausible,
that the numbers have declined."

The last official government estimate of the undocumented population was for
January 2006, when the U.S. Department of Homeland Security said 11.5 million
illegal immigrants were in the United States - a 37 percent increase since 2000.
With 2.8 million undocumented residents, California had the largest such
population of any state, but California's illegal immigrant population grew by
13 percent from 2000 to 2006.

The Center for Immigration Studies report said the number of illegal immigrants
in the United States peaked at 12.5 million people in August 2007, and had
declined by 11 percent, or about 1.3 million people, since then. California's
percentage drop was about the same as the nation's, Camarota said in an
interview.

More than two-thirds of the nation's illegal immigrant population is from Mexico
and other Latin American countries, according to the Homeland Security study.
Because the Census Bureau does not ask about a person's immigration status,
Camarota used the population of young Latinos with low levels of education to
estimate the nation's illegal immigrant population.

Camarota acknowledged his method, which differs from the method used by the
Homeland Security Department and other experts to estimate the illegal
population, is imperfect.

"It is an estimate, and any attempt to look at the illegal immigrant population
will always be just that," he said. "There is no way to measure illegal
immigration but . . . to estimate it."

Nevertheless, South Bay immigrant services groups say they see no evidence of a
significant departure of illegal immigrants. Nor did several Western Union
outlets in San Jose, contacted Wednesday, say that fewer Mexicans were sending
money home.

"They are sending more money," said Don Martin, of the Money Market on The
Alameda in San Jose. "You always have good customers from Mexico."

Advocates who work with immigrants said one possible explanation is that
increased enforcement is driving illegal immigrants underground, who therefore
fail to show up on government surveys such as the Census Bureau's.

The suggestion that there are fewer undocumented migrants in the South Bay
"doesn't ring true to me," said Olivia Soza-Mendiola, chief executive of the
Mexican American Community Services Agency in San Jose.

"When you look at what's going on with immigration and the war against the
undocumented, I think what we're finding is there are more people that are more
obscure," she said. "They are starting to hide again like they did in the past,
and they are going to be harder to account for."

Gregory Kepferle, CEO of Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County, said the
agency is seeing "more clients, not fewer" for pro bono legal services.

"I'm a bit skeptical about the actual percentage decline. It could be, but we're
not seeing it," Kepferle said. "With greater enforcement, what we're hearing is
that people are just keeping their heads down."


 immigration -  Free Legal Forms

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

The Associated Press report contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 415 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

FDA OKs irradiation

for spinach, lettuce

Food producers now can use radiation to kill bacteria on fresh spinach and
iceberg lettuce because of a new Food and Drug Administration ruling meant to
help head off outbreaks of food illness.

This is the first time the agency has allowed produce to be irradiated as a
health precaution. Tiny doses of radiation already are used to kill pests on
some fruits and vegetables. But the process most often is used on meat -
especially E. coli susceptible ground beef - and some spices. The food is
exposed to just enough radiation to kill off most harmful germs. The process
won't rid the produce of viruses.

Self-deportation plan

ends after few sign up

The federal government will scrap a program for illegal immigrants to turn
themselves in for deportation after only eight people volunteered during a
nearly three-week trial, an official said Thursday.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement offered the pilot program in five
cities, giving illegal immigrants facing court orders to leave the country 90
days to plan their departure instead of facing the prospect of being deported.

ICE will end its "Scheduled Departure" program when the trial period concludes
today, said Jim Hayes, acting director of ICE's detention and removal
operations.

ICE offered the program to 457,000 illegal immigrants who have ignored judicial
orders to leave the country but have no criminal record.

NEW YORK

Report: 3rd tower fires

led to Sept. 11 collapse

Fires in the 47-story office tower at the edge of the World Trade Center site
undermined floor beams and a critical structural column, federal investigators
concluded Thursday, as they attempted to curb still-rampant speculation that
explosives caused the building's collapse Sept. 11, 2001.

No one died when the tower, 7 World Trade Center, tumbled, as the estimated
4,000 office workers had evacuated before it gave way, nearly seven hours after
the second of the twin towers came down.

But the collapse of 7 World Trade Center - home at the time to branch offices of
the CIA and the Secret Service - is cited in hundreds of Web sites and books as
perhaps the most compelling evidence that an insider planted explosives,
intentionally destroying the tower.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology released its findings
Thursday as part of a report resulting from the work of more than 50 federal
investigators and a dozen contractors.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday

News In Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; Traffic;
Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 487 words


San Francisco is delaying a program that would provide identification cards to
all residents regardless of legal status, after the mayor ordered a thorough
review of it and all other city policies affecting illegal immigrants.

Mayor Gavin Newsom requested last month that the ID card plan   closely watched
by other cities considering similar initiatives   be suspended "until a thorough
review has been completed," according to a letter sent to the city
administrator.

"The mayor wants to proceed cautiously with this program to ensure that it
complies with all applicable federal and state laws," Nathan Ballard, the
mayor's spokesman, said Thursday.

The city's policies toward illegal immigrants have come under intense scrutiny
after it was revealed that a number of juvenile offenders were shielded from
deportation because of San Francisco's sanctuary policy.

Ballard said the ID card plan is part of a top-to-bottom review of San
Francisco's practices to make sure they comply with all state and federal laws.

BART is running longer trains for fans bound for two major Bay Area sports
events Monday.

Longer trains will run to San Francisco for the San Francisco Giants-Arizona
Diamondbacks game at AT&T Park, and to Oakland's McAfee Coliseum, where the
Oakland Raiders play the Denver Broncos. Both games start at 7:15 p.m.

After the Raiders game, BART will add trains for fans leaving the Coliseum.

To help avoid long lines, fans will be able to buy flash passes and round-trip
BART tickets at tables at the Dublin/Pleasanton, El Cerrito Del Norte and
Fremont stations Monday from 3 to 7:15 p.m. BART staff will sell flash passes to
the Coliseum/Oakland Airport station for Raiders fans and regular round-trip
BART tickets for Giants fans headed to the downtown San Francisco stations.

Mountain View police have arrested another suspect in June's double homicide,
bringing the total number of people suspected to be involved in the murder plot
to eight.

Authorities arrested Eric Williams, 22, about 9 p.m. Tuesday in his hometown of
Union City on an outstanding warrant for two counts of murder and one count of
conspiracy to commit murder, said police spokeswoman Liz Wylie. Williams was
booked into Santa Clara County Main Jail without bail.

Authorities think Williams and seven accomplices conspired to rob and possibly
murder siblings Omar Aquino, 24, and Maria Teresa Sanchez-Aquino, 27, in the
early morning hours of June 28 on the 1900 block of Plymouth Street. Including
Williams, police have arrested six suspects so far.

The hunt is still on for Kenneth Thomas, 20, who is wanted on the same counts as
Williams, and a 17-year-old girl, who is wanted on the conspiracy count. Both
are considered armed and dangerous. A 15-year-old girl is also in custody.

Anyone with information about the whereabouts of Kenneth Thomas is urged to call
the Mountain View Police Department at 650-903-6344. Tipsters may remain
anonymous.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday

Editorial: Court ruling puts college out of reach for immigrant students

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 481 words


A ruling by a state appeals court in Sacramento this week seriously jeopardizes
undocumented immigrants' right to attend state colleges on in-state tuition
rates. If left unchallenged, that decision would put college out of reach for
tens of thousands of high-achieving students   not only devastating them
personally, but handing the state another setback in trying to prepare an
educated workforce.

Defenders of the current tuition policy must vigorously take their case to the
state Supreme Court and to Congress, which could settle the issue with
enlightened immigration reform. It should pass the long-stalled DREAM Act, which
would give undocumented college students a path to citizenship and make them
eligible for federal financial aid.

The suit was brought by out-of-state students at all three of California's
higher education systems. They cited a 1996 federal law that said illegal
immigrants "shall not be eligible on the basis of residence within a state for
any postsecondary education benefit unless a citizen ... of the United States is
eligible for such a benefit without regard to whether the citizen ... is such a
resident." The court ruled that California's policy was at odds with that law.

California is one of 10 states that offer in-state tuition to undocumented
students who live within their borders.

The ruling by a three-judge appeals court panel was unanimous, but the case,
which now returns to superior court, is not open-and-shut. A federal court threw
out a case in another state on the grounds that out-of-state students couldn't
claim harm just because in-state immigrants paid less.

Seven years ago, California legislators crafted their tuition policy with the
feds in mind. Undocumented students must attend three years of high school in
California and graduate from a school here to be eligible for in-state tuition
in college. That's a more stringent requirement than the one-year residency rule
for out-of-staters.

An estimated 20,000 to 30,000 undocumented students pay the in-state rate. Most
come from low-income families who would be eligible for Cal Grants as well as
in-state tuition if California passed a proposed state version of the DREAM Act.
If this ruling holds up, most would drop out. Out-of-state fees are nearly
$18,000 more a year to attend the University of California, $8,000 more at a
California State University campus and eight times the in-state charge of $20 a
credit at a community college.

Undocumented college students arrived in California, often as infants, because
of decisions of their parents. Many attended high schools where the dropout rate
exceeds 50 percent. They should be helped, not punished, for their success.

The federal government acknowledges states have the right to admit undocumented
residents to their colleges. States should also be able to decide, based on
their own self-interest, how much to charge them.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

Opinion: Immigrant students deserve chance at financial aid

BYLINE: By Kent Wong Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 619 words


This week the California Dream Act moved to the governor's desk, and the future
of thousands of students depends on his decision. The Dream Act would provide
undocumented immigrant students the opportunity to compete for college loans and
grants for which they are currently ineligible. It is supported by a broad
coalition, including educators, students, religious leaders, labor and business
groups.

SB 1301, sponsored by Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, would allow deserving
undocumented immigrant students the same opportunity as other students to apply
for institutional financial aid. It would be a godsend for these students, and
it would benefit society as a whole by increasing the number of educated young
people entering the workforce.

More than 25,000 undocumented students graduate from California high schools
each year. Most were brought here as young children by parents or other
relatives. For many, this is the only country they have ever known. And yet,
because of their immigration status, they are doomed to a life in the
underground economy unless there is a change in federal law that would provide
them with a path to citizenship.

The Federal Dream Act would offer them an opportunity to earn legal status
through attending college or serving in the U.S. military. Despite extensive
bipartisan support, the bill was blocked by a minority of senators last year.
Members of Congress from both parties are planning to reintroduce the Federal
Dream Act in 2009. But in the meantime, California has an opportunity to do the
right thing and help young residents in this position.

By signing SB 1301 into law, Arnold Schwarzenegger   our immigrant governor
can make a strong statement that these young people deserve better. They have
done exactly what our society has asked them to do. They have worked hard,
studied hard and are pursuing a college education.

Allowing them to compete for financial aid would not result in any increase to
the state budget; nor would it give these students a free ride or unfair
advantage over citizens. SB 1301 would just allow them to compete for aid based
on their personal knowledge and achievements. Ironically, undocumented students
enrolled in higher education pay fees that contribute to the financial aid that
is made available to their classmates, yet they themselves cannot apply for
these benefits.

Undocumented students are allowed to pay in-state tuition because of legislation
signed in 2001, opening college doors to thousands who would never have been
able to afford out-of-state tuition. Yet even this modest initiative is being
attacked in the courts by anti-immigrant forces. Recently, an appeals court
issued a ruling against the law.

These AB 540 students, as they are called, represent some of the best and
brightest of their generation. Despite tremendous obstacles, many are working
two and three jobs in order to support themselves through college. They are
training to become teachers, social workers, engineers, scientists and health
care professionals. These are professions our society desperately needs: U.S.
employers are aggressively recruiting thousands of workers from other countries
to fill many of these kinds of jobs, when we have a wealth of resources right
here that are being ignored.

The California Dream Act is good public policy. Not only would immigrant
students benefit, but all of California would benefit from a better educated and
better skilled workforce. Gov. Schwarzenegger should allow these students a
chance at the American dream.

Kent Wong teaches labor studies and Asian-American studies at UCLA and has
co-edited the student publication, "Underground Undergrads: UCLA undocumented
immigrant students speak out."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday

Growth of illegal immigration population grinds to a halt

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: ASTRONOMY; Breaking; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special
Reports; News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 816 words


Since 1990, the nation's population of illegal immigrants has increased every
year. But a new report by an influential think tank says that the growth of the
undocumented population has stopped   at the same time a new federal estimate
indicates that the growth of California's undocumented population has also come
to a sudden halt.

The report released Thursday by the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, D.C.,
also found that the number of newly arriving illegal immigrants no longer
outnumber the number of arriving legal immigrants, reversing a trend that lasted
from 1998 through at least 2004.

Because illegal immigration is so hard to measure, the Pew study was unable to
say whether the change is more the result of increasing numbers of people
deciding to return to Mexico and other home countries, or fewer people deciding
to immigrate illegally to the United States.

The study's authors do say, however, that the slowing economy, coupled with more
aggressive enforcement of immigration laws and borders, are two possible reasons
why the growth has stopped.

The Pew report is consistent with a new U.S. Department of Homeland Security
report, as well as anecdotal evidence such as the reduced remittances workers
are sending back to Mexico. The evidence suggests that the surge in illegal
immigration in California and the rest of the nation during the 1990s and most
of this decade has stopped.

"This was a population that had been growing rapidly and substantially for the
past 15 years, and the growth has essentially come to a halt in 2008," said
Jeffrey S. Passel, the Pew Hispanic Center's senior demographer and co-author of
the report.

As of March, an estimated 11.9 million illegal immigrants lived in the United
States, the report said. That means that undocumented immigrants still make up 4
percent of the U.S. population, and there are 40 percent more of them than in
2000.

But the Pew report said the size of the unauthorized population appeared to have
declined slightly since 2007. That finding, however, is inconclusive because the
estimates are based on statistical sampling with a significant margin of error.

"It's possible that the down economy can be either discouraging people from
staying or discouraging them from coming in," said D'Vera Cohn, senior writer
for the Pew Research Center and the report's co-author. "It's possible that
enforcement issues are making people feel less secure.'"

A second Pew report released Thursday found that the economic slowdown is
hitting both legal and illegal immigrants hard. Median household income for
non-citizen immigrants was down 7.3 percent from 2006 to 2007. Among citizen
households, median income was up 1.3 percent.

"The current economic slowdown, which one can trace to the end of the housing
boom in late 2006, is taking a much greater toll on non-citizen immigrants" than
on U.S. citizens, said Rakesh Kochhar, associate research director for the Pew
Hispanic Center.

In California, the illegal population isn't growing either. The homeland
security report estimated that California had 2.8 million illegal immigrants in
January 2007, nearly the same population the agency estimated for January 2006.
The federal report pegged the nation's illegal population at 11.8 million people
in January 2007   roughly consistent with the Pew estimates.

In the Bay Area, local immigrant rights groups say they haven't detected a drop
in the number of undocumented immigrants. But other evidence suggests there
could be a state or national drop. The Bank of Mexico reported this week that
Mexicans living in the United States sent home 12 percent less money in August
2008 than they had the previous August. The $300 million drop was the largest
percentage decline on record since the central bank began tracking remittances
in the late 1990s.

And newly released 2007 Census information suggests the illegal population could
be dropping in other parts of California. The foreign-born population   the Pew
report estimated that 30 percent of the nation's foreign-born population is
undocumented   declined in more than a dozen California counties from 2006 to
2007, although not in Santa Clara County.

The biggest drops were in San Diego and Imperial County, the two California
counties that border Mexico.

And while California still has more illegal immigrants than any other state, its
share of the nation's undocumented population is dropping   from 30 percent of
the nation's total in 2000 to 24 percent in 2007   as immigrants spread out
across the country, according to the homeland security report.

The Pew report also found that:


     ·    Four of five illegal immigrants are from Latin American countries,
          with about 59 percent from Mexico. Twelve percent are from Asia.



     ·    About 40 percent of the nation's illegal immigrants   or 5.3 million
          people  have arrived since the decade began.


Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday

Early presidential debates sorely lacking in substance

BYLINE: By David S. Broder

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 738 words


WASHINGTON - During Thursday night's Democratic presidential debate in Las
Vegas, New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson was given a chance to answer the question
about offering driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

Before CNN's Wolf Blitzer turned to him, several of Richardson's rivals had
wrestled with the question that had thrown Sen. Hillary Clinton for a loop in
the previous debate, triggering two weeks of complaints that she was being
dodgy.

Clearly intent on setting that notion to rest, she answered this time with a
monosyllable, "No." Her governor, Eliot Spitzer, had abandoned the plan a day
earlier, so she was joining the retreat.

Instead, it was Sen. Barack Obama who seemed flummoxed. At first, he
acknowledged that he had voted as an Illinois state senator to require
undocumented aliens to "get trained, get a license, get insurance to protect
public safety." But a moment later, confusingly, he said, "I am not proposing
that that's what we do." And finally, he said, "Yes."

Former Sen. John Edwards objected to the question, then said "No, but . . .
anyone who's on the path to earning American citizenship should be able to have
a driver's license."

Sen. Chris Dodd said, "I think driver's licenses are the wrong thing to be
doing, in terms of attracting people to come here as undocumented."

Rep. Dennis Kucinich objected to the question because "there aren't any illegal
human beings," and, after an irrelevant swipe at NAFTA, ended up agreeing with
Edwards.

And then came Richardson, who said that four years ago, when the Legislature
sent him a bill allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, "I
signed it. My law enforcement people said it's a matter of public safety. . . .
We wanted more people to be insured. When we started with this program, 33
percent of New Mexicans were uninsured. Today, it's 11 percent. Traffic
fatalities have gone down. It's a matter of public safety. States have to act
when the federal government and Congress doesn't act (on comprehensive
immigration reform)."

Blitzer then turned to Sen. Joe Biden, whose whole answer, like Clinton's, was
"No."

The transcript notes this was followed by laughter and applause.

And, of course, none of the other candidates was ever asked, "What about the
public safety argument cited by Richardson?"

That is revealing of the weakness of these debates as tools for helping voters
decide which candidate to support. The TV impresarios are so eager for
headlines, they rarely pause to ask the candidates for evidence to support their
opinions or assertions. It is bang-bang, but rarely because-and-here's-proof.

On driver's licenses, Richardson offered such proof, but in another case, he did
not. His "solution" to Iraq is to pull out all U.S. troops and contractors
within a year and leave it to "an all-Muslim, all-Arab peacekeeping force, with
some European forces, headed by the U.N."

Well, it's a nice idea, but such a force exists only in Richardson's imagination
- and none is likely to materialize. But he is not called upon to explain.

There are similar, if not worse, examples on the Republican side. This kind of
thing makes these pre-primary debates seem an exercise in theatrical
artificiality, rather than substance.

Three weeks ago, it was Hillary Clinton "stumbling." Last week, she was feisty
and aggressive, flinging her own accusations of mud-slinging at Edwards and
Obama, and finding inconsistencies in their positions.

In all the sound and fury, several important points were lost. The candidates
circled around, but never directly engaged, the question of whether it is
realistic, effective and practical to mandate that every family in the country
obtain health insurance - and, if so, how it would be financed.

As to international policy, we learned along the way that Hillary Clinton is
more hard-line than her main rivals, not only on her willingness to keep a
substantial residual force in Iraq, but in her belief that national security
trumps human rights as a priority for American foreign policy. No Jimmy Carter
she.

But the implications of these positions go unexplored, because there's always
another candidate, another topic, another headline clamoring for attention.

I suspect these candidates are better than they have looked, and that they'd
have reasons to give, if they had time to utter them. I know the voters deserve
better. Can't these debates be rescued?

DAVID S. BRODER is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 16, 2008 Wednesday

REAL ID Act provisions will provide real security

BYLINE: By Michael Chertoff

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 517 words


Should banks cash checks from people who cannot prove who they are? Should
parents hire babysitters they know nothing about? Should airlines let passengers
on board without validating their identity?

For most Americans, these questions answer themselves. Our citizens depend on
different forms of government-issued identification, such as driver's licenses,
every day.

But are these documents necessarily reliable? Consider these facts:

All but one of the Sept. 11 hijackers carried government IDs that helped them
board planes and remain in the country illegally.

Last year, our immigration and customs agents charged hundreds of illegal
workers with crimes relating to state and federal document fraud.

In 2005 alone, identity theft cost American households $64 billion, and 28
percent of these incidents likely required a driver's license to perpetrate.

These examples highlight America's need for more secure forms of identification.
That is a core Sept. 11 Commission recommendation, a key congressional mandate
and something that the American people overwhelmingly support.

In 2005, Congress passed the REAL ID Act precisely for this purpose and on
Friday, our Department of Homeland Security unveiled uniform standards to help
the states advance this vital imperative.

Under these new standards, individuals seeking driver's licenses must provide
their state Department of Motor Vehicles office with documents proving who they
are and that they're here legally. States must verify that the documents
presented are legitimate. DMV offices will be required to protect their own
operations from identity theft and other nefarious activities. States must issue
new, REAL ID licenses that will be tougher to counterfeit or tamper with. They
must work together to prevent individuals from receiving driver's licenses from
multiple states.

We are making $360 million available to help defray the costs of implementation.
As a result, the average cost increase for issuing a REAL ID license will only
be about $8 per person. For states issuing five-year licenses, that is an
increase of just $1.60 per year.

For most people, that's clearly a price worth paying. But that's not the case
for a small but vocal minority who oppose REAL ID.

Some of their objections are based on misinformation. A good example is the
spurious claim that we're ushering in a national identity card. What we are
actually doing is setting standards that will let the states keep issuing their
own ID cards.

Other critics seem to think that it is a privacy violation simply to create
secure identification.

But remember what I said about checks, babysitters and planes.

In the end, by embracing REAL ID, we can indeed cash a check, hire a baby
sitter, board a plane or engage in countless other activities with confidence.
By issuing this rule, we've moved decisively to secure our nation and its people
in the coming years. I truly believe that one day our children will look back at
this day and wonder how we could have lived without these common-sense
protections.MICHAEL CHERTOFF is secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday

Fake border crossing hits home

BYLINE: By Reed Johnson Los Angeles

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 469 words


EL ALBERTO, Mexico - Gunshots ring out and sirens shriek, mixing with the ragged
breath of muddy, panting humans. Suddenly, the full moon sweeping the ground
like a searchlight reveals a disturbing scene: a group of illegal immigrants
being handcuffed and led away by U.S. Border Patrol agents.

But the U.S. border is 700 miles from this rugged municipal park in Hidalgo
state, a three-hour drive north of Mexico City. The spectacle unfolding here
isn't an actual border crossing attempt but a live simulation-adventure that
attempts to give participants a taste of what it's like for the thousands of
Mexican and other Latin American undocumented migrants trying to enter the
promised land of "el norte."

Dubbed the "Caminata Nocturna" (Night Hike), the three-hour simulation is a
combination obstacle course, sociology lesson and PG-rated family outing.
Founded in 2004, it's run by members of a local village of Hnahnu Indians, an
indigenous people of south-central Mexico, whose population of about 2,500 has
been decimated by migration to the United States.

Every Saturday night, dozens of the remaining several hundred villagers take
part in the Caminata. Many work as costumed performers impersonating Border
Patrol agents, fellow migrants and masked "coyotes" and "polleros," the Mexican
guides who escort migrants for a fee.

The 7 1/2-mile hike, which involves quite a bit of running, costs about $10 per
person. The money raised from the Caminata, and other park activities such as
cabin rentals, rappelling and boating trips, is shared evenly among the
villagers.

Since it opened, the Caminata has drawn thousands of visitors, the majority from
Mexico but also from Europe, the United States and Asia. Several of the roughly
50 participants in last Saturday night's outing said they were hoping to gain
some insight into what migrants endure during their trans-border odysseys.

Marcelo Rojas, a Mexico City biologist, knows "many, many Mexicans, some of them
my relatives," who have crossed back and forth between their country and the
United States. "What pushes them is to have the prospect of a better life," he
said. "I know at least three people that went and didn't make it, that wanted to
cross the desert. They died there."

Apart from the occasional sprained ankle or cactus spine lodged in your hand,
the perils of the course are entirely make-believe. But the Caminata isn't
without challenges.

The route takes participants up steep mountains studded with spiky cactuses and
sharp-edged maguey plants, along the banks of the swift-flowing Tula River,
through cow pastures and ancient Indian burial grounds. For much of the journey,
participants are pursued by the ersatz border guards (also known as "la migra"),
racing along in pickups, barking commands to surrender and firing guns loaded
with blanks.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday

LETTERS: Community colleges should charge everyone the same

BYLINE: From the readers of the Saratoga News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES

LENGTH: 93 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

The California community college system presently charges in-state tuition to
many illegal immigrants. This is a financial subsidy it does not provide
American citizens and legal immigrants of other states.

If we are worried about growing our knowledge-based economy, let California
charge in-state tuition rates to other states' talented citizens and legal
immigrants. Until we do so, I think many voters will oppose Proposition 92 and
other legislation like it.

Randy Ison

Los Gatos

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday

LETTERS: Community college should charge the same

BYLINE: From the readers of the Los Gatos Weekly-Times

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Los Gatos; Communities

LENGTH: 94 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

The California community college system presently charges in-state tuition to
many illegal immigrants. This is a financial subsidy it does not provide
American citizens and legal immigrants of other states. If we are worried about
growing our knowledge-based economy, let California charge in-state tuition
rates to other states' talented citizens and legal immigrants. Until we do so, I
think many voters will oppose Proposition 92 and other legislation like it.

Randy Ison

Los Gatos

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday

California News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 275 words


SACRAMENTO

Study: State top destination

for trafficking in humans

California is a top destination for human traffickers who coerce people into the
sex trade or hard labor through force or fraud, according to an 18-month
government study released Tuesday.

The report by a 19-member task force of the California Alliance to Combat
Trafficking and Slavery says California is particularly vulnerable to human
trafficking because of its international border, ports and airports; its booming
immigrant population; and a large economy that includes industries that attract
forced labor.

The report says training should be provided for firefighters, building
inspectors, ambulance workers and others who might be in a position to spot the
signs of human trafficking, and recommends the state increase penalties for
traffickers and provide housing and protection for victims.

SAN DIEGO

County is taking steps

to consolidate fire service

A little more than a month after devastating wildfires swept through rural and
suburban San Diego County, regional officials are moving toward establishment of
a consolidated, countywide fire service. San Diego is the last large county in
California without a unified fire department.

The San Diego Local Agency Formation Commission, which helps shape the county's
public agencies, voted 7-1 Monday to approve a first phase of consolidation
among the county's 65 fire departments. That phase would combine seven rural
fire districts that cover 1.4 million acres and serve 50,000 people in rural and
sparsely populated eastern San Diego County, where many wildfires originate.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 2, 2007 Friday

Poll: Californians split on state's direction

BYLINE: By Steve Geissinger Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Politics

LENGTH: 521 words


SACRAMENTO - Six months ago, voters had their brightest outlook on California's
future in the past six years.

That didn't last long.

A Field poll released today shows voters now are evenly split over whether the
state is headed in the right direction - an attitude fueled by growing
frustration over what they believe is failed U.S. immigration policies and
poorly performing schools.

"People are dissatisfied with the whole state of the country and that affects
their opinions toward California," said Jack Pitney, a political science
professor at Claremont McKenna College.

The poll indicated that among those who have a dim view of California's future,
the largest proportion - 21 percent - cited immigration issues, complaining that
the border is not being properly controlled.

Of voters expressing optimism, the largest percentage - again 21 percent - cited
their confidence in Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's leadership.

"The governor, since he has been in office, has talked about the need for the
federal government to provide a comprehensive immigration policy, which they"
(the president and Congress) "have failed to do," said Schwarzenegger spokesman
Aaron McLear.

The poll showed 42 percent of voters thought the state was headed in the right
direction and 42 percent said it was going in the wrong direction.

A survey in March showed 52 percent believed the state was moving in the right
direction with 38 percent disagreeing. That was the most positive overall
assessment since December 2001, prior to the state's energy crisis and
gubernatorial recall.

Field Poll Director Mark DiCamillo said voters' spirits were buoyed in late 2006
and early this year by bipartisan cooperation between state elected officials
that yielded plans to combat global warming and billions of dollars for
infrastructure upgrades.

The optimism came after Schwarzenegger and Democratic lawmakers dropped
bipartisan bickering and deadlocks of previous years over major issues.

From 2001 to May 2006, in 14 of 15 polls, half or more of voters believed the
state was on the wrong track. In some instances, particularly in 2003 and 2005,
when the state experienced some of its greatest political turmoil, large
majorities held a dismal outlook of the state's overall direction.

"Things have settled back into normalcy in terms of the kinds of things people
are complaining about - issues and not elected officials," DiCamillo said.

Some 13 percent of pessimistic voters said their main concern was poorly
performing schools.

McLear said Schwarzenegger plans to launch an overhaul of public schools in 2008
in what the governor has dubbed his "year of education reform."

Of optimistic voters, 19 percent cited economic gains and 4 percent noted
attempts to improve health care, though the legislative special session to
address the problem has yet to produce anything.

"I think voters are giving Schwarzenegger credit for trying," Pitney said.

The statewide telephone poll of 579 registered voters was conducted Oct. 11-21.
The margin of error is plus or minus 3.7 percentage points.

Contact Steve Geissinger at sgeissinger@angnewspapers.com or (916) 447-9302.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday

Sunnyvale youth leader reflective before deportation hearing

BYLINE: By Cody Kraatz Bay Area News Group

SECTION: LOCAL; News; San Jose - Valley; Communities

LENGTH: 702 words


Lucio Caciano has come to terms with the likelihood that he will be forced to go
back to Mexico soon after a Dec. 11 immigration court hearing in San Francisco.

"I like it here, but if I can't (stay), I'm young. I have opportunities to live
in Mexico and start my new life there," said Caciano, 37, a 3 1/2-year Sunnyvale
resident, gathering his thoughts before speaking in clear but broken English.

"I know it's a little different because I've lived here 15 years, but when
things happen like this I have to understand and continue life."

Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested Caciano on Oct. 10 on the
300 block of Greenlake Drive in Sunnyvale, where he lives with a close family
friend who bought a house there. The agents were looking for someone who no
longer lives there, but discovered that Caciano is not a legal U.S. resident.

About 20 Latinos, from toddlers to 40-somethings, gathered on a Friday evening
in November at St. Athanasius Catholic Church in Mountain View for a youth group
Caciano leads called Jovenes Para Christo, or Youth for Christ.

They cooked in a parish hall kitchen, socialized and sang hymns in Spanish,
accompanied by four guitars. An impromptu altar with a statue of the Virgin Mary
sat in front of rows of chairs.

Caciano's arrest rallied the church community.

"I don't want to think about it," said Yolanda Jimenez, 33, of Mountain View,
who brought her son Alan, 3, to the group. "I feel really sad with this
possibility because he's never missed this group. He's a good man. I think he's
good for all the young people."

Supporters from the parish and community raised $6,840 in an Oct. 15 prayer
vigil that drew 640 people.

"There was a great outpouring of support," said Philip Cosby, a fellow
parishioner, in October. "He is very well known and very much loved."

The funds covered his $5,000 bail and $750 in legal fees, but now his attorney,
James Bennett, told him it would cost another $4,000 to continue challenging the
process by which he was arrested, Caciano said. Bennett, whom Caciano said he
talked with only once, could not be reached for comment.

"I feel that I have friends who can help me and they can do many things, but
they can't do exactly what I need," said Caciano, adding that money is a
problem.

"I would like to see immigration reform here in the United States," said Cosby.
"What I would like is for him to be able to find some way to be legalized, but
right now it seems there's no route to that."

Caciano said he understands those who say that an illegal immigrant who broke
the law must pay the consequences and go back home.

"I understand them because there is a law in this country," he said, but adding
that this does not make him a criminal like a violent offender or thief.

Nonviolent, hardworking illegal immigrants should be left alone, but if they
commit a crime beyond entering the country illegally, they should be deported
instantly, he said.

"We come trying to find a better life, working, helping, trying to do something,
to earn something and not just take things that belong to other people. We come
because we have the necessity."

Youth for Christ is Caciano's way of steering young immigrants away from gangs
and crime, for themselves and for their community. The group was transformative
for him as well.

"One time I came and saw these guys and they helped me to be a better person.
Before I was very shy, you know, I didn't speak much with others," but the group
inspired his emergence, he says.

If he goes back to Mexico, pretty unfamiliar territory now, Caciano said he
would likely visit his two brothers in Atenango del Rio, a small town in the
state of Guerrero, north of Acapulco, and then go to a city with more jobs and a
university where he could study.

"It's very difficult to work in Mexico when you don't have a career, when you
just work in the fields or in the farms," said the high school graduate and day
laborer, who finished a three-year lay minister training through the Diocese of
San Jose.

He smiles as he says he hopes to continue helping young people through a
Christian youth group in Mexico as he has here.

"Many guys are in gangs and they don't understand life very well, and I try to
help them be good people."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 10, 2007 Monday

50 march in support of rights for immigrants

BYLINE: By Leslie Griffy Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 449 words


Activists on both sides of the immigration debate took to San Jose streets on
Sunday.

Both groups converged downtown at City Hall, but they didn't run into each
other.

Marking the 59th anniversary of the United Nations' adoption of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, members of Voluntarios De La Comunidad held their
third annual 10-mile march for immigrants' rights.

"People need to take action," said Jose Sandoval, a coordinator with the group.
"And this is an important way to get the issues into their consciousness."

He and other marchers handed out 5,000 fliers describing the concepts of
freedom, equality, dignity and brotherhood promised in the declaration.

Current U.S. laws, the group believes, don't respect the rights of immigrant
workers. As immigration reform remains stalled in Congress, the organization is
pushing for legislation that would allow for family reunification and a route to
citizenship for illegal immigrants.

Sandoval's mission to raise awareness started before the group even left the Mi
Pueblo parking lot on Story and King roads to begin the march. Sandoval noticed
a friend leaving the store and invited him to meet up with group members as they
made their loop through some of the city's largely Latino neighborhoods on the
way to City Hall.

Indeed, the group that left the parking lot about 1 p.m. numbered about 20. By
2:30 p.m., it had swelled to more than 50 people, who chanted as they marched
through the streets.

As the group marched in the afternoon sun, a dozen members of the Minutemen, an
anti-illegal-immigration group, waved American flags at City Hall beginning
about noon. They carried signs warning about the cost of illegal immigration and
"Don't Tread on Me" flags, and occasionally a driver honked for the group.

"The American Dream is that a family works hard and lives in a single-family
home," said Steve Kemp, vice president of the Minutemen of Castro Valley.
Illegal immigrants, he said, drive down wages and use tax money, keeping
citizens from achieving those goals. "We're ticked off about it."

The two groups didn't get to exchange ideas about the American Dream or the
dream to live without discrimination and fear of deportation.

The Minutemen left City Hall about 2 p.m. while the marchers continued to make
their way through town.

By the time pro-immigration forces arrived, it was just past 5 p.m. And many of
the marchers had peeled off from the group before the afternoon warmth gave way
to a chilly evening.

Still, the 15 or so who remained kept their enthusiasm, chanting "Si se puede"
(Yes, we can) as they crossed Santa Clara Street to the steps of City Hall.

Contact Leslie Griffy at lgriffy@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5945.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Latinos feel stress of debate on immigration

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung and Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 372 words


As the debate over immigration reform continues, more than half of Latinos in
the United States worry that a relative or close friend will be deported,
according to a nationwide survey released Thursday.

In several aspects, the Pew Hispanic Center has found that two-thirds of the
Latinos it surveyed feel that Congress' failure to enact immigration reform
twice in the past two years has had negative effects on Latinos, regardless of
their legal status.

Roughly half of all Latinos surveyed said the increased public attention on
immigration issues has negatively affected them in one or more ways. About 41
percent say a family member or close friend has experienced discrimination in
the past five years. This represented a change from 2002, when 31 percent
responded to the same question.

But the Pew Center also found that 64 percent of native-born Latinos tend to see
the impact of illegal immigrants as a plus, up 10 percent from the same survey
five years ago, an attitude that seemed to follow on the streets of downtown San
Jose.

"I know people who are here illegally, and they are doing their best to work
hard and make a better life for themselves," said Angelica Rubio of East Palo
Alto, who is of Mexican descent and was born in California.

Most immigrants fall in that category, she said, but "if they are being lazy and
living off other people, they shouldn't be here."

More than half of Latinos say discrimination is a major problem, while 24
percent view it as minor. Again, that perception has grown since 2002, when 44
percent said discrimination was a major problem.

Almost half of those surveyed blamed language for any discrimination they've
experienced, while 22 percent said immigration status and 16 percent viewed
education and income as the cause.

"In the USA, there's a lot of people from all over the world," said Mario
Herrera Cano of San Jose, who is in the United States to make money to send home
to his wife and children in Mexico. "They want to live a little more better."

The non-partisan research center conducted the telephone survey from Oct. 3 to
Nov. 9 among a randomly selected, nationally representative sample of 2,003
Hispanic adults. The margin of error was plus or minus 2.7 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 17, 2007 Monday

Has Assembly Speaker Fabian N&uacute;ñez traded ideals for power?

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Politics

LENGTH: 1701 words


SACRAMENTO - Fabian Núñez felt betrayed.

It was 1993 and the immigrant rights activist was fuming: A lawmaker for East
Los Angeles, a Mexican-American Democrat, wanted to stop California from issuing
driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants. Núñez wrote and called Assemblyman
Louis Caldera demanding an explanation, but the legislator only confirmed his
decision to co-author the measure.

"I couldn't believe what I was hearing," Núñez recalled.

After hanging up, Núñez did something he never expected: He crossed the trench
from political observer to political insider, eventually running for Assembly on
a pro-immigrant platform, in Caldera's old district.

Today, the 40-year-old charismatic, ambitious and liberal legislator is speaker
of the California Assembly, arguably the second most powerful politician in
Sacramento and the most influential Latino politician in the state. His résumé
is packed with internationally renowned achievements from 2006, including his
and his colleagues' laws to reduce global warming, raise the minimum wage and
make prescription drugs more affordable.

But as he completes his fourth year as leader of the 80-member house, Núñez has
hit an unexpected skid that could threaten his political future.

Spending breeds turmoil

The Tijuana-reared son of a gardener and maid is in turmoil over extravagant
spending on first-class travel, fine wine and purchases at high-priced retailers
such as a Louis Vuitton store in Paris, a surprising revelation about someone
who has fashioned himself a champion of the poor.

Núñez insists the campaign expenses were legal, ethical and directly related to
invitations from dignitaries for whom he bought gifts. But his foes await the
results of an investigation by the state's Fair Political Practices Commission.

Others say the flap only exposes a deeper question that persists about Núñez:
Has this once-tireless advocate for the working class - who as a child was so
poor he borrowed his sisters' clothes, who dropped out of college to support his
pregnant girlfriend - abandoned his core causes and humble roots for political
power and a lavish lifestyle?

"As an overall picture of what's going on," said Juan José Gutiérrez, a Los
Angeles immigrant rights activist who hired Núñez in the late 1980s and has
closely followed his career, "a lot of us scratch our heads and say, 'Well, what
happened here?' "

In many ways what happened is a familiar story about the clash of idealism and
political reality. How does one remain loyal to old constituents and causes in
the face of political ambition that dictates serving broader interests? And how
does one retain the appearance of humility while being required to move
effectively and effortlessly in a world of deep-pocketed movers and shakers?

Núñez was born in a San Diego county hospital - the 10th of 12 children born to
Pablo and Soledad Núñez, who lived in Tijuana and commuted to jobs across the
border.

"This is where my political views were shaped, while I was here living in this
tiny two-bedroom home," Núñez said on a recent visit to his old Buena Vista
neighborhood. "This is where I began to develop my core, who I am as a person,
my beliefs, and I think a sense of mission, too."

As a child, Núñez had a passion for learning, and dreaming a big dream.

"When we would ask what he wanted to be, he said, 'I'm going to be president of
the United States,' " said eldest sister Alicia López, 55, who lives in Tijuana.

When he was 7, his father, a former bracero farmworker with U.S. residency,
moved the family to San Diego's Logan Heights, known for poverty, drugs and
gangs.

Núñez was a student crossing guard and president of his junior high. In high
school, he ran cross-country, boxed and, his mother said, took Spanish classes
to perfect the language. He entered the University of California-San Diego in
1985 prepared to change the world, organizing campus demonstrations against an
"English-only" initiative and fighting for farmworkers.

Road to Assembly

But Núñez dropped out in a crisis: His girlfriend, a nurse named Maria Robles,
was pregnant.

He became a security guard, then took a job teaching English as a Second
Language to Mexican and Salvadoran immigrants. Still in his 20s, he was promoted
to manage One Stop Immigration's branch in Pomona and its $1 million budget.

Along the way, the couple had their son, Esteban, and were married and later
divorced. Núñez graduated from Pitzer College in Claremont, and became political
director of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, then lobbyist for the
Los Angeles Unified School District, from 2000 to 2002.

Labor unions and immigration rights groups vaulted Núñez into the Assembly in
late 2002.

His first bill sought to require state agencies to accept identification cards
issued by foreign consulates as official ID, commonly used by undocumented
immigrants. He also co-wrote a bill with his political mentor, Sen. Gil Cedillo,
D-Los Angeles, to restore licenses to illegal immigrants.

Both measures failed - his idealism rebuffed by political reality.

By the end of that first year, however, Núñez emerged as the leading candidate
for speaker.

Advocates then began to observe a political transformation. Núñez now seemed
less interested in old causes that can define a local lawmaker and more
interested in the broader policies necessary to be an effective Assembly
speaker.

As part of his transformation, Núñez in 2004 ditched his oval-frame glasses for
eye surgery, and began to favor Italian Ermenegildo Zegna pin-striped suits.

Working with governor

In 2005, he spent much of his time publicly attacking Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger's anti-labor union reform agenda. But at the same time, oddly,
they developed a friendly relationship.

Schwarzenegger would invite Núñez for cigars in the Republican governor's
Capitol smoking tent. Núñez took the governor to a favorite restaurant in East
Los Angeles. Schwarzenegger invited Núñez to watch movies at his Brentwood
estate.

After the initiatives were defeated, Schwarzenegger adopted Democratic measures,
to the dismay of his key supporters.

At the top of the list was AB 32 to reduce greenhouse gases - a crucial
environmental issue Núñez knew "zero" about when he entered the Assembly, noted
a close associate.

The measure, signed into law in 2006, did wonders for Núñez and Schwarzenegger,
who glowed side-by-side at news conferences.

"His political acumen is superior to people that have been there 10, 15 years,"
Núñez says of Schwarzenegger. "He really has good instincts for this, he really
does. Too bad he's a Republican, he should be a Democrat. He's in the wrong
(expletive) party."

Schwarzenegger, 60, showers Núñez with praise.

"He's interested in what's best for the people," Schwarzenegger says, "rather
than just what's best for the party." And he added that he admires Núñez because
he comprehends the challenges Schwarzenegger faces with his more conservative
constituents.

Their tight relationship has empowered Núñez and made him more effective. But it
also has further distanced him from some pro-immigrant supporters who wonder
whether the governor has supplanted Cedillo as the speaker's mentor.

Núñez never reintroduced the identification card measure that was a highlight of
his first year. He never again co-authored Cedillo's numerous attempts at
passing the driver's license law.

Núñez scoffs at the notion he's abandoned the immigrant cause.

"I've never deviated; my views on those issues are very clear," Núñez said. "But
I have to look at larger issues."

While he used to regularly meet with immigrants lobbying for legislation, he's
now as prone to focus on poll results that show voter sentiment on those same
issues is generally unpopular.

"I think he's lost touch with reality and his constituency," said John
Fernandez, a high school teacher in Boyle Heights, east of downtown Los Angeles,
who once served on One Stop's board. "He was basically seduced by power and
money, and I think that's really been problematic for him, and I think he's in
trouble."

Other advocates disagree.

"Assembly Speaker Núñez has a long history of standing up for workers and
low-income families during budget battles in Sacramento, and he's often sided
with California's most vulnerable communities, especially to provide them health
care," said Isabel Alegría, with the California Immigrant Policy Center.

Núñez says being speaker is more demanding than most people think - he's
expected to raise at least $16 million every two years to keep Democrats in
power, and simply can't meet with all the people he used to associate with.

"I put a lot of time into this job and I have very little time for my kids, and
not enough time in my district as I would like," said Núñez, a father of three,
"but that's the choice one makes when you become speaker."

The real Núñez

Núñez now finds himself in a precarious position. In less than two months,
Californians will vote on Proposition 93, a term limits measure that allows some
incumbents, including Núñez, to serve six more years.

The initiative's opponents call Núñez the poster child of the measure, using
words such as "imperialistic."

Núñez, who says he doesn't know what will become of his future if the Feb. 5
initiative fails, is scrambling to improve his image.

Over the past two months he canceled international trips and supports a proposal
created in the aftermath of his expense controversy, which would require
legislators to more specifically disclose purchases on campaign accounts.

"I have to have a higher standard for myself now," he said.

There's one place Núñez doesn't need to rehab his image. He recently stopped by
his parents' modest San Diego home for a bowl of his beloved pozole, or soup.
This, his siblings and wife insist, is the real Fabian Núñez, the same
down-to-earth guy he's always been, the one who concludes annual Assembly
sessions by publicly thanking his $200,000 chief of staff and the janitors who
clean his office.

"He's very simple," said Robles, whom he remarried two years ago after an
11-year divorce. "He continues to be inspired by the same issues he was inspired
by as a young man. He does wear nicer suits now than before."

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 66th Speaker of California Assembly Fabian Nunez, his older brother
Mario Nunez (far left) his brother in law Ismael Sandoval (center) react while
watching a soccer game at his mother's house in San Diego on Nov 15, 2007. (Dai
Sugano/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

EU pursues educated immigrants

BYLINE: By Craig Barrett

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 685 words


The European Union took a step recently that the U.S. Congress can't seem to
muster the courage to take. By proposing a simple change in immigration policy,
EU politicians served notice that they are serious about competing with the
United States and Asia to attract the world's top talent to live, work and
innovate in Europe. With Congress in gridlock on immigration, it's clear that
the next Silicon Valley will not be in the United States.

European politicians face many of the same political pressures surrounding
immigration as their U.S. counterparts, and they, too, are not immune to these
pressures. Nationalist and anti-immigrant factions in several Western European
countries have made political gains in recent elections and are widely viewed as
mainstream. Despite the hot-button nature of immigration issues, however, EU
politicians advanced the "Blue Card" proposal in October.

The plan is designed to attract highly educated workers by creating a temporary
but renewable two-year visa. A streamlined application process allows qualified
prospective workers to navigate the system and start working in high-need jobs
within one to three months.

This contrasts starkly with the byzantine system in place in the United States,
which increasingly threatens America's long-term competitiveness.

The United States relies primarily on two programs to augment the workforce with
highly educated, highly skilled foreign professionals. The H-1B visa is a
three-year temporary visa that can be renewed once. The employment-based "green
card" is the program for permanent residency. Both programs serve the needs of
employers seeking to fill job vacancies in highly skilled professions. Extreme
shortages of visas in both these programs are well documented.

H-1B visas, which are capped at 85,000 per year, are now gone in one day, with
the "winners" determined by lottery.

The green card program has an annual allotment of 140,000 visas; these are
allocated equally across all countries around the world, regardless of
population. The inflexible country quotas mean that professionals from countries
such as China and India are almost always at a disadvantage, finding themselves
stuck in a system - often for five to 10 years - in which they cannot seek
promotions and raises. Spouses and children count against the quota, which has
not been raised since 1990. And even though they count against the quota of
foreign workers allowed to come here, spouses are inexplicably forbidden to
work, no matter their level of education and skill.

The U.S. system forces thousands of valuable foreign-born professionals -
including badly needed researchers, scientists, teachers and engineers - into
legal and professional limbo for years. Not surprisingly, many are considering
opportunities in competitor nations - even those who have lived in the United
States for years and have graduated from American universities.

To be competitive in the global economy, U.S. companies depend on specialized
talent coming out of U.S. graduate schools. These scientists and engineers are
often foreign-born, as more than half of U.S. engineering master's students and
Ph.D. recipients are international students. Yet America shuts the door on many
of these graduates, forcing them to look abroad for opportunities - and our
competitors are capitalizing on our failed policies.

EU leaders recognize that the top minds coming out of universities in the United
States and other countries can help to reinvigorate European industry and enable
it to create the next wave of businesses that drive innovation and economic
growth.

While its Blue Card proposal still requires approval by member countries, Europe
has sent a message. It intends to aggressively pursue the professional talent
necessary to compete on the global stage. The United States, on the other hand,
seems intent on driving away the very same talent the European Union is rolling
out the red carpet to welcome.CRAIG BARRETT is chairman of Intel Corp., which
employs about 2,000 H-1B visa holders among its 86,000 workers worldwide. He
wrote this article for the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 6, 2008 Sunday

Domestic violence act may not apply to illegal immigrants seeking citizenship

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Peninsula; San Jose - Valley;
Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 1015 words


More than a decade ago, Congress passed a law providing a path to citizenship
for certain married immigrants who were victims of domestic violence. The hope
was to keep them from suffering in silence, too afraid to report the crime
because they might risk being forced from their new home.

But now, immigration attorneys are advising clients who entered the United
States illegally not to seek the full benefits of the law, amid growing concerns
that the government's new interpretation of which immigrants are eligible will
put them on a path out of the country instead.

Those concerns have taken on new urgency in recent months - and lawmakers are
calling for answers - as immigration officials have either rejected or
indefinitely put on hold several applications for permanent residency.

One San Jose woman who accused her husband of beating and sexually assaulting
her was among those denied, and she now fears she'll have to return to Mexico.

"I did everything I was told to do to become a citizen," the 26-year-old, who is
working with Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto, told the Mercury News.
"They now say it's not enough. I'm scared."

Immigration officials last week maintained that nothing had changed in their
approach to the 1994 Violence Against Women Act, which allows qualifying
immigrants who are married to U.S. citizens or legal U.S. residents to begin the
lengthy process of obtaining citizenship without the help of their spouses.

The law and several revisions were created so victims could report crimes
without fear that their abusers would hold their immigration status against them
and silence them with threats of deportation. There is no dispute on how the law
applies to legal immigrants.

However, an issue has arisen over whether the law was meant to create a special
process for illegal immigrants because those immigrants would normally have to
leave the country first to become eligible for permanent residency. Lawmakers
like Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who have
written to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services seeking answers, say that
penalty should not apply in the case of domestic violence victims.

But federal immigration officials are arguing that the Violence Against Women
Act and its revisions don't include special provisions for illegal immigrants.
They note that illegal immigrants should be required to return to their home
countries to get a visa, with the added restriction that if they have lived in
the United States illegally for a year or more, they cannot return for 10 years.

San Jose woman's case

That would apply to the San Jose woman. The woman, whose name is being withheld
because the Mercury News doesn't identify victims of sex crimes, sneaked into
the country in 2003 to join her siblings.

Soon after, she met her husband, a Mexican native living in the United States
legally. Almost immediately after their marriage, she said, he began coming home
drunk and abusing her. She and their daughter, now 3, left him about a year ago.

The woman then took the first step toward citizenship, which includes getting
federal approval to apply for residency as a domestic violence victim. The
approval - which hinges on a detailed account of the abuse, which would include
police reports and court documents - allows victims to continue to work in the
country and to obtain a driver's license.

Denied requests

It was only when she was interviewed a few months ago for the next step in the
process, the application for permanent residency, that her illegal entry into
the county was discovered and her request denied. Her attorney is now appealing
the decision.

"I think this interpretation flies in the face of congressional intent," said
her attorney, Mary Dutcher of Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto. "It's
hard to think what is reason and logic, and cause and effect in this world of
immigration."

Spokesman Chris Bentley said immigration services Director Emilio Gonzalez would
respond to lawmakers' concerns directly, but he provided no timetable.

While immigration officials say they have been consistent in their
interpretation of the domestic violence law, immigration-rights advocates say
illegal immigrants were treated more leniently under its provisions until
August, when an e-mail reportedly went out to immigration officials around the
country advising them to turn down applications for anyone who entered the
country illegally, regardless of whether they were victims of domestic violence.

The e-mail came just as the Bush administration was announcing a renewed push to
enforce immigration laws. Susan Bowyer, the managing attorney for the
Oakland-based International Institute of the Bay Area, said immigration
officials who process applications read excerpts of the e-mail to members of her
staff.

Bentley, however, said he was unaware of any e-mail and added that there are
several reasons to deny a residency application, including misdemeanor
convictions for crimes such as petty theft. He added that he couldn't comment
specifically on any of the denied cases.

It's unknown exactly how many applicants have so far been denied or held across
the country, but based on anecdotal evidence, advocates and attorneys say
they've seen dozens during the past few months.

In her letter, Lofgren wrote that Congress made an exception for domestic
violence victims in one of its immigration revisions, and that any other
interpretations of the law "flies in the face" of plain language.

Advocates and attorneys are hoping the matter is resolved soon, but in the
meantime, they're suggesting their clients take only the first step - getting
federal approval to apply for permanent residency as a domestic violence victim
- so they can continue to work in the United States legally.

Attorneys say they will suggest that their clients renew their work permits as
often as they can until the issue is cleared up.

Added Bowyer: "What really scares me is there are a lot of people unknowingly
blundering into this situation."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 14, 2008 Thursday

Mexican president pushes immigrant rights on visit to Sacramento

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL; World; State; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 1068 words


SACRAMENTO - Mexican President Felipe Calderón pleaded Wednesday for California
to recognize that immigration should be "legal, safe and organized," yet he also
sought to assure state lawmakers that his government does not encourage its
residents to migrate to the United States.

"While my government is committed to protecting the rights of all Mexicans,
including those living beyond our borders, we are taking great efforts," he
said, "to ensure that in the future no Mexican needs to leave our country to
find job opportunities elsewhere."

"I am a president who is not glad to see Mexicans migrating to the United
States."

Calderón's comments to a joint session of the Legislature came in the middle of
a nearly weeklong tour of several cities from coast to coast - his first visit
to the United States as president - where he has highlighted the need to
restructure the immigration system and scheduled meetings with groups of Mexican
nationals in places such as Chicago, Los Angeles and Sonoma.

While careful not to mention the word "illegal" or "undocumented" in his
19-minute address, which he delivered in English, Calderón has long been a
staunch supporter of several failed efforts in Congress to legalize the status
of millions of immigrants who either overstayed their visas or sneaked across
the border.

In many ways, Calderón's speech was similar to the address former President
Vicente Fox delivered to the Legislature in May 2006. Both leaders said their
administrations were profoundly improving the Mexican economy in a way that
would curb future immigration.

Though some legislators may dispute that statement, particularly Republicans who
have failed at numerous attempts to pass laws to discourage illegal immigration,
they restrained from publicly protesting Calderón's speech. During Fox's visit,
several Republicans either skipped the speech or wore buttons with the words "No
más," referring to policies they believe encourage illegal immigration.

Assemblyman John Benoit, R-Riverside, called the speech "cordial" and
"optimistic," and believes that Calderón, in the second year of a six-year term,
will make strides at reducing illegal immigration.

"I think he meant it when he said he doesn't want to see those people leaving,"
said Benoit, who has proposed legislation to pressure the federal government to
compensate California for the cost of incarcerating illegal immigrants.

Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez, D-Los Angeles, who along with Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger invited Calderón to Sacramento, was upbeat after the speech.

"President Calderón demonstrated today he's got the right approach to solving
illegal immigration by working to improve economic conditions in Mexico," Núñez
said in a prepared statement. "That's why he's working on improving the pension
system and it's why he's working on making sure he keeps inflation down."

Early in his address, Calderón reminded legislators of the common roots, history
and economy that bind Mexico and California, a relationship, he said, that
benefits both sides.

Quoting from a study by the Council of Economic Advisers, who report to
President Bush, Calderón said immigrant workers don't displace American workers
and contribute more in taxes than they receive in public services.

"I know that immigration is a controversial issue today in this great nation,"
he said. "But I strongly believe that Mexican and Mexican-American workers are a
large reason for the dynamic economy in California."

Calderón, a former Mexican energy secretary who earned a master's degree from
Harvard, invited the senators and Assembly members to work with his
administration to find long-lasting solutions to immigration.

"We are at a historical turning point," he said. "Future generations will judge
us by the decisions we take today. Did we work together to provide organized and
humane migration, or did we continue to allow hundreds to die each year?"

While Mexican citizens receive more than $23 billion a year sent by family
members abroad - mostly from the United States - Calderón tried to dispel the
notion that Mexico encourages migration to fuel its economy.

Migration, he said, separates thousands of families and "carries off the best
among us: our bravest, our youngest and our strongest people." He said his
administration was "working really hard" to create conditions that can lead to
well-paid jobs within Mexico.

Calderón and first lady Margarita Zavala arrived in Sacramento on Tuesday night
after visiting Boston, New York and Chicago.

The president met privately with the Latino Legislative Caucus, Núñez,
Republican and Democratic legislative leaders and Schwarzenegger.

In another meeting, cabinet officials from both governments, Mexico and
California, signed a memorandum of understanding to formalize a working
relationship on environmental issues such as air-quality monitoring.

"I'm so fond of you because you believe very strongly in building the economy
but at the same time protecting the environment," Schwarzenegger told Calderón
during the signing ceremony in the Cabinet Room.

Schwarzenegger, who visited Mexico on a trade mission in November 2006, weeks
before Calderón took office, told Calderón he looked forward to another trade
mission, though a date hasn't been established.

The leaders attended a luncheon in the president's honor, then Calderón shuttled
to Sonoma County to visit Robledo Family Winery, whose founder is a former
migrant worker from the president's home state, Michoacán.

With rolling hills and rows of grape vines as the backdrop, Calderón said he
would like to work with Schwarzenegger and the federal government to establish a
program for immigrant workers.

Speaking in Spanish to a group of Mexican migrant workers and winemakers
gathered for the event, Calderón said, "We came to be here with you to defend
thousands of families of Mexican workers that are here because of a natural
phenomenon, that compliments the economy of the U.S. and the economy of Mexico.
If we want to seek prosperity for our cities we have to have this prosperity
together."

Robledo said it was rewarding to have the work of Mexicans recognized by
Calderon.

"I feel very happy and proud," Robledo said, also speaking in Spanish. "This is
a historic day to have the president see us here."

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

Bay Area News Group Staff Writer Sarah Terry-Cobo contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The president of Mexico, Felipe Calderon Hinojosa, meets and greets
guests on the floor of California's State Assembly Wednesday morning, Feb
13th.Calderon, introduced by Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez and Senate Majority
Leader Gloria Romero, talked politely about security, sustainable development,
and mentioned mutual benefits of immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday

Phoenix finds sweet spot of immigration enforcement policy

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 608 words


You can't please everyone. But when it comes to immigration reform, you're not
on the right track until you're not pleasing anyone.

The Phoenix Police Department has adopted a new immigration enforcement policy
that is taking torpedoes from those who think it goes too far and from those who
insist it doesn't go far enough. That's our first clue that the folks in the
Valley of the Sun might have found the sweet spot.

The policy change, recommended by a panel of former government prosecutors and
implemented by Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon, allows officers to question anyone
suspected of a crime about their immigration status and gives officers the
discretion about whether to notify federal immigration officials. But it
prohibits officers from posing such questions to crime victims, witnesses or
anyone stopped for civil violations such as speeding.

Immigrant-rights activists, Latino lawyer associations and civil libertarians
condemn the policy change, calling it a sop to xenophobia. They worry about
racial profiling and prefer the previous policy, in effect for more than 10
years, which barred officers from asking about immigration status in most cases.
The Phoenix police union denounces the new policy as "smoke and mirrors." It
wants officers to be able to make judgments about who is in the country
illegally - using the standard of "reasonable suspicion," a lower threshold
employed by immigration authorities.

So who is right and who is wrong? That's easy. The city is right and the critics
are wrong.

I've long been opposed to local police officers playing Border Patrol agents.
For me, the best argument is the one advanced by the hundreds of police chiefs
who have resisted having their officers commandeered into the enforcement of
immigration law - that, by making people afraid to go to the cops for help, you
create ready-made victims to be preyed upon by bad guys and actually increase
crime instead of curbing it.

But that doesn't mean local police should never cooperate with immigration
authorities. That would only add credence to the myth that there are all these
"sanctuary cities" in the United States where illegal immigrants can live out
their days sipping margaritas with no fear of being deported no matter what
crimes they commit.

That is not the case. In most cities in America, if an illegal immigrant is
arrested and charged with a crime, he is almost certain to find himself with an
immigration "hold" placed on him while federal officials are notified. Often, he
will be deported.

What concerns me is a scenario where local police officers, who lack the more
than 20 weeks of specialized training that Border Patrol agents receive, tell
themselves they're Wyatt Earp and try to clean up Anytown USA by removing
illegal immigrants or anyone they think is an illegal immigrant. Before long,
you've got U.S.-born Hispanics caught up in that dragnet.

Think that couldn't happen? It already has, in - how's this for irony - a suburb
about 20 miles southeast of Phoenix. In July 1997, the Chandler Police
Department allowed its officers to pair up with Border Patrol agents over
several days to conduct a citywide roundup of suspected illegal immigrants. They
caught about 400 of them, but not without also harassing and apprehending a
number of U.S.-born Hispanics. The result was condemnation by the state attorney
general's office, a series of lawsuits and a stain on the city's reputation.

Your tax dollars at work. There are those who say we have to evict illegal
immigrants to preserve our civilization. But there's nothing civilized about
comments like those.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 7, 2008 Friday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 323 words


NEW YORK

Latino immigrants push

action on citizenship

A lawsuit filed Thursday in a New York federal court by Latino immigrants seeks
to force immigration authorities to complete thousands of stalled naturalization
petitions in time for the new citizens to vote in November.

The class-action suit was brought by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund on behalf of legal Latino immigrants in the New York City area
who are eager to vote and have been waiting for years for the federal
Citizenship and Immigration Services agency to finish their applications. The
suit demands that the agency meet a nationwide Sept. 22 deadline.

According to the Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan research group, more
than 1 million citizenship petitions were backed up by the end of December, the
majority from Latino immigrants.

Ziff Davis Media seeks

bankruptcy protection

Ziff Davis Media, publisher of technology and video game magazines, filed for
bankruptcy Wednesday and cited a decrease in revenue from print advertising and
subscriptions.

The company said it expected to reorganize and exit court protection by summer.

New York-based Ziff Davis said in a court filing that it had about $500 million
in debt and $313 million worth of assets, as of the end of December. It filed
for Chapter 11 protection to restructure debt that had become burdensome.

The company publishes PC Magazine and Electronic Gaming Monthly.

NORTH CAROLINA

Student leader found

shot to death on street

The University of North Carolina student body president was found shot to death
on a city street in what police said Thursday appeared to be a random crime.

Thousands of students gathered on campus to mourn Eve Marie Carson, whose body
was discovered about a mile away early Wednesday. The 22-year-old senior from
Athens, Ga., had been shot several times, police said. Officials said there are
no suspects.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 28, 2008 Monday

Editorial: Keep Guard on border a while longer but pursue real reform

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Opinion

LENGTH: 237 words


Dispatching the National Guard to the Mexican border is no substitute for a
permanent Border Patrol. And a larger Border Patrol is no substitute for a
comprehensive immigration policy that includes a temporary visa program for farm
workers.

But President Bush's short-term fix, sending in the National Guard, has helped
cut down on illegal crossings. That's why Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and the
governors of Arizona and New Mexico repeated their call last week for extending
the Guard's duties past the June 1 end of the program. Congress should fund it
another year.

Bush announced the 6,000-troop deployment in 2006 as a stopgap while boosting
the size of the Border Patrol from 12,000 to 18,000. Critics worried about
militarizing the border. But the National Guard has not been intercepting border
crossers.

It has provided technical help for the Border Patrol, and its presence has been
a deterrent. Apprehensions have dropped by two-thirds, even though the
administration began scaling back the number of Guard members last fall. About
600 California National Guard members now work along the state's border.

Homeland Security promised to hire 6,000 new agents by June, but it has deployed
only half that number.

In opposing immigration reforms, congressional Republicans argued that securing
the border must come first. So keep the Guard there for another six months to a
year, and renew the discussions on true reform.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 5, 2008 Monday

Immigration rights advocates protest ICE raids on local businesses

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 293 words


Immigrant rights advocates and religious leaders are congregating today in front
of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's San Francisco office to
protest recent raids in the Bay Area.

Labor union members, workers, students and several community organizations are
also attending the protest to call for an end to the raids, which they say tear
families apart and criminalize work.

"As people of faith, we stand in support of our immigrant sisters and brothers,"
the Rev. Brenda Vaca, of San Francisco's Nueva Vida Ministries, said in a
statement. "We also call for transformation of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement from being an institution of fear and terror to a public institution
that promotes and respects the rights and dignity of people within our borders."

The protest was prompted by raids Friday by ICE agents during which 63 employees
of a Bay Area Mexican restaurant chain were arrested for allegedly being in the
country illegally.

Employees at 11 Taqueria El Balazo locations were taken into custody to be
photographed, fingerprinted and processed, according to ICE officials.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for ICE, said the raids were part of an ongoing
criminal investigation.

"It's our responsibility to enforce our nation's immigration and customs law and
we'll continue to do that," Kice said.

By Saturday all but 10 of those detained during Friday's raids had been released
pending future immigration proceedings, according to Kice.

A suspected gang member was still detained, as well as five individuals who
refused the option of electronic monitoring and three juveniles, she said.

Copyright © 2008 by Bay City News, Inc. - republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 9, 2008 Friday

Youth minister facing deportation says he'll return to Mexico

BYLINE: By Cody Kraatz Sunnyvale Sun

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 214 words


Lucio Caciano, who was arrested at his Sunnyvale home in October 2007 after
living in California illegally for 15 years, told an immigration judge in San
Francisco that he will return to Mexico within three months.

The leader of a Hispanic youth group at St. Athanasius Catholic Church in
Mountain View, his arrest garnered a lot of attention and generated debate about
immigration policy. Despite his religious leadership, he was not able to stay on
a religious visa.

He said he plans to fly to Mexico City to study philosophy in a seminary there,
pursuing a religious path he has long considered. Meanwhile, he plans to spend
time with the church community and other friends. If he does not leave by Sept.
3, he could be forcibly deported.

"I thought very hard about this decision,'' said Caciano.

He has been living in California for 15 years, three of them with close friends
in the Lakewood neighborhood of north Sunnyvale. He was arrested in October 2007
at his home by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents who were looking for
someone else.

"By his leaving there is a great loss to the Hispanic community of St.
Athanasius,'' said Rosa Mancilla, a fellow parishioner.

See the full story in the Sunnyvale Sun.

Contact Cody Kraatz at ckraatz@community-newspapers.com or (408) 200-1061.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 10, 2008 Saturday

Bay Area News in Brief

BYLINE: Bay Area News Group and Santa Cruz Sentinel

SECTION: LOCAL; News

LENGTH: 518 words


SUNNYVALE Church leader says

he'll return to Mexico Lucio Caciano, who was arrested at his Sunnyvale home in
October after living in California illegally for 15 years, told an immigration
judge in San Francisco that he will return to Mexico within three months.

The arrest of Caciano, the leader of a Latino youth group at St. Athanasius
Catholic Church in Mountain View, garnered much attention and generated debate
about immigration policy. Despite his religious leadership, he was not able to
stay on a religious visa.

He said he plans to fly to Mexico City to study philosophy in a seminary there,
pursuing a religious path he has long considered. Meanwhile, he plans to spend
time with the church community and other friends. If he does not leave by Sept.
3, he could be forcibly deported.

- Cody Kraatz,Bay Area News Group

SAN FRANCISCO Two plead not guilty

to murder charges A San Francisco couple arrested in early April in Mexico in
connection with the December slaying of their housemate pleaded not guilty to
murder and accessory to murder charges Friday in San Francisco Superior Court.

Richard Carelli and Michelle Pinkerton, both 38, have been in custody since
their April 7 arrest in Mexico. They are accused of fleeing San Francisco in
late January while police investigated the killing of Leonard Milo Hoskins, 49.

Hoskins' body was found in a van impounded by police during the investigation,
but not before Carelli and Pinkerton had left San Francisco with their two
daughters, 6-year-old Viana and infant Faith, who live with Pinkerton's
relatives in Santa Cruz County.

The family lived under the radar in Mexico for more than two months before a San
Diego reporter and adventurer started searching for them in early April, found
them and alerted authorities.

- Jennifer Squires,Santa Cruz SentinelSANTA CRUZ Anti-Semitic markings

found at UC campusAnti-Semitic graffiti similar to an image recently discovered
at University of California-Santa Cruz's Oakes College was found on a stall in a
men's restroom at the university's Porter College this week, UC-Santa Cruz
officials disclosed Friday.

The image of a Star of David between what appears to be the World Trade Center
towers was discovered Tuesday, documented by police and removed.

The incident brings to three the number of hate-bias graffiti cases reported on
campus in recent weeks.

The graffiti outside an Oakes classroom was discovered April 30 and the phrase
"white power" was found scrawled outside a residence hall at Cowell College on
April 20.

Campus police are coordinating with city police to determine if the graffiti is
related to swastika symbols found Thursday outside Emily's Bakery, a shop owned
by Assembly candidate and Santa Cruz City Councilwoman Emily Reilly.
Anti-Semitic graffiti also has been reported in the city's Harvey West area
since March.

Rick Zinman, executive director of the Jewish education organization Santa Cruz
Hillel, said he could only speculate about the vandalism's timing.

"You can't prevent this kind of stuff," he said. "We're trying to focus on parts
we can control."

- J.M. Brown,Santa Cruz Sentinel

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday

House votes to send economic stimulus checks to excluded troops

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 858 words


The House of Representatives on Tuesday voted unanimously to give tax rebates to
tens of thousands of U.S. troops overseas who were denied the money in Congress'
bungled attempt to send a message about illegal immigration.

But the bill rushed through the House on a 403-0 vote does nothing to help
hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants in Silicon Valley and elsewhere who
also were denied rebate checks.

When Congress passed an economic-stimulus package in early February giving hefty
rebates to most taxpayers, it tried to ensure that illegal immigrants didn't get
any of the money. But in doing so lawmakers inadvertently penalized about a
million legal immigrants - and U.S. service members stationed overseas - simply
because their foreign spouses lack a Social Security number. Hundreds of
thousands of H-1B work visa holders are also not getting checks for the same
reason.

The problem was first detailed in a Mercury News article earlier this month as
the government began electronically depositing the rebates in bank accounts.

"This is a good first step, but everyone in Congress knows this is not enough,"
said Paul Donnelly, a longtime pro-immigration advocate in Washington, D.C.
"There are thousands and thousands of law-abiding immigrants in the greater San
Jose area who are now being stiffed for 1,200 bucks. Congress needs to fix
this."

No SSN, no rebate

Parveen Kumar of Sunnyvale, an H-1B visa holder from India who works as an
engineer at Intelliswift Software in Fremont, agreed.

"I'm happy that the soldiers are getting the money, but this is not just a
matter of rebate checks. It's a matter of justice," he said. "Why should we be
treated like illegal immigrants?"

His wife is on a visa that doesn't allow her to work, so she's not eligible for
a Social Security card.

Congressional sources said Tuesday that a "fix" for legal immigrants has not
gone beyond the talking stage because the issue has been wrapped up in the
larger, oft-times poisonous debate over immigration.

At the urging of anti-illegal-immigration groups such as the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, the Senate Finance Committee in early February
inserted language into the rebate bill aimed at illegal immigrants who don't
have Social Security numbers and instead routinely use "tax identification
numbers."

The Internal Revenue Service rules are strict. If a married couple files a joint
tax return and one spouse doesn't have a Social Security number, both spouses
are ineligible for a rebate, which can be as high as $1,200 for a couple. They
also lose an additional $300 rebate for each child.

"We feel like second-class taxpayers," said Vivek Jayanand, 31, an engineer at
Marvell Semiconductors in Santa Clara whose wife lives in India, awaiting a
visa.

More than 288,000 troops are stationed overseas, according to the Pentagon - not
counting those in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many live in places - Korea, Japan and
Germany - where extended stays often result in marriages to locals. In addition,
there are about a million non-citizen immigrants whose spouses are overseas and
must wait years for visas.

The military people and legal immigrants have the option of filing separate
returns, but in most cases that would cause their tax bill to increase more than
the amount of rebates. In addition, they would only qualify for a $600
single-taxpayer rebate rather than a $1,200 married-couple rebate. In any case,
the IRS says taxpayers can't amend their filing status after April 15.

HEART Act of 2008

The fix passed by the House on Tuesday is part of a broader bill, HR 6081 - the
Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax (HEART) Act of 2008 - providing
various forms of permanent tax relief for military families. It makes a
"critical change" to the current law by specifying that active military who file
a joint tax return would be eligible for the rebate check even if the spouse
does not have a Social Security number, House Ways and Means Chairman Charles
Rangel, D-N.Y., said in a statement.

"This bill is called the HEART Act, but I would prefer to call it the thank you
bill - thank you to the tens of thousands of American men and women who have
responded to America's call to fight this war and place themselves in harm's way
to serve this nation," Rangel said.

The bill also enhances the ability of active military to get tax benefits such
as the Earned Income Tax Credit, buy homes and make penalty-free withdrawals
from their pension plans, Rangel said.

An aide to the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Democratic Sen. Max
Baucus of Montana, said Tuesday that Baucus was pleased that the House had
passed the bill and that he is working with his colleagues to get the bill
passed quickly in the Senate as well.

William Luong, stationed at a U.S. naval base in Yokosuka, Japan, told the
Mercury News this month that many of his fellow seamen resented that they had
ended up in the same category as illegal immigrants.

"They understand the reason they're getting the shaft," said Luong, 21, who is
from the Los Angeles area. "But a lot are frustrated or angry about it."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 21, 2008 Wednesday

House OKs rebate fix for overseas troops

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News;
National; State; Local; Business

LENGTH: 864 words


The House of Representatives on Tuesday voted unanimously to give tax rebates to
tens of thousands of U.S. troops overseas who were denied the money in Congress'
bungled attempt to send a message about illegal immigration.

But the bill rushed through the House on a 403-0 vote does nothing to help
hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants in Silicon Valley and elsewhere who
also were denied rebate checks.

When Congress passed an economic-stimulus package in early February giving hefty
rebates to most taxpayers, it tried to ensure that illegal immigrants didn't get
any of the money. But in doing so lawmakers inadvertently penalized about a
million legal immigrants - and U.S. service members stationed overseas - simply
because their foreign spouses lack a Social Security number. Hundreds of
thousands of H-1B work visa holders are also not getting checks for the same
reason.

The scope of the problem was first detailed in a Mercury News article earlier
this month as the government began electronically depositing the rebates in bank
accounts.

"This is a good first step, but everyone in Congress knows this is not enough,"
said Paul Donnelly, a longtime pro-immigration advocate in Washington, D.C.
"There are thousands and thousands of law-abiding immigrants in the greater San
Jose area who are now being stiffed for 1,200 bucks. Congress needs to fix
this."

No SSN, no rebate

Parveen Kumar of Sunnyvale, an H-1B visa holder from India who works as an
engineer at Intelliswift Software in Fremont, agreed.

"I'm happy that the soldiers are getting the money, but this is not just a
matter of rebate checks. It's a matter of justice," he said. "Why should we be
treated like illegal immigrants?"

His wife is on a visa that doesn't allow her to work, so she's not eligible for
a Social Security card.

Congressional sources said Tuesday that a "fix" for legal immigrants has not
gone beyond the talking stage because the issue has been wrapped up in the
larger, oft-times poisonous debate over illegal immigration.

At the urging of anti-illegal-immigration groups such as the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, the Senate Finance Committee in early February
inserted language into the rebate bill aimed at illegal immigrants who don't
have Social Security numbers and instead routinely use "tax identification
numbers."

The Internal Revenue Service rules are strict. If a married couple files a joint
tax return and one spouse doesn't have a Social Security number, both spouses
are ineligible for a rebate, which can be as high as $1,200 for a couple. They
also lose an additional $300 rebate for each child.

"We feel like second-class taxpayers," said Vivek Jayanand, 31, an engineer at
Marvell Semiconductor in Santa Clara whose wife lives in India, awaiting a visa.

More than 288,000 troops are stationed overseas, according to the Pentagon - not
counting those in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many live in places - Korea, Japan and
Germany - where extended stays often result in marriages to locals. In addition,
there are about a million non-citizen immigrants whose spouses are overseas and
must wait years for visas.

The military people and legal immigrants have the option of filing separate
returns, but in most cases that would cause their tax bill to increase more than
the amount of rebates. In addition, they would only qualify for a $600
single-taxpayer rebate rather than a $1,200 married-couple rebate. In any case,
the IRS says taxpayers can't amend their filing status after April 15.

HEART Act of 2008

The fix passed by the House on Tuesday is part of a broader bill, HR 6081 - the
Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax (HEART) Act of 2008 - providing
various forms of permanent tax relief for military families. It makes a
"critical change" to the current law by specifying that active military members
who file a joint tax return would be eligible for the rebate check even if the
spouse does not have a Social Security number, House Ways and Means Chairman
Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., said in a statement.

"This bill is called the HEART Act, but I would prefer to call it the thank you
bill - thank you to the tens of thousands of American men and women who have
responded to America's call to fight this war and place themselves in harm's way
to serve this nation," Rangel said.

The bill also enhances the ability of active military members to get tax
benefits such as the Earned Income Tax Credit, buy homes and make penalty-free
withdrawals from their pension plans, Rangel said.

An aide to the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Democratic Sen. Max
Baucus of Montana, said Tuesday that Baucus was pleased that the House had
passed the bill and that he is working with his colleagues to get the bill
passed quickly in the Senate as well.

William Luong, stationed at a U.S. naval base in Yokosuka, Japan, told the
Mercury News this month that many of his fellow seamen resented that they had
ended up in the same category as illegal immigrants.

"They understand the reason they're getting the shaft," said Luong, 21, who is
from the Los Angeles area. "But a lot are frustrated or angry about it."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 26, 2008 Monday

Elderly, ill immigrants' aid at risk

BYLINE: By Karen de S&aacute; Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 695 words


Before her husband went to a communist re-education camp, Tien Vo tended her
rice paddies and fed her family farm-fresh livestock. When he was sent away in
the wake of the Vietnam War, she sold secondhand clothes in the marketplace of
her rural province.

But as refugees in San Jose, the couple - elderly and ailing - needed help to
survive. And after President Bill Clinton's 1996 welfare reform act excluded
non-citizen legal immigrants who were blind, aged or disabled from federal
disability payments, California legislators created a cash-assistance program
that back-filled the benefit hole for people like the Vos.

Ten years later, with an exploding state deficit and a Republican governor
determined not to raise taxes, that program is itself at risk. The Cash
Assistance Program for Immigrants, or CAPI, now serves 10,300 legal immigrants
too old and too sick to care for themselves, but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's
May budget revision proposes to eliminate it.

In Santa Clara County, there are currently 647 CAPI clients - a group that
includes people who fled political repression in their homelands and others who
worked and paid taxes here for years before becoming reliant upon government
aid.

"I am old and I cannot apply the skills I have from Vietnam to support myself,"
Vo, now 74, said through a translator. "And with my health not in the best shape
right now, without CAPI I don't know what I would do."

Schwarzenegger officials say the cut is necessary to address a $17 billion state
budget shortfall.

"We do not deny that these cuts are difficult," said Shirley Washington,
spokeswoman for the California Department of Social Services. "We are attempting
to continue the safety net of vital services while recognizing the need to
restore the state's fiscal balance."

Washington said other state and county safety net programs could support some
CAPI clients, albeit at lower levels.

The typical CAPI benefit is $860 a month. But county General Assistance
payments, which would be expected to absorb the CAPI clients if the program were
cut, pay an average of only $300 a month, and significantly less in many
counties.

That shortfall, combined with the fiscal stress counties are facing this budget
year, has many social service agencies concerned lives may be on the line. When
the 1996 federal welfare reform prompted warning letters to legal immigrants
that their disability payments could be cut, some distraught residents committed
suicide, according to news reports at the time.

Now, as word trickles out that CAPI may be cut, panic is again setting in.

Tatiana Troitchkja, a 74-year-old former university professor, and her husband,
a 79-year-old retired scientist who is chronically ill, live in San Jose on a
$1,725 CAPI grant. Rent alone consumes $850.

In 1999, the pair fled persecution in Moscow under conditions so painful that
Troitchkja could describe them in an interview only as "very, very, very hard
times." The United States granted them asylum, Troitchkja said, but post-Sept.
11 immigration backlogs "broke all our plans."

They did not receive green cards until 2005 and must wait until 2010 before they
can apply for citizenship to become eligible for federal disability payments
known as Supplemental Security Income.

If the CAPI program were cut, "I don't know how we could live," Troitchkja said.
"We cannot work. We have nothing without this program."

According to an informal survey of counties conducted last week by the
California Welfare Directors Association, the majority of CAPI recipients live
alone or with impoverished relatives.

"The notion that there are well-to-do family members that can pick up the slack
is not supported by the data," said Frank Mecca, executive director of the
welfare directors association.

Huong Lan-Dang, a supervising eligibility worker in Santa Clara County, said she
is explaining to worried clients that the program will not be cut unless the
state Legislature approves the governor's proposal. Hearings take place this
week in Sacramento.

"People are calling; they're concerned," Lan-Dang said. "And all I can do is try
to reassure them."

Contact Karen de Sá at kdesa@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5781.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 30, 2008 Monday

Besides better immigration laws, we need better parenting

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 592 words


SAN DIEGO - When you grab hold of the thorny topic of immigration, sometimes you
can't tell what part of the discussion will prick your finger.

I recently addressed the subject as part of a panel. Given the questions - one
person suggested opening the U.S.-Mexico border - I'd say the audience was
fairly liberal.

When I called for punishing employers, insisted that racism was part of the
debate and asserted that much of the ruckus was based on the fear of a changing
America, I didn't get much reaction. But then there was the comment that hit
close to home.

"You know," I said. "It's worth mentioning that not only do illegal immigrants
do jobs that Americans won't do, but many of the jobs they're doing were once
done by young people in their teens and 20s - your sons and daughters - who, as
a generation, have shown themselves to have a terrible work ethic."

My point was that besides better immigration laws and better enforcement, we
also need better parenting - the sort that produces young people who know how to
work and aren't afraid to break a sweat. Then, the employers I've heard from -
apple growers in Washington, restaurant owners in North Carolina, etc. - who
claim they can't find young Americans who want to work wouldn't feel as if they
had to hire illegal immigrants to pick up the slack.

Afterward, I was surrounded by a group of angry folks who said they were
offended. They insisted they had good kids - the kind who worked hard in school
and volunteered for worthwhile causes in the summer. But when I asked whether
their children had after-school or summer jobs, they changed the subject. Some
told me what they have told their kids - that their "jobs" are to study hard in
school and get good grades.

Fine. But young people also need to learn how to find a job, take orders, show
up on time and be a dependable employee. Those, too, are valuable skills. And if
many young people aren't learning them, we shouldn't be surprised that we've
arrived at a point where many jobs would go undone if not for illegal
immigrants.

What evidence did I have that young people had a weak work ethic? one man
demanded to know.

I responded that several books have been written about the so-called Millennial
Generation, born between 1982 and 2002. Most of the authors make the point that
this cohort is self-absorbed to the point of narcissism, consumed by fame and
fortune, plagued by a sense of entitlement, and averse to concepts such as
"paying your dues" or "working your way to the top." Many of these kids were
raised to believe that they were "special" and now they consume a steady diet of
"American Idol"-type reality shows where the right break, and the right amount
of talent, can make you rich and famous overnight.

When they do show up in the workplace, many young people are - according to
those who supervise them - notoriously tough to manage. They dress like slobs,
question authority, shrug off criticism and impatiently wonder why, if they
start in the mailroom on Monday, they're not on their way to being vice
president by Friday.

Besides, I said, the MySpace generation has such high self-esteem that many of
them would never debase themselves to take the hard and dirty jobs that go to
illegal immigrants.

The guy shrugged and walked away. He didn't want to be persuaded. He just wanted
to defend his kids. That's natural. In fact, it's commendable.

It's just not helpful. If we want to find a solution, we should accept our share
of responsibility for the problem.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 6, 2008 Sunday

McCain can end doubts on immigration stance

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: POLITICS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 717 words


Arizona senator now realizes he must propose different legislation to achieve
his immigration reform goals.

SAN DIEGO - Presidential candidates who seem to change positions as they change
audiences should avoid accusing others of flip-flopping. It makes them look
silly.

That's the lesson for John McCain, who has criticized Barack Obama for reversing
his views on campaign finance and easing off his keep-up-with-Hillary-Clinton
opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement. Obama also flip-flopped
on building hundreds of miles of fencing on the U.S.-Mexico border; the Illinois
Democrat voted for the fence before he was against it.

"This election is about trust and trusting people's word," McCain recently told
supporters in Louisville, Ky. "And unfortunately, apparently on several items,
Senator Obama's word cannot be trusted."

Obama may be the candidate of change, but he deserves to be hammered for
changing course on some issues. Yet McCain isn't one to talk. When it comes to
consistency, the Arizona senator has a soft spot of his own - immigration, once
a signature issue.

And during a recent speech, Obama went right for it.

"One place where Senator McCain used to offer change was on immigration," Obama
said last month at the annual conference of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials. "He was a champion of comprehensive reform, and
I admired him for it. But when he was running for his party's nomination, he
walked away from that commitment and he's said he wouldn't even support his own
legislation if it came up for a vote."

I'm glad to hear that Obama admired McCain for championing immigration reform,
since the presumptive Democratic nominee kept mum on the issue in the Senate and
for much of the 16-month primary battle with Clinton. Besides, for those of us
who support comprehensive immigration reform and worry that the debate has been
poisoned by racism, quick fixes and scapegoating, there are many reasons to
admire McCain.

Among them is the fact that McCain wasn't afraid to stand up to members of his
party, as when - during a debate - he dismissed Rep. Tom Tancredo's nativist
take on what it means to be an American as "beyond my realm of thinking."

Or when, according to former Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., McCain scolded GOP
colleagues for attempting to declare English the national language and warned
them that Hispanics would see it as a divisive and racist loyalty oath.

It's true that McCain said during a debate in January that he would not vote for
the bill that he twice introduced with Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass. But I
interpreted that to mean that Congress had made its views on the legislation
clear by killing it, and that McCain realized that he would have to propose
different legislation to achieve his reform goals.

After all, in recent weeks, McCain has broadcast his intention, if elected, to
press for comprehensive immigration reform. Still, he also tells Republican
groups that he "got the message" that we must secure the borders first before we
decide what to do with the 12 million illegal immigrants already here.

No wonder a lot of people think McCain is talking out of both sides of his mouth
on immigration. He isn't. Anyone who says that this is a departure from
McCain-Kennedy needs to go back and read that legislation as amended last year.

As the proponents of comprehensive reform said at the time - including some of
the same people now painting McCain as a flip-flopper - the bill had enforcement
"triggers" that had to be met before any legalization kicked in.

So Obama is wrong. This isn't a flip-flop. McCain is basically in the same place
he was a year ago. If you want to fault McCain, fault him for failing to
communicate that and making a mess of his own position. He should have one
speech on the subject, and he should deliver it to groups on both the right and
the left.

McCain can finally set the record straight July 14 when he addresses the annual
conference of the National Council of La Raza in San Diego. When he gets before
that audience, he needs to say - clearly and unequivocally - what he would do as
president to fix the immigration system, and in exactly what order.

Then John McCain won't have to worry about being misunderstood.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 7, 2008 Monday

A green card, and a wife overseas

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; State;
Local

LENGTH: 948 words


Life seems good for Silicon Valley engineers Aung Moe and Vivek Jayanand.
They're young, hip and already own luxury condos with big flat-screen TVs facing
black leather couches. They're on their way to becoming U.S. citizens within
several years.

But something vital is missing - their wives.

Moe and Jayanand are among a group of about a million legal, permanent U.S.
residents forced to live without their spouses - and in many cases their
children.

These green-card holders often wait five to seven years - in a purgatory of the
heart - for their immediate family members to come to the States. If they had
not made a commitment to this country by getting on the citizenship track, it
would be far easier for their families to join them. As it is, their wives are
not even allowed to visit.

"It's incredibly frustrating," said Jayanand, 31, a hardware engineer at Marvell
Semiconductor in Santa Clara. "As an immigration lawyer recently told me, 'U.S.
immigration law is not for those who are young and in love.' "

Under current law, the spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens don't have to
wait for green cards. But the nuclear-family members of non-citizen immigrants
are given lower priority.

The protracted separations that result from the law can be an enormous,
corrosive strain on otherwise healthy marriages, advocates for immigrants say.

"It's really cruel and immoral," said Randall Emery of American Families United,
a 2-year-old group fighting to make immigration law more friendly to nuclear
families. "People die waiting overseas for visas. Some divorce."

During last year's contentious debate about immigration reform, Sen. Hillary
Clinton, D-N.Y., introduced an amendment that would have given green-card
holders the same ability as citizens to bring their spouses and children to the
United States. But the amendment failed 44-53 after Republican senators argued
that the country couldn't suddenly absorb hundreds of thousands of spouses and
children.

For green-card holders like Moe and Jayanand, there are only two solutions to
their dilemma - both of them painful. They can win their citizenship and the
right to bring over their families, a process that usually takes at least five
years from the date they got their green cards. Or they can wait for visas for
their spouses, which can take even longer.

Moe and Jayanand say the policy is particularly aggravating because holders of
temporary visas are allowed to bring their spouses right away. They include
wives of H-1B work visa holders and those here on student visas.

"It's very strange," said Moe, 33, a processing engineer at Applied Materials in
Santa Clara. "I decided I wanted to become a U.S. citizen, and that's why I got
punished."

'She was the one'

Jayanand came to the United States from India in 1999 to study electrical
engineering at the University of Southern California. He was able to stay in
Silicon Valley and get a green card in 2004 because his skills were considered
valuable to the United States.

On a trip to India in July 2006, he was introduced to Neethu, a medical student.
"Once I met her, I knew she was the one," the Santa Clara resident said.

They married in February 2007, but the couple won't be able to live together
until 2010 - at the earliest. Jayanand needs to become a citizen and then wait
another year for his 25-year-old wife to get her green card.

2011 move-in goal

Moe, a San Jose resident, came in 1995 as a 20-year-old student from Burma, also
known as Myanmar. Because he was involved in protests against the repressive
regime, he was granted political asylum in 1998. He got his green card six years
later.

He met his wife, Mon Nweni, a chemical engineer in Singapore, during a December
2006 business trip. They were married in the island nation a year later.

As a resident of a developed country, the 30-year-old Mon Nweni could travel
freely to the United States. But once she married Moe, that was no longer the
case.

Now she must wait until her husband becomes a citizen next year - and then
another year for the United States to process her visa application. Moe figures
he won't live with his wife until 2011.

Jayanand and Moe - both relative newlyweds - are forced to live as single guys.

"All my friends are getting married, so they don't want to hang out with me
anymore," Moe said with a rueful laugh. He and Jayanand spend many lonely hours
watching sports and movies on their big screens - avoiding romantic comedies.

Both men try to talk to their spouses every night on the phone, and they also
use Skype, which allows them to see their wives.

But the time zones can be downright menacing.

"When she's home, I'm sleeping," Moe said. "When I wake up, she's sleeping."

No solution near

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, isn't hopeful Congress will resolve the situation
any time soon.

"Whenever there is a discussion of making the laws more rational, the
anti-immigration advocacy groups raise a hue and cry," said Lofgren, chairwoman
of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee.

But groups like the Federation for American Immigration Reform and Californians
for Population Stabilization say increasing the number of legal immigrants -
which already runs about a million a year - is not a good idea.

Rick Oltman of Californians for Population Stabilization said he is sympathetic
to the immigrants' plight, but added: "They understood the rules when they got
here."

But Emery, the immigrants' advocate, argues that families shouldn't be "held
hostage and used as pawns in the bigger game" of immigration reform.

"Even in the Mafia," Emery said, "they have rules against going after the women
and children."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at  kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vivek Jayanand, 31, taks with his wife, Neethu Jayanand, 25, living in
Kerala, India from his Santa Clara condo in Santa Clara, Thursday June 19, 2008.
The couple has been married since February of 2007 but Neethu cannot get a visa
to live in the US because Vivek has a green card. Vivek is working with American
Families United to get the immigration rules changed for others like him.(David
M. Barreda/Mercury News)
Vivek Jayanand, 31, holds a framed photograph of his wife, Neethu Jayandand, 25,
in his Santa Clara condo in Santa Clara, Thursday June 19, 2008. Neethu lives in
Kerala, India. The couple has been married since February of 2007 but Neethu
cannot get a visa to live in the US because Vivek has a green card. Vivek is
working with American Families United to get the immigration rules changed for
others like him.(David M. Barreda/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 387 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

Proposal targets unfit

immigration attorneys

The Bush administration has quietly proposed an overhaul of the discipline
process that aims to crack down on abusive and incompetent attorneys practicing
before the nation's immigration courts.

The proposed changes would set new minimum standards of conduct for the
attorneys and give greater power to judges to punish wrongdoers. The changes are
part of a broader overhaul of the immigration court system being sought by the
Justice Department that until now has focused principally on judges.

"Immigration judges should have the tools necessary to control their courtrooms
and protect the adjudicatory system from fraud and abuse," said the Executive
Office for Immigration Review, an arm of the Justice Department, which
circulated the rules for public comment late last month. "This proposed rule
seeks to preserve the fairness and integrity of immigration proceedings, and
increase the level of protection afforded to aliens in those proceedings."

Groups: Species rules

rewrite being rushed

The Bush administration is providing insufficient time for public comment as it
seeks to loosen rules protecting endangered species, representatives of more
than 100 conservation groups charged Friday.

The Interior Department set a 30-day public comment period last week on an
administration proposal that would allow federal agencies approving or funding
dams, highways and other projects to decide for themselves - without input from
government experts - whether endangered species are likely to be harmed.

That's half the time that was originally scheduled in a draft obtained by the
Associated Press.

A shorter time would give the administration a better chance of imposing the
rules before November's presidential election.

VIRGINIA

NASA destroys rocket

carrying satellites

NASA destroyed a pilotless experimental rocket carrying a pair of research
satellites Friday when it veered off course shortly after an early morning
liftoff.

There were no injuries or confirmed reports of property damage, according to
NASA, but the agency warned that debris from the explosion could be hazardous.
NASA believes most of the wreckage fell into the ocean off Virginia.

Officials said the rocket was made by Alliant Techsystems.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 16, 2008 Tuesday

30 Bay Area residents among 100 arrested in phony passport scam

BYLINE: By Mark Gomez and Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; News; National;
State; Local

LENGTH: 543 words


In the largest investigation of its kind, federal authorities Tuesday announced
the arrests of more than 100 people, including about 30 from the Bay Area, who
are suspected of fraudulently applying for and obtaining U.S. passports using
birth certificates of dead Americans.

Between July 2005 and August 2008, 112 individuals across the country were
charged with federal passport fraud and related offenses, according to the U.S.
State Department. The individuals charged include fugitives, military deserters,
delinquent taxpayers, parolees, convicted felons, habitual drunken drivers and
undocumented workers from more than 20 countries, all of whom wanted passports
to hide from law enforcement, according to authorities.

Dubbed "Operation Deathmatch," the investigation was a joint effort by the U.S.
Department of Diplomatic Security's San Francisco and Los Angeles field offices
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Sacramento field office.

Senior security service officials from both agencies, who did not want to reveal
their names, said investigators merged California's death record database, going
back to 1940, with passport requests. Though this type of investigation is
ongoing, the officials said, this operation was the largest and most successful
because computer technology is so much more advanced than it used to be.

The Deathmatch defendants include Chih-Fong Chen of Atherton, an undocumented
Chinese immigrant working in an immigration attorney's office. She stole the
birth certificate of a deceased woman, Lorena Lew, while she was working for the
Jocelyne J. K. Lew Immigration Law Firm, authorities say. Chen pleaded guilty to
a federal passport offense and was sentenced to probation in April 2007.

John White of Mountain View is an another example of someone rounded up for
stealing a dead person's identity. White also pleaded guilty to a federal
passport offense, and was sentenced to probation and community service last
year, for taking the name of the late Kenneth Voisinet, federal authorities say.
White had a prior drunken driving conviction and wanted to hide that from his
employers, which is why he stole Voisinet's clean history.

And while it's possible for terrorists to steal and use other people's
identities, senior diplomatic security officials with the U.S. State Department
said there were no defendants charged with terrorism as part of this
investigation.

Officials also said that there was no particular reason for announcing the
results of Deathmatch Tuesday, especially since the work is ongoing and began in
2005.

Most of the people charged were arrested or surrendered in federal courts,
according to the U.S. State Department. Some remain fugitives. Federal passport
offenses carry a penalty of up to 10 years in prison.

Law enforcement officials also seized three firearms, $650,000 in cash, a
Mercedes and more than 80 of the fraudulently obtained U.S. passports.


 Defendants in Operation Deathmatch - Get more BusinessDocuments - ssjm0917field
(Note: Posting the Field Poll to the Web is embargoeduntil 6 a.m. 09/17; verify
that 'extra' mapword is included)Document embed code:
 Sept. 17 Field Poll survey results - Get more BusinessDocuments

Contact Mark Gomez at mgomez@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5869.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 22, 2008 Wednesday

Palo Alto to ICE: Don't trample immigrants' rights

BYLINE: By Will Oremus Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; Peninsula; Special Reports; News;
Local

LENGTH: 261 words


Responding to reports of local immigration raids, Palo Alto has passed a
resolution asking federal agents to respect its residents' constitutional
rights.

The city Monday voted to ask its congressional representatives to oppose ''any
use of improper and unlawful law enforcement tactics by the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents in their zealous enforcement'' of immigration laws.
In particular, the resolution decries ICE agents' alleged practice of
identifying themselves as local police officers and searching people's homes and
arresting them without warrants.

The resolution stops short of openly challenging U.S. border policy, however. It
says the city supports the federal government's effort to secure the country's
borders ''from violent and illegal criminal aliens, gang members and
fugitives.''

The measure passed on a 6-2-1 vote, with Mayor Larry Klein and Councilman John
Barton opposing it and Councilman Pat Burt abstaining.

The Palo Alto Police Department already has a policy of not participating in ICE
sweeps, and its officers don't arrest people just for being in the country
illegally, agent Dan Ryan said. So far, the department is only aware of one
federal raid in the city, a 2007 incident in which an undocumented couple was
deported, uprooting four children who were all U.S. citizens.

Several local church leaders Monday cited that incident and others on the
Peninsula in urging the city to pass the resolution. They said ICE operations
have violated people's human rights and instilled in immigrants a misplaced fear
of local police.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 22, 2008 Wednesday

Palo Alto to ICE: Don't trample immigrants' rights

BYLINE: By Will Oremus Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 464 words


Responding to reports of local immigration raids, Palo Alto has passed a
resolution asking federal agents to respect its residents' constitutional
rights.

The city on Monday voted to ask its congressional representatives to oppose "any
use of improper and unlawful law enforcement tactics by the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents in their zealous enforcement" of immigration laws. In
particular, the resolution decries ICE agents' alleged practice of identifying
themselves as local police officers and searching people's homes and arresting
them without warrants.

The resolution stops short of openly challenging U.S. border policy, however. It
says the city supports the federal government's effort to secure the country's
borders "from violent and illegal criminal aliens, gang members and fugitives."

The measure passed on a 6-2-1 vote, with Mayor Larry Klein and Council Member
John Barton opposing it and Council Member Pat Burt abstaining.

The Palo Alto Police Department already has a policy of not participating in ICE
sweeps, and its officers don't arrest people just for being in the country
illegally, Agent Dan Ryan said. So far, the department is only aware of one
federal raid in the city, a 2007 incident in which an undocumented couple was
deported, uprooting four children who were all U.S. citizens.

Several local church leaders on Monday cited that incident and others on the
Peninsula in urging the city to pass the resolution. They said ICE operations
have violated people's human rights and instilled in immigrants a misplaced fear
of local police.

Klein said he opposed the motion because he believes the city shouldn't take
stands on non-local issues. Beyond that, he said the resolution appeared
"meaningless" as written.

"As I read it, all it was doing was telling ICE to follow the Constitution and
the laws of the country," Klein said   something they're already required to do.

Council Member Peter Drekmeier disagreed, saying, "We've seen under the Bush
administration that they pick and choose the laws they want to follow.
Essentially what we're doing is sending a message to our elected representatives
in Congress that this is an issue they need to look into and take action on."

Neil Babra, an immigration attorney with Community Legal Services in East Palo
Alto, applauded the council's stand. He said even illegal immigrants have
constitutional rights to privacy and due process, but those are often trampled
by ICE agents who rely on "fear and coercion" rather than warrants to apprehend
suspects.

By taking a position, Babra said, Palo Alto is demonstrating "that the larger
community is noticing and sees it as a problem of general human rights, and not
just a problem for undocumented people."

E-mail Will Oremus at woremus@dailynewsgroup.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 2, 2008 Friday

Marchers for immigrant rights revive spirit of May Day

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 756 words


On the first day of May, immigrant workers, many with children in tow, marched
from East San Jose to City Hall accompanied by a boisterous range of supporters
from students to retirees.

Though the turnout of 1,500 to 2,000 marchers was far lower than the massive
crowd of two years ago, their fledgling immigrant-rights movement seems to be
taking hold and more - they just may bring May Day back from oblivion.

"Actually, the original May Day was organized by immigrants back in the 1800s,"
said Jim Kelly, who teaches labor studies at San Jose City College. "The fact
that they're reclaiming it and bringing it to the forefront is a positive
thing."

Marches around the country - Miami, Washington, D.C., Houston, Tucson,
Milwaukee, Salem, Ore. - also drew sharply smaller turnouts than in previous
years. The largest was in Chicago where 15,000 marchers took to the streets. Two
years ago there were 400,000 in the Midwest city.

In San Jose, Jose Sandoval, one of the key organizers of the local march,
explained that while May Day may be unfamiliar to most Americans, it is not to
Latino immigrants. May 1 is Mexico's official Labor Day.

"Throughout Latin America," Sandoval said, "it's known as International Workers
Day. It's only natural for us to march for immigrants' rights on this day."

Brenda and Ramon Zarate, a young couple originally from Tijuana, agreed.

"We came here to support a new immigration policy, one that offers some
legalization," said Brenda Zarate. "But yes, we know all about May First, and
it's probably a good thing to bring it back."

Two years ago to the day, the route on which the couple walked teemed with
125,000 passionate marchers. Thursday's San Jose turnout was similar to much
smaller Bay Area marches in Oakland and San Francisco.

Organizers and observers noted that the urgency in 2006 to oppose a restrictive
immigration bill in the House of Representatives brought out huge crowds that
declined in the years after the bill was defeated. They also cited increased
fear of deportation, the absence of centralized organizing and the muted
microphones of popular Spanish-language radio hosts who, two years ago, urged
everyone within earshot to join the demonstrations.

As in years past, Thursday's marchers called for tolerance of legal and
undocumented immigrants, the end to workplace raids and deportations, and a
major immigration overhaul that would include some sort of legalization.

Salvador Bustamante, a labor leader and one of the 2006 organizers, says the
selection of May Day two years ago was a coincidence, not an intentional
decision to resurrect the old labor holiday.

"Congress was getting ready to act," Bustamante said. "There was a lot of fear
in the community at the time. That was just the day that was close by, and we
thought we could make something big happen."

Coincidence or not, being adapted to modern times is a familiar story for the
First of May.

American baby boomers, as children, danced around the Maypole on May 1; pagan
cultures in Europe had a similar holiday to usher in summer. Older Americans
remember the parades of the 1930s and '40s commemorating the often violent
struggles for the eight-hour day and other labor gains during the late 19th
century.

But May Day as a seasonal and labor holiday effectively ended during the height
of the Cold War in 1958, when Congress declared May 1 "Loyalty Day." But even as
the Maypoles fell limp on school playgrounds, Loyalty Day never took hold
outside of a few towns. Meanwhile, Big Labor migrated to Labor Day in September.

"They branded May Day as communist," said Fred Hirsch, a retired plumber and
board member of Plumbers and Fitters Local 393. He was among the few traditional
union members who marched Thursday. "What's happening is that the immigrant
workers are bringing back its focus."

Whether traditional unions re-embrace May Day is an open question.

Neil Struthers, head of the Santa Clara and San Benito Building and Construction
Trades Council, said his union's leadership generally supports and recruits
immigrant workers, but the rank and file remain mostly standoffish or even
resentful of the newcomers. He said those attitudes could easily change.

"The demographics of American labor more and more is Hispanic," he said. "Just
because of that the rank and file is becoming more Latino."

Thursday's march ended with a rally at City Hall, with San Jose police reporting
no trouble, and organizers and marchers promising to return next May Day.

Contact Joe Rodriguez at jrodriguez@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thousands of marchers walk down Alum Rock Avenue on May Day in San
Jose, May 1, 2008. The marchers chanted slogans in support of workers and
immigrant rights.(David M. Barreda/Mercury News)
march on May Day in San Jose, May 1, 2008. The marchers chanted slogans in
support of workers and immigrant rights.(David M. Barreda/Mercury News)
(l-r foreground) Noemi Salas, of San Jose, Ashley Cortz, 4, and Ivan Cortez, 9,
walk with hundreds of marchers down King Street on May Day in San Jose, May 1,
2008. The marchers chanted slogans in support of workers and immigrant rights.
The crowd grew in numbers the closer it got to its destination near City
Hall.(David M. Barreda/Mercury News)
Hundreds of marchers walk down King Street on May Day in San Jose, May 1, 2008.
The marchers chanted slogans in support of workers and immigrant rights. The
crowd grew in numbers the closer it got to its destination near City Hall.(David
M. Barreda/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday

Census figures show 70 percent of California's Mexican population are U.S.
citizens

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olveraand Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1338 words


For the first time in the most current wave of immigration, U.S. Census figures
show that 70 percent of California's Mexican population are U.S. citizens,
blunting widespread belief the state is overrun by illegal immigrants.

The findings are part of new data that casts a spotlight on a steady demographic
transition between 2000 and 2006, with the state leading the nation in the
number of Mexican immigrants gaining citizenship.

California's Mexican population, boosted by a boom in births, is moving steadily
into citizenship, with Mexican-Americans comprising about 7.6 million of the
state's 36 million residents in 2006.

"California has reached a steady state with regard to immigration," said Dowell
Myers, a demographer at the University of Southern California. "The number of
new foreign-born arrivals is being offset by the number of babies who are being
born here and the number of parents who are naturalizing."

The U.S. Office of Immigration Statistics estimates about 11.6 million illegal
immigrants in the country as of January 2006, with about 6.6 million of that
total being from Mexico. The Census Bureau says there are 11.5 million Mexican
immigrants in the United States.

The 2006 Census data, released several weeks ago, is based on a statistical
sample and therefore contains some statistical error.

The Census estimates, however, align closely with U.S. Department of Homeland
Security naturalization records and with state public health records on births
to Latino mothers.

California does not break down birth records by Latino subgroups, but Mexicans
are by far the largest group in the state, according to Census data.

The figures show Mexican-American citizenship in the state increased by 3
percentage points from 67 percent in 2000 to 70 percent at the end of 2006.

They also show that roughly half of the 460,766 Mexican immigrants who became
naturalized citizens nationwide between 2000 and 2006 were in California.

Births to people of Mexican ancestry is the biggest factor driving the
citizenship spurt, with state public health records and Census data showing
there have been about 1.5 million children born to parents of Mexican ancestry
since 2000, but it's unknown how many of those are children of illegal
immigrants.

In Santa Clara County, the increase in citizens of Mexican ancestry due to birth
and naturalization exceeds the growth in non-citizen immigrants by a 3-1 margin
this decade, Census data shows.

Juan Loerca is a prime example. He came to Santa Clara County three years ago
from the Mexican province of Sinaloa. He was married at the time, but he and his
young bride didn't have any children.

Just five months ago, he and his wife, Lucilla, had their first son in this
country.

"He's American," the 28-year-old said, smiling as he called his son's birth in
the country his first "gift" to him.

Loerca and his wife, who would someday like to become naturalized citizens,
could be forced to leave through deportation if their illegal status draws
government attention.

But he noted that his son would still be able to come back to this country one
day because he's a citizen.

"I want to have kids here, to give them opportunity," he said. "To be a citizen
is to have opportunity."

He and his wife would like to have three more children, and he's hoping to have
them within the next few years.

Al Camarillo, a Stanford University historian who studies Chicano history and
the scattering of Mexican immigrants across the country, said the decision to
have children in the U.S. is a way for illegal immigrants to begin the process
of assimilation.

"They realize that we're not going back, that we've been here for a long time,
our children are growing up here and we're going to stay here - those kinds of
calculations have gone on in the minds of Mexican-Americans for generations. At
some point they make a decision, sometimes unconsciously, 'We're here, this is
where our children are going to be raised and this is where we're going to
remain.' "

On the other hand, many see the large number of births to illegal immigrants as
a serious concern. Based on birth rates for the overall foreign-born population,
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that supports curbs on
immigration, says there are between 287,000 and 363,000 births to illegal
immigrants in the U.S. each year.

Those children, FAIR says, have a significant impact on hospitals, schools and
other institutions, and constitute a major, but unknown, cost to taxpayers.

"It's as though we make our immigration policy in a vacuum," said Ira Mehlman, a
spokesman for FAIR. Those births have "ramifications for schools, for health
care institutions and all sorts of things, and those things need to be
considered in terms of formulating immigration policies."

Partly because Mexican-American citizenship is on the rise, California's share
of the U.S. total of all Mexican immigrants is dropping, declining from 42
percent of the nation's total in 2000 to 36 percent in 2006, an analysis of
Census data by the Mercury News shows.

Even in Los Angeles County, long a haven for illegal Mexican immigrants, new
Census data shows that the growth in the population has stopped dead this
decade, as the legal and illegal immigrant stream has transferred to other parts
of the U.S.

The picture is very different in other areas of the country, with several
pockets beginning to feel the ripple effects of illegal Mexican immigration and
fueling division over immigration reform.

In North Carolina, the state with the biggest percentage of Latino growth during
the 1990s, just 41 percent of Mexicans are U.S. citizens, and there has been no
increase since 2000 in the number of Mexican-Americans who have become citizens
through naturalization.

While Mehlman, of FAIR, agrees California may represent the future of
immigration for the rest of the country, he predicts that future is not
necessarily an attractive one.

Los Angeles is a particularly divided place, he said, between troubled public
schools and affluent private ones, between affluent whites and the Latino
workers who cross town each day to tend their gardens and clean their homes.

"The state generally is becoming a two-class society . . . The outlook in
California, I don't see it as being all that rosy," Mehlman said. "What we've
been saying all along is that unless you control this influx, what happens is
wages get driven down. In this case (Mexican immigrants) are going to other
places, but it is not a good thing to drive down the wages in any market."

The transition of California's Mexican population toward citizenship is not
uniform across the state. Fast growing inland areas, such as Riverside County in
Southern California and Contra Costa County in the Bay Area, are gaining
immigrants more quickly than they are gaining Mexican-American citizens, a
reverse of the situation in Santa Clara, Los Angeles and San Diego counties.

Camarillo, the Stanford professor, said the tenor of the nation's immigration
debate is pushing many Mexican immigrants to become citizens.

"They see the handwriting on the wall - things are getting more difficult for
immigrants," he said.

Roselia Aguilar, a 29-year-old native of Mexico who has lived in San Jose for a
dozen years, had a pragmatic reason for becoming a U.S. citizen recently - she
was worried about changing immigration laws.

But as she stood amid 450 people from 57 nations, raised her right hand and
solemnly took an oath to "entirely renounce" her fidelity to any other country,
"to bear true faith and allegiance" to the Constitution, and to bear arms for
the United States if necessary, she felt moved by the feeling of belonging to
her new country.

"I think it's one of the most important things that ever happened to me," she
said moments after a recent naturalization ceremony in Campbell. "It's just
different. I feel something nice inside me. I feel like that I was born again."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704 and Mike
Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jouentino Ruiz, originally from Mexico, now living in San Jose,
receives his naturalization certificate at a USCIS (United States Citizenship
and Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in
Campbell, Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census numbers show that 70
percent of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either native born or
naturalized. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
Chiahong Lin, far left, originally from Taiwan, and Francisco Luquin, originally
from Mexico, center, at a USCIS (United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services) citizenship ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on
Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census numbers show that 70 percent of
California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either native born or naturalized.
(Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
Francisco Luquin, originally from Mexico, raises his right hand during the USCIS
(United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the
Heritage Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census
numbers show that 70 percent of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either
native born or naturalized. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
Jouentino Ruiz, originally from Mexico, now living in San Jose, at a USCIS
(United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the
Heritage Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census
numbers show that 70 percent of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either
native born or naturalized. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
A volunteer helps direct people at a USCIS (United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell,
Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census numbers show that 70 percent
of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either native born or naturalized.
(Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
Francisco Luquin, originally from Mexico, center, with a man from Taiwan, left,
and a man from Vietnam, right, at a USCIS (United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell,
Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census numbers show that 70 percent
of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either native born or naturalized.
(Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
Chiahong Lin, originally from Taiwan, holds paperwork during a USCIS (United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the
Heritage Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census
numbers show that 70 percent of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either
native born or naturalized. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
A couple has their photograph taken after a USCIS (United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell,
Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census numbers show that 70 percent
of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either native born or naturalized.
(Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
A USCIS (United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) citizenship
ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on Wednesday, October 24,
2007. New census numbers show that 70 percent of California's Mexicans are U.S.
citizens, either native born or naturalized. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)
Francisco Luquin, originally from Mexico, raises his right hand with a man from
Taiwan, left, and a man from Vietnam, right, during the USCIS (United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services) citizenship ceremony at the Heritage
Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. New census numbers
show that 70 percent of California's Mexicans are U.S. citizens, either native
born or naturalized. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday

Even in disaster, due process important

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 753 words


SAN DIEGO - Whenever I write about immigration issues, restrictionists and
racists accuse me of being too soft on Hispanics. And, of course, others accuse
me of being too hard on Hispanics.

I hear this from open-border types on the left - especially other
Mexican-Americans - when I get on my soapbox and insist that Hispanic
immigrants, legal or illegal, who are demanding their rights have to also start
accepting their responsibilities. Or when I preach that immigrants should learn
English, obey the law, become U.S. citizens, obtain an education and contribute
to society. Or when I denounce reckless, immoral or otherwise unacceptable
behavior that turns public sentiment against immigrants in general.

That's what inspired one reader on the Latino left to recently label me a "Tio
Tomas" (a Hispanic Uncle Tom). And what did I do to get this lefty so riled up?
I affixed the label of "scoundrels" to anyone who would steal food, water,
diapers and other items from a relief center during a natural disaster.

What kind of person would do such a thing? I suppose a desperate one. But that's
no excuse. Anyone who steals from people in need deserves harsh punishment.

Which brings us to what allegedly occurred at Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego,
which acted as a temporary shelter during the recent Southern California
wildfires. In what appear to be separate incidents, a handful of illegal
immigrants suspected of stealing relief supplies were taken into custody by
Border Patrol agents and deported to Mexico.

Keep in mind that the Border Patrol agents were at the stadium only to assist
San Diego police officers in maintaining order. They were not there to enforce
immigration law. And from what I know of the Border Patrol, the last thing that
any of these agents wanted to do was to arrest illegal immigrants at a relief
shelter.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement insists that there were no immigration
sweeps at Qualcomm. That's fine, but the agency is parsing its words. Sweeps
aren't the issue. Notice that ICE didn't say that no immigration-related arrests
took place at the stadium.

This is what really matters in this story: The suspects were handed over on the
spot to Border Patrol agents by San Diego police officers. That appears to be a
breach of protocol. The way it usually works is that a police officer might
arrest an illegal immigrant for some other infraction that goes beyond the civil
violation of coming into the country illegally - in this case, the alleged theft
- process him at the police station, then place a "hold" on the suspect until
the Border Patrol picks him up.

At Qualcomm, it appears that police officers short-circuited the process. It was
a rookie mistake, the type that saves paperwork but also brings on controversy
and invites lawsuits. This sort of thing demolishes the trust between immigrants
and the police, who generally steer clear of enforcing immigration law because
they would rather have immigrants cooperate with them when other crimes are
committed.

Here's what we know from what's been reported by local media: In one case, three
Hispanic immigrant families who had been evacuated from their homes had in their
possession diapers, water and other supplies, all of which were provided by
relief workers to evacuees. They claimed they were given the provisions. But a
bystander accused them of stealing and told the police. When some of the
immigrants were unable to provide proper identification that would prove they
were in the country legally, the officers turned the families over to the Border
Patrol.

That's just one case. When I used the word "scoundrels," I was referring to
another instance that has been reported where it does appear that some theft was
going on. In that case, there were no families - just a couple of men loading
supplies into a truck. They too were arrested and deported.

The case of the families is much more complicated. That's why procedures and
protocols exist. When they're broken, harm can be done. Just imagine what
happens the next time there is a crisis of the magnitude of the San Diego fires,
and illegal immigrants are so afraid that they avoid seeking shelter.

If it turns out that some of the initial reports are true and the families were
stealing supplies, we shouldn't apologize for condemning it. But, if the reports
were false and this is all one big and unfortunate misunderstanding, apologies
are in order - starting with the San Diego Police Department.RUBEN NAVARRETTE is
a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 5, 2007 Monday

Immigrants' language skills crucial in era of global economy

BYLINE: By Rep. Mike Honda

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 825 words


As a teen, I once told my mother to speak only English to me.

On the surface, things Japanese just were not "cool" enough for this California
high school kid. Even more haunting was the stigma of World War II and the
struggles my family suffered through during those years in an internment camp on
account of our ancestry.

Years later, as a Peace Corps volunteer, I realized what I lost by shunning my
Japanese. Learning Spanish in El Salvador opened my mind to a new world view. I
also realized that in losing Japanese, I lost a window to a culture that has
made a major impact on the world.

That is why I find the fear of multilingualism irrational. Some view it as
though it were a disease infecting our country instead of a cure; in fact, many
folks pay thousands of dollars to acquire a second language. Many foreign policy
blunders the United States has committed in the past, and the not-so-recent
past, could have been avoided had we not looked at the world through a
mono-cultural lens. Rather than English dying, the real tragedy facing our
country is the children of immigrants who lose their ancestral language. I
believe that immigrants should learn English when they come to the United States
- but not lose the language skills they bring with them.

That is why I always support legislation that nurtures multilingualism.
Multilingualism not only culturally enriches our country, but it makes long-term
strategic sense if we want to remain the leader of the free world in a global
era.

I recently introduced the "One America, Many Voices" Act (H.R. 3727) that would
give commensurate pay to federal employees whose official job descriptions
require another language. Currently, most government agencies don't compensate
for these required bilingual skills. The private sector rewards foreign-language
skills because they contribute to their bottom line. Why should hardworking,
skilled public servants deserve any less?

I am also concerned that many federal agencies are still not complying with a
7-year-old executive order, which directs federal agencies to provide proper
access to speakers of other languages. For example, during Hurricane Katrina's
aftermath, agencies such as FEMA did not provide vital information in languages
immigrant communities could understand, resulting in unnecessary harm and
suffering. I am urging that there be a General Accountability Office study to
understand why agencies are not following this executive order and to better
understand the consequences of failing to do so.

We've all heard the sentiment, "Let them learn English if they want anything
from us." I believe effective integration is a two-way street. The faster we
embrace new communities, the faster they become Americans. The more they are
alienated, the longer it takes. Most immigrant communities in this country were
not proficient in English when they landed. It took the Germans, the Italians,
the Dutch and others more than a generation to absorb the language as a
community. Italian and Yiddish were widely spoken in New York until the 1960s;
some towns in New Jersey still kept official minutes in German into the 20th
century. There was a reason - people can't become a part of the system if they
do not understand it.

Yes, every immigrant needs to learn English, but they should not shed their
language in the process. Contrary to what anti-immigrants argue, I know
Vietnamese, Filipino, Indian, Latino and Chinese children in my district who
have actually lost their family's native tongue. When they grow up, they would
be better equipped to carry out business relationships south of the border or in
the Pacific Rim, had they kept their native languages. This would be even more
important if they went on to help shape global U.S. policy.

In addition to the economic and strategic advantages we'll gain as a
multilingual country, research shows that fluent speakers of more than one
language have higher cognitive skills than monolingual students. A 2006 study in
the San Diego Unified School District found that fluent bilingual students have
a higher grade-point average than English monolingual students.

So why shun multilingualism? Harvard Professor Samuel Huntington's followers
would argue that it dilutes American culture. Tell that to the great American
composer Aaron Copland. What about "klutz" and "spiel" from Yiddish, or "bunny"
and "slogan" from Scottish-Gaelic? And who has not said "honcho" from Japanese,
or "kowtow" from Chinese? America is a glorious mix of cultures, so how can
cultures that have been part of ours for so long dilute us?

For a country that took world leadership upon its shoulders, it is vital to have
a population that can understand the world. Understanding starts with language.
Let's not regret losing this asset when it is too late.

REP. MIKE HONDA represents California's 15th Congressional District, which
includes parts of Santa Clara County. He wrote this article for the Mercury
News.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 5, 2007 Monday

The immigration debate: 70 percent of Mexicans in California are U.S. citizens

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olveraand Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 1334 words


For the first time in the most current wave of immigration, U.S. Census Bureau
figures show that 70 percent of California's Mexican population are U.S.
citizens, blunting widespread belief the state is overrun by illegal immigrants.

The findings are part of new data that casts a spotlight on a steady demographic
transition between 2000 and 2006, with the state leading the nation in the
number of Mexican immigrants gaining citizenship.

California's Mexican population, boosted by a boom in births, is moving steadily
into citizenship, with Mexican-Americans comprising about 7.6 million of the
state's 36 million residents in 2006.

"California has reached a steady state with regard to immigration," said Dowell
Myers, a demographer at the University of Southern California. "The number of
new foreign-born arrivals is being offset by the number of babies who are being
born here and the number of parents who are naturalizing."

Nationally, the U.S. Office of Immigration Statistics estimates about 11.6
million illegal immigrants in the country as of January 2006, with about 6.6
million of that total being from Mexico. The Census Bureau says there are 11.5
million Mexican immigrants in the United States.

The 2006 census data, released several weeks ago, is based on a statistical
sample and therefore contains some statistical error.

The census estimates, however, align closely with U.S. Department of Homeland
Security naturalization records and with state public health records on births
to Latino mothers.

California does not break down birth records by Latino subgroups, but Mexicans
are by far the largest group in the state according to census data.

The figures show Mexican-American citizenship in California increased by 3
percentage points from 67 percent in 2000 to 70 percent at the end of 2006.

They also show that roughly half of the 460,766 Mexican immigrants who became
naturalized citizens nationwide between 2000 and 2006 were in California.

Births to people of Mexican ancestry are the biggest factor driving the
citizenship spurt, with state public health records and census data showing
there have been about 1.5 million children born to parents of Mexican ancestry
since 2000, but it's unknown how many of those are children of illegal
immigrants.

In Santa Clara County, the increase in citizens of Mexican ancestry due to birth
and naturalization exceeds the growth in non-citizen immigrants by a 3-1 ratio
this decade, census data shows.

Juan Loerca is a prime example. He came to Santa Clara County three years ago
from the Mexican province of Sinaloa. He was married at the time, but he and his
young bride didn't have any children.

Just five months ago, he and his wife, Lucilla, had their first son in this
country.

"He's American," the 28-year-old said, smiling as he called his son's birth in
the country his first "gift" to him.

Loerca and his wife, who would someday like to become naturalized citizens,
could be forced to leave through deportation if their illegal status draws
government attention.

But he noted that his son would still be able to come back to this country one
day because he's a citizen.

"I want to have kids here, to give them opportunity," he said. "To be a citizen
is to have opportunity."

He and his wife would like to have three more children, and he's hoping to have
them within the next few years.

Al Camarillo, a Stanford University historian who studies Chicano history and
the scattering of Mexican immigrants across the country, said the decision to
have children in the U.S. is a way for illegal immigrants to begin the process
of assimilation.

"They realize that we're not going back, that we've been here for a long time,
our children are growing up here and we're going to stay here - those kinds of
calculations have gone on in the minds of Mexican-Americans for generations. At
some point they make a decision, sometimes unconsciously, 'We're here, this is
where our children are going to be raised and this is where we're going to
remain.' "

On the other hand, many see the large number of births to illegal immigrants as
a serious concern. Based on birth rates for the overall foreign-born population,
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that supports curbs on
immigration, says there are between 287,000 and 363,000 births to illegal
immigrants in the U.S. each year.

Those children, FAIR says, have a significant impact on hospitals, schools and
other institutions, and constitute a major, but unknown, cost to taxpayers.

"It's as though we make our immigration policy in a vacuum," said Ira Mehlman, a
spokesman for FAIR. Those births have "ramifications for schools, for health
care institutions and all sorts of things, and those things need to be
considered in terms of formulating immigration policies."

Even in Los Angeles County, long a haven for illegal Mexican immigrants, new
census data shows that the growth in that population has stopped dead this
decade, as the legal and illegal immigrant stream has transferred to other parts
of the U.S. California's share of the U.S. total of all Mexican immigrants is
dropping, declining from 42 percent of the nation's total in 2000 to 36 percent
in 2006, an analysis of census data by the Mercury News shows.

The picture is very different in other areas of the country, with several
pockets beginning to feel the ripple effects of illegal Mexican immigration and
fueling division over immigration reform.

In North Carolina, the state with the biggest percentage of Latino growth during
the 1990s, just 41 percent of Mexicans are U.S. citizens, and there has been no
increase since 2000 in the total number of Mexican-Americans who have become
citizens through naturalization there.

While Mehlman, of FAIR, agrees California may represent the future of
immigration for the rest of the country, he predicts that future is not
necessarily an attractive one.

Los Angeles is a particularly divided place, he said, between troubled public
schools and affluent private ones, between affluent whites and the Latino
workers who cross town each day to tend their gardens and clean their homes.

"The state generally is becoming a two-class society . . . The outlook in
California, I don't see it as being all that rosy," Mehlman said. "What we've
been saying all along is that unless you control this influx, what happens is
wages get driven down. In this case (Mexican immigrants) are going to other
places, but it is not a good thing to drive down the wages in any market."

The transition of California's Mexican population toward citizenship is not
uniform across the state. Fast growing inland areas, such as Riverside County in
Southern California and Contra Costa County in the Bay Area, are gaining
immigrants more quickly than they are gaining Mexican-American citizens, a
reverse of the situation in Santa Clara, Los Angeles and San Diego counties.

Camarillo, the Stanford professor, said the tenor of the nation's immigration
debate is pushing many Mexican immigrants to become citizens.

"They see the handwriting on the wall - things are getting more difficult for
immigrants," he said.

Roselia Aguilar, a 29-year-old native of Mexico who has lived in San Jose for a
dozen years, had a pragmatic reason for becoming a U.S. citizen recently - she
was worried about changing immigration laws.

But as she stood amid 450 people from 57 nations, raised her right hand and
solemnly took an oath to "entirely renounce" her fidelity to any other country,
"to bear true faith and allegiance" to the Constitution, and to bear arms for
the United States if necessary, she felt moved by the feeling of belonging to
her new country.

"I think it's one of the most important things that ever happened to me," she
said moments after a recent naturalization ceremony in Campbell. "It's just
different. I feel something nice inside me. I feel like that I was born again."

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704 and Mike
Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Francisco Luquin, originally from Mexico, raises his right hand during
the USCIS (United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) citizenship
ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on Wednesday, October 24,
2007. New census numbers show that 70 percent of California's Mexicans are U.S.
citizens, either native born or naturalized. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday

Pressure on immigrants could erupt in anger

BYLINE: By Andres Oppenheimer

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 797 words


The rapid escalation of U.S. anti-immigration hysteria - fueled by
ratings-hungry cable-television hotheads and leading Republican presidential
hopefuls - is a dangerous trend: It may lead to a Latino intifada with the
potential to rock this nation in the not-so-distant future.

Remember the Palestinian intifada of the early 1990s, when thousands of
frustrated young Palestinians took to the streets and threw stones at Israeli
troops? Remember the French intifada of the summer of 2005, in which
disenfranchised Muslim youths burned cars and stores in the suburbs of Paris?

If we are not careful, we may see something similar coming from the estimated 13
million undocumented immigrants in the United States, most of them Latino, who
are increasingly vilified in the media, forced further into the underground by
spineless politicians and not given any chance to legalize their status by a
pusillanimous U.S. Congress.

We are creating an underclass of people who won't leave this country and,
realistically, can't be deported. They and their children are living with no
prospect of earning a legal status, no matter how hard they work for it. Many of
them will become increasingly frustrated, angry, and some of them eventually may
turn violent.

I was thinking about all of this when I read about last week's U.S. Senate
refusal to pass the DREAM Act, a bill that would offer a path to legalization to
children of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States at a
very young age, and who get a college degree or serve in the military.

The bill would have regularized the status of youths like Juan and Alex Gomez,
the two Colombian-born Miami brothers who were brought by their parents to this
country as toddlers, graduated near the top of their high school classes, and
now face deportation to a country they don't even remember.

There are an estimated 1.8 million children in the United States who are growing
up like other American kids, often speak no language other than English, but
don't have legal documents, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. They are
denied in-state college tuition fees or scholarships that are available to legal
U.S. residents, and are eventually thrown into a labor market where they are
barred from being employed.

Further, the Bush administration-backed escalation of raids against undocumented
workers in factories, the increase of city ordinances prohibiting people from
leasing apartments to undocumented immigrants, and the overt xenophobia spilling
daily from Latino-phobic radio and cable-television shows will leave their mark
on these and other children in immigrant communities.

A study released last week by the Urban Institute and the National Council of La
Raza says there are about five million U.S. children with at least one
undocumented parent.

"The recent intensification of immigration enforcement activities by the federal
government has increasingly put these children at risk of family separation,
economic hardship, and psychological trauma," the report says.

The study looked at the impact of recent U.S. immigration raids in Colorado,
Nebraska and Massachusetts, where about 900 undocumented workers were arrested
at their work sites, and their children - most often infants - were suddenly
deprived of their fathers or mothers.

"The combination of fear, isolation, and economic hardship induced mental health
problems such as depression, separation anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress
disorder and suicide thoughts," it said.

My opinion: We have to stop this xenophobic hysteria. And please, dear
anti-immigration readers, don't tell me I'm being dishonest for failing to point
out that you are not against legal immigration, but only against "illegals."

You are making a deceptive argument. Leaving aside the fact that nearly half of
the undocumented immigrants came to this country legally, and overstayed their
visas, their non-compliance with immigration rules should not stigmatize them
with the label of "illegals."

You may have violated a rule, but that should not make you an "illegal" person.
You may have gotten a ticket for speeding, but that doesn't make you an
"illegal" human being, even if the potential harm of your reckless driving is
much greater than anything done by most of the hard-working undocumented
immigrants in this country.

Carrying out enforcement-only policies, labeling undocumented workers as
"illegals" and depriving them of hope for upward mobility - rather than working
toward greater economic cooperation with Latin America to reduce migration
pressures - is not only wrong, but dangerous. The millions of undocumented among
us will not leave. They will only get angrier.

ANDRES OPPENHEIMER ( aoppenheimer@miamiherald.com ) is a Latin America
correspondent for the Miami Herald.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday

Immigration story left me hanging

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: OPINION; Letters

LENGTH: 896 words


Immigration story

left me hanging

The Mercury News article (Page 1A, Nov. 5) on Mexican-Americans in California
has left behind a horrible implication. It says that 70 percent of Mexicans in
California are citizens, but it never tells us the composition of the other 30
percent. It implies or at least we are left to infer that the other 30 percent
are here illegally. The article never clarifies that if a Mexican is not a
citizen he may otherwise be here as a legal immigrant with a green card or a
valid visa. This article could have actually been useful to cool the recent
firestorms started by bigoted xenophobes who wish us to think that all Mexicans
are in America illegally consuming services and prison space without paying
taxes. It could have been a good article. Instead it only told part of the
story.

Dave Howard
San Jose

Public financing

gets my yes vote

Sunnyvale City Councilman Christopher Moylan (Page 18A, Nov. 4) correctly states
that public financing of political campaigns results in greater numbers and
diversity of candidates. However, there are other equally important benefits of
public financing. First, ask any candidate or elected official how much time is
devoted to fundraising. We have created a system that rewards candidates who
raise the most money, and those who choose to spend their time on substantive
issues do so at their own risk. Second, it is naive to expect candidates to
disregard the interests of those who fund their campaigns. If special interests
finance campaigns, candidates will give those contributors special attention.
It's just not that complicated.

Brian Carr
San Jose

In Wilcox case,

image isn't enough

The revelations contained in the investigation of Santa Clara County
Superintendent of Schools Colleen Wilcox cannot be ignored, even if her
leadership in the community is counter to their experience. Leaders often have
an outward persona that is contrary to the inner-sanctum personae where they
work. Your personal staff is what counts in organizations. The board cannot be
dismissive of charges of selective retaliation and all the other signs. Isolated
negative internal incidents usually become cumulative. This "firing" was
avoidable with pro-active, continuing supervision and timely reviews of
leadership and performance at all levels within any organization by a leader or
oversight board. A terrific public persona and outward leadership are never
enough.

Jack Kirkpatrick
Redwood City

Dying with dignity

is right of patient

I strongly agree (Editorial, Nov. 5) with the fact that a terminally ill patient
should have the right to end his or her life with dignity. My mother and father
died of cancer, and I was witness to their pain and suffering toward the end of
their lives. I cannot imagine that all doctors agree with the belief of the
California Medical Association in which a patient's right to die with dignity
conflicts with "ethical duties." For such a progressive state, the attitude of
the California Legislature is truly shameful.

Gerri Lucchesi
San Jose

Why pit bulls

are like dynamite

Danielle Martin's opinion (Letters, Nov. 4) begs for clarity. Pit bulls (and
other like breeds) are like dynamite. That is, both are very dangerous because
they have the hidden potential to explode if improperly handled. That is, the
unstable temperament of the pit bull is like the nitroglycerin hidden inside
dynamite. Only explosive experts can buy dynamite. Some pit bull owners mistreat
them, and they attack children and others when they feel threatened. The
relentless attack and destructive vise-like bite of the pit bull is legendary;
so is the destructive power of dynamite. If you need extensive training and a
license to own dynamite, the same should be true of a pit bull.

Joe Gallup
Fremont

The negative side of immigration

I am disgusted by the Mercury News' one-sided editorial opinions on illegal
immigration. I cannot recall any editorial piece in the past five years that
talks about the other side of the illegal immigration coin that encompasses the
problems caused by undocumented workers. The fact that you continue to pander to
those who would seek to render our borders meaningless is insulting to those of
us who abide by the laws of our country. For example, it would be nice to have a
piece that pointed out that, in many cases, the amnesty being proposed through
the immigration reform bill applies to not only the violation of the immigration
laws, but also to identity theft, income tax evasion and failure to file tax
returns.

Steven Stark
Cupertino

Pharmacists role

key in health care

Brendan Taylor (Letters, Nov. 2) may hope pharmacists should become obsolete,
but I've practiced medicine since 1990, both privately and at the Department of
Veterans Affairs, and I couldn't do my job without pharmacists. Questions come
up regularly regarding the safety or effectiveness of drugs that only
pharmacists can answer. They keep track of all the medications patients are
taking - medications that patients often forget to mention to their multiple
doctors - and avoid serious drug interactions before they occur. At my clinic,
we have the privilege of using them as secondary patient-care providers. They
identify and monitor side effects, and thus reduce risk of those effects. We
could no sooner do without pharmacists than business could do without CPAs to
audit their accounts.

Dr. Monica Delzeit
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday

Chung: Star-spangled welcome to citizenship

BYLINE: By L.A. Chung Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 696 words


Perhaps you've heard Angela Tirado sing the national anthem. You'd remember if
you did. It takes place on a big day, after all.

One day a month, at 10 a.m., 1 p.m. and 3 p.m., she appears on the stage of the
Heritage Theatre in Campbell before several hundred brand-new citizens at their
naturalization ceremony. She leads them, singing in a measured, clear, soprano.

The lowest notes of "Oh, say can you see?" do not faze her. Nor do the
challenging high notes of "the rockets' red glare." She sings "The Star-Spangled
Banner" as if it were a special gift for a special day. Because it is.

"It's a message for me, not just a song," she said.

Tirado, the general manager of a Sunnyvale transportation company, has been
singing the anthem as a volunteer for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Service since March 2006.

It all started when she accompanied her then-boyfriend's 75-year-old father,
Apolinar Luna, to his naturalization ceremony in Campbell.

When it came time for the national anthem, members of the federal immigration
staff did their best, inviting the audience to join in.

Tirado, an Air Force kid who'd lived in Hawaii, South Dakota and Okinawa by age
5, couldn't help herself. Luna had been her de facto father-in-law for a decade.
It was his big day. So she joined in joyfully from the balcony of the elegantly
restored 1938 Spanish Colonial Revival theater, her voice noticeable even from
above.

"Do you need some help?" she asked the staff later. Was that you up there,
queried coordinator Dan Ayran. She stayed for the next ceremony, at 1 p.m., this
time belting it out from the balcony. By the last ceremony of the day, she had
been invited to the stage.

She's been singing there ever since.

"I have to share my talent," said Tirado, a Roman Catholic, citing church
teaching: "To give of my time, talent and treasure."

Tirado is full of that spirit. She serves as music director for the 6 p.m.
Saturday Mass at Most Holy Trinity Church in East San Jose, and she also
presides over music at diocesan events, and at programs held by the San Jose
diocese's Institute for Leadership in Ministry.

She was already singing the national anthem at a few other spots around town:
mostly youth baseball games and at home games of the San Jose Frogs, a minor
league soccer team.

When she was 8, one of the nuns at Most Holy Trinity heard her sing and told her
to join the choir. But the choir director told her she was too young. Sister
Maureen persisted, instructing Tirado to tell the choir director that she would
learn any song within a week to prove, in Sister Maureen's words, that she "had
a God-given gift that needs to be shared."

So the choir director chose "Ave Maria," a difficult Latin piece, for soprano.
"I was only 8, and I was thinking what's an 'ave?' " Tirado said ruefully,
rhyming the word with "crave."

With this song, the director told her, if you truly have a God-given gift,
"you'll know."

At her audition, she bowled everyone over. How soon she could start? Tirado had
a quip ready: "Let me ask my agent." And who was that? "God," she replied with a
broad smile.

Someday, she'd like to make a CD in tribute to her mother, who passed away in
March.

Her musical ministry, as she calls it, keeps her plenty busy. Sure, she
auditioned for "American Idol" once, but, back then, as a 37-year-old mother of
three (and now four, plus two grandchildren) she thinks they deemed her too old.

Besides, she's happy to come to Campbell, usually on the third Wednesday of each
month, where as many as 450 people at a time come to be sworn in as Americans,
towing family, friends and cameras. Some e-mail pictures to her later.

On a recent October afternoon, she took the stage. She waited for everyone to
get out their copies of the "Star-Spangled Banner." This is no performance; she
wants them to participate.

She raised her hands to let them know it was time. They sing together. She looks
into their eyes in the front rows, sings up to the balcony, out and beyond.

She sings as if it were a special gift for a special day. Because it is.

The next naturalization ceremony at Campbell's Heritage Theater is Nov. 28
Contact L.A. Chung at  lchung@mercurynews.com or (408)920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Tirado after a USCIS (United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services) citizenship ceremony at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell, Calif. on
Wednesday, October 24, 2007. Tirado has been singing the National Anthem at
citizenship ceremonies this year. (Nhat V. Meyer/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended

Family widens push to link DUIs, deportation

BYLINE: By Javier Erik Olvera Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Los Gatos; Crime; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley;
Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 726 words


The family of a Los Gatos woman whose legs were mangled this summer by an
immigrant believed to be driving drunk is stepping up its campaign for stricter
deportation rules, hoping to push lawmakers to close a little-known loophole
that excludes DUIs.

Sara Cole's family has met with a handful of lawmakers, including Rep. Mike
Honda, D-Campbell, since the Sept. 9 incident in which Lucio Rodriguez allegedly
slammed into her while she was standing outside her sport-utility vehicle at a
Little League event, nearly severing her legs. The mother of four is recovering
from her injuries, but may never regain full use of her legs.

The case outraged her family after the Mercury News reported that Rodriguez -
believed to be in the country illegally - had spent 10 days in a Santa Clara
County jail in March on a misdemeanor drunken-driving count but had never been
interviewed by immigration officials to begin deportation proceedings.

The story also shone a light on cracks in an immigration system that doesn't
always whisk illegal immigrants away after convictions, but instead bases its
priorities on the seriousness of the charges against them.

Officials said one of the key problems is a lack of funds to hire more
immigration agents to monitor all cases, resulting in agents focusing on serious
felonies like murder and rape.

"Had he been deported, this wouldn't have happened to Sarah," longtime Cole
family friend Dave Burt said of Rodriguez. Burt is helping head a movement with
Cole's ex-husband, Bill Cole, to change state law so drunken-driving charges are
automatically flagged by immigration officers.

DUIs, most of which are misdemeanors, are not part of a little-known California
health-and-safety law in which authorities alert immigration agents about
inmates who could be in the country illegally. Charges involving marijuana and
cocaine distribution, for example, result in alerts.

"We obviously have a broken system, and piece by piece, we need to fix it," said
Bill Cole, who remains amicable with his ex-wife. "We think DUIs are a
significant enough offense that it should warrant deportation."

The two are starting a non-profit to educate others about gaps in the
immigration process, and they want to rally state legislators behind a movement
for what they are calling Sara's Law.

It's unclear how a possible change could affect San Jose, which is among dozens
of cities nationwide where police do not ask suspects about their immigration
status unless they are accused of serious felonies.

Bill Cole and Burt have been in contact with several lawmakers, and met with
Honda last weekend. They hope he'll encourage state lawmakers to consider
amending the health-and-safety law to add misdemeanor DUIs.

Burt and Bill Cole also hope Honda can help secure federal funding to improve
the computer system used to alert immigration officials about possible illegal
immigrants.

Honda is out of the country and couldn't be reached for comment over the
weekend. His spokesman, Jose Parra, confirmed the meeting, saying Honda was
moved by Sara Cole's story. Parra was unsure of Honda's position on possible
legislation.

Bill Cole began exploring a campaign after the Mercury News story, which
revealed that Rodriguez alerted jail officials after his March arrest that he is
foreign-born, typically a red flag for immigration agents.

Department of Justice immigration court reports show federal agents never placed
Rodriguez on a "hold," intended to ensure that immigrants in custody, if
convicted, are handed to federal officials after their sentences are completed.

It wasn't until Rodriguez's arrest after the Sara Cole collision - authorities
say he fled the scene and was so drunk he could barely stand when apprehended -
that federal agents placed a hold on him.

Rodriguez now faces a long list of felony charges, including drunken driving
causing injury, hit-and-run and driving with a suspended license (a technical
charge because he has never had a driver's license), Santa Clara County Deputy
District Attorney Cindy Hendrickson said.

He has not entered a plea. Instead, his attorney is expected to meet with
Hendrickson next month to discuss settling the case out of court.

"We're clearly not happy about what happened to Sara, but perhaps good can
happen from it," Bill Cole said.

Contact Javier Erik Olvera at jolvera@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5704.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 2007



CORRECTION:   An article on Sunday in the local section about a campaign to
tighten deportation rules for undocumented immigrants found to be driving drunk
was not clear about some of the efforts to settle the case of Lucio Rodriguez.
Lawyers for Rodriguez, accused of mangling the legs of a Los Gatos mom while
driving drunk this summer, are meeting with prosecutors inside a Santa Clara
County judge's chambers to discuss settling his case before a trial.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday

Immigration foe's fave food? Mexican!

BYLINE: By Joel Stein

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 808 words


I never thought GOP presidential candidate Tom Tancredo would eat Mexican food
with me. The Colorado congressman has proposed anti-immigration legislation so
draconian that he's been banned from the White House and called a "nut" by Jeb
Bush. And I definitely never thought Tancredo would tell me that Mexican is his
favorite cuisine. That was like finding out that CNN's Nancy Grace gets turned
on by violent criminals. Only surprising.

Tancredo agreed to our Mexican lunch during a campaign sweep through Iowa in
October. But the night before our appointment, I found out he was already headed
to Mami's Authentic Mexican Food in Muscatine for dinner. The man was planning
two Mexican meals in a row. I had little to teach him.

On my way to Mami's, however, I got a call from his aide. A local Republican had
tipped Tancredo off to the fact that Mami's owners marched in the Great American
Boycott on May Day 2006. So Tancredo was now driving all the way to Davenport to
go to Carlos O'Kelly's Mexican Cafe instead. If his campaign staff was as
skilled at finding voters as Mexican restaurants in Iowa, Tancredo would win the
nomination.

Carlos O'Kelly's makes the finest Mexican food with an Irish flair of any chain
restaurant in Iowa. The enchiladas came with a sort of hollandaise sauce that
constituted a greater insult to Mexicans than anything Tancredo has ever said.
Tancredo, who is a very likable, polite man, gave the food a very generous
C-plus. "I was sick we couldn't go to Mami's. I heard it was good," he said.
"But if they're going to boycott America, I'm going to boycott Mami's." Looking
at my enchiladas, he sighed. "For all I know, this place is owned by a big
liberal." A big liberal who hates food.

Our waiter was one of the nicest, most incompetent servers either of us had
encountered. He kept running away in the middle of our orders, apparently
distracted by either Mexican or Irish things. I told Tancredo that I wished we
were at a restaurant in Los Angeles with a Mexican waiter filling our chip
basket every two minutes. "I'm with you," he said. "These people that come to
our country are generally hard workers, and bless them for it."

For all his talk of assimilation, Tancredo conceded that Carlos O'Kelly's may,
in fact, have gone too far. He truly enjoys the authentic Mexican restaurants in
Washington, D.C., and Colorado. "Food and music are things America has always
been able to accommodate and benefit from," he said. "The thing that is
difficult is the lack of assimilation. It has nothing to do with the
appreciation of ethnicity." So Tancredo's complaints, like those of many who
oppose immigration, come down to which aspects of Mexican culture he is
personally comfortable with: language and flags, no; burritos and ballet
folklorico, yes.

History, Tancredo knows, hasn't been kind to anti-immigrant crusaders - the
Know-Nothing Party, the No-Irish-Need-Apply sign makers, the internment camps
for Japanese Americans during World War II. "But things are very different
today," he said. "Can you think of a time historically when you had millions of
people in the street on May Day saying very, very divisive stuff?" He feels that
if America is too diverse, we'll be stripped of our national identity, no longer
bound together as a country. He also feels certain that he has the wisdom to
determine exactly how much diversity is OK.

Odds are, I told him, history will judge him a racist. That may be so, he said.
Still, he's sure the U.S. will rally behind his cures: kick illegal immigrants
out; build an effective border fence; force legal immigrants to assimilate
faster. "Years from now, they'll say there was no problem. They'll say 'These
guys were racists and fear mongers.' . . . That's a big cost, you bet your
life," he said. "But we'll have solved the problem."

I never liked someone I disagreed with so strongly. He believes he is doing the
best thing for his country. I watched him talk to rabid anti-immigrant groups
for two days, and he never spoke with anger, just sadness that something he
loves is being lost. Tancredo may be a reactionary, a xenophobe and a
nationalist, but he isn't a racist.

However, if he gets his way - even if history proves him wrong - his personal
cost will be much smaller than that paid by the millions of Mexicans denied the
opportunities his own grandparents got. And smaller still than the cost to us
all when America loses the very thing that historically has given it advantages
in economic growth and innovation.

Before we left, I asked Tancredo: Instead of struggling with the problems that
stem from illegal immigration, why don't we just let more people in legally?
"Just so I can have a good Mexican restaurant?" he asked. How a man who ate the
same meal as me can even ask that question is beyond my understanding.JOEL STEIN
is a Los Angeles Times columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday

Study: Children of Latino immigrants speaking more English, less Spanish

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; National; News; Education

LENGTH: 478 words


The nation's Latinos are showing a "dramatic increase" in their English language
ability across generations, moving from a Spanish-dominant population for
immigrants, to a predominantly English-fluent population for their children, a
new report shows.

The study by the Pew Hispanic Center suggests Latinos are following a similar
trajectory as the last great wave of immigrants did in the early 20th Century,
with the nation's largest immigrant group at the start of the 21st Century
steadily assimilating into an English dominant population.

The Pew study found that while only about one in four Latino immigrants is
fluent in English, nine in 10 of their children are. By the third generation in
the U.S., three-quarters of Latino adults speak mainly or only English at home.

The Pew study provides a new window into the linguistic evolution of the
nation's 44 million Hispanics, both native and foreign-born, and includes some
data not collected by the U.S. Census Bureau.

It shows how Latino families change across the generations. About 52 percent of
Hispanic immigrants speak only Spanish at home, but just 11 percent of their
adult children speak only Spanish at home.

Latinos also say language is the biggest source of discrimination against them,
rather than skin color, immigration status or their level of income and
education.

There are significant differences in English ability based on Latino ethnic
groups and education levels, however, the study found. People born in South
America or Puerto Rico tend to speak English better than immigrants born in
Mexico.

And education is a huge factor in the English ability of Latinos, the Pew study
found. Among people with college degrees, 62 percent speak English fluently,
compared to just 11 percent of those who did not complete high school.

The Pew study also examined what language Latinos speak at work, a question the
Census does not ask. Hispanics are more likely to speak English at work than at
home, although more immigrants predominantly speak Spanish than English in the
workplace. About one-quarter of immigrants speak English and Spanish equally on
the job.

The report's authors were not willing to say whether the findings contradict the
fear of some Americans that the nation is becoming a Babel of immigrants who
lack a common tongue.

"We don't want to insert ourselves into the opinion business," said D'Vera Cohn,
co-author of the report. "Our job is to put out some facts."

While Latinos are steadily adopting English, even later generations are holding
onto their ability to speak Spanish, at least enough to conduct a conversation.

The Pew report found that 44 percent of Latino adults - both immigrants and
native born - were bilingual, and about two-thirds could carry on a conversation
in English or Spanish "pretty well" or "very well."

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 30, 2007 Friday

Foreign ties at Cal strong, study says

BYLINE: By Lisa M. Krieger Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Education; Alameda County; Peninsula; San Jose -
Valley; Communities

LENGTH: 812 words


A groundbreaking study of undergraduate students at the University of
California-Berkeley found that 63 percent either were born outside the United
States or have at least one foreign-born parent.

According to the study, immigrants or children of immigrants make up a far
larger portion of the population at the prestigious UC campus than the general
population in California, where they represent 48 percent of residents.

Berkeley also has a greater proportion of immigrants than other UC campuses,
where an average of 54 percent of students are immigrants or children of
immigrants.

Their overrepresentation at the state's flagship campus shows the strong drive
for high education attainment among immigrants, concludes the study by
researchers at UC-Berkeley's Center for Studies in Higher Education.

The study is the first effort to explore the racial, socioeconomic and academic
backgrounds of students at what is believed to be the most diverse public
research university in the nation.

"Berkeley has become a true immigrant university, providing a route for
socioeconomic mobility," said the center's John Aubrey Douglass. "Anybody who
walks around Berkeley and the other UC campuses sees that there are students of
many different backgrounds, speaking languages from all over the world.

"We wanted to know: Who are these students? What are their characteristics? This
study is our first dive into some very rich data."

Despite the cultural diversity, Berkeley students tend to share one
characteristic: educated parents. Douglass and collaborators Heinke Roebken and
Gregg Thomson conclude that the education of parents is the most significant
predictor of a student's ability to be admitted and academically succeed at
Berkeley.

The study found that 93 percent of European-American and Chinese students at
Berkeley have parents who attended college.

In contrast, only 49 percent of parents of Latino students at Berkeley have
attended college, yet this is a far higher rate than the overall Latino
population in the state.

While the study confirms stereotypes of the success of Asian-Americans in
academia, it defies another - socioeconomic status did not determine the success
of any group.

Berkeley students who come from lower-income families, particularly Latinos, do
almost as well academically as students from higher-income families, the authors
found. While these students spend more time earning money while in school, they
also spent about the same amount of time studying and going to class as other
students.

The University of California has long been a source of socioeconomic mobility in
California - and Berkeley is the most sought after by immigrants. Immigrant
groups tend to find a public education system such as UC, where costs are lower,
the easiest and best route to higher education.

European-Americans are the largest single category of Berkeley undergraduates,
representing 30 percent of the student population. Nearly 12 percent are foreign
born and 14.5 percent have at least one parent born outside the United States, a
number driven partly by recent influxes of immigrants from former Soviet states.

Although Latinos are the largest ethnic group among children and young adults in
California, they make up just 9.5 percent of Berkeley's total undergraduate
population.

"The findings don't surprise me," said Ira Mehlman, media director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that favors more
restrictions on immigration. "California has a high percentage of
first-generation immigrants and you should expect to see that reflected in kids
who enter the state university."

But the relatively low representation of Latinos at UC-Berkeley worries FAIR
because it means the ethnic group will not be able to meet the workplace needs
of the future, Mehlman said.

"It raises concerns when the largest group of youth in the state are so
underrepresented at universities like Berkeley," he said.

Nearly a third of blacks at Berkeley were born overseas or have a foreign-born
parent - not the native African-American population that is the focus of much of
the nation's affirmative action efforts.

The study, "The Immigrant University: Assessing the Dynamics of Race, Major and
Socioeconomic Characteristics at the University of California," largely
reinforces the notion that recent immigrant groups are geared more toward
careers in technology and business. Students of Chinese ancestry, for example,
gravitate toward the fields of electrical and computer sciences, civil and
mechanical engineering and molecular biology, a ready route to the health
sciences. They also outnumber European-Americans and Latinos in economics.

European-Americans are the most dominant group in political science, psychology
and English. Latinos far surpass Chinese in business administration.

Contact Lisa M. Krieger at lkrieger@mercurynews.com or (650) 688-7565.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

California news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News

LENGTH: 230 words


BARSTOW

Pit bulls maul woman

to death; 2 dogs killed

A pack of pit bulls surrounded a woman and mauled her to death, authorities said
Wednesday.

Police found Kelly Caldwell, 45, lying in the street around 9:30 p.m. Tuesday,
and took her to a hospital, where she later died, the San Bernardino County
sheriff's department said.

After the mauling, the dogs ran to a nearby house. Deputies shot one dog to
death when it returned to the scene and acted aggressively as paramedics were
trying to save Caldwell's life, authorities said.

A second dog was shot to death Wednesday when it too returned. Deputies said it
became aggressive as an animal control officer was trying to capture it.

FRESNO

Hmong ex-general

draws large crowd

A revered leader of the Hmong immigrant community urged his people to remain
united in his first public appearance in California since he was arrested for an
alleged attempt to overthrow the communist government in Laos.

Former Laotian Gen. Vang Pao addressed thousands of supporters Wednesday at
Fresno's Hmong International New Year celebration, believed to be the largest of
its kind in the United States.

The 78-year-old general thanked Hmong immigrants for their support, but did not
address allegations that he helped lead an elaborate coup attempt organized by
Laotian refugees in the United States.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 31, 2007 Monday

Shades of shameful past in anti-immigrant agenda

BYLINE: By Peter Schrag

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 664 words


Who said this?

"Immigration to this country is increasing and is making its greatest relative
increase from races most alien to the body of the American people and from the
lowest and most illiterate classes among those races . . . half of whom have no
occupation and most of whom represent the rudest form of labor.

"The immigrants who come to the United States reduce the rate of wages by
ruinous competition, and then take their savings out of the country. Home as a
foreign country. . . . They have no interest or stake in country and never
become American citizens." Many, he went on, are genetically prone to crime,
insanity and disease.

The author, in a pair of articles on "The Restriction of Immigration" for The
Atlantic magazine in 1891, was Rep. (later Sen.) Henry Cabot Lodge of
Massachusetts. His undesirables were Jews, Italians, Poles and Hungarians,
people like GOP Rep. Tom Tancredo's Sicilian great-grandparents. In those days,
of course, everybody was undocumented.

So you can say that the current debate among GOP candidates Rudy Giuliani and
Mitt Romney about who would be the meanest, toughest guy on illegal immigration
is in an American tradition almost as old as immigration itself.

The tradition goes back to the Salem witch trials - and "No Irish Need Apply"
and "The Chinese Must Go," and "Japs keep moving." Not all of it was overtly
racist. The official targets of the Great Red Scare of the 1920s were communists
and anarchists, although most of them also happened to be Italian immigrants.

And there was, of course, the pursuit of communists, alleged communists and
"fellow travelers" in the 1950s, and the blacklists and loyalty oaths that came
with it. Americans were encouraged (and often pressured) to denounce colleagues
and associates they suspected. Hollywood producers, politicians and university
trustees, including the regents of the University of California, folded under
the pressure. Many of the blacklisted never recovered.

The present furor about illegal immigrants isn't quite like any of those things.
But the attempt to exploit anti-immigrant rage and fear by politicians such as
Romney and Giuliani and by the radio talkers that thrive on the issue comes
awfully close.

Some Republicans, Karl Rove probably included, are tearing their hair. Rove and
his former boss, George W. Bush, worked hard to appeal to the growing body of
Latino voters. But like John McCain, they got ripped for their sponsorship of
the comprehensive immigration reform bill that got filibustered to death by
hard-liners last June.

And now that immigration is again a hot-button issue, Romney and Giuliani, among
others, have taken a page from former California Gov. Pete Wilson's old 1994
playbook, trading short-term political gain for disastrous long-term losses in
support from the growing ranks of Latino voters. "Some in the party seem
pleased," said former Bush speechwriter Michael Gerson. "They should be
terrified."

Until recently, McCain and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee were the honorable
exceptions among the GOP candidates. Huckabee, who got whacked by Romney for
backing in-state tuition for the children of illegal immigrants, replied, "In
all due respect, we are a better country than to punish children for what their
parents did." But since then, as he rose in the polls (and read the polls) he's
signed on to his own version of the Tancredo creed. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton,
like Giuliani another recent convert who's read the same polls, is running for
cover.

The damage is not only to rational discourse about immigration but also in the
futile diversion from the real sources of the real fears - about off-shoring and
job security, health care, corporate power and fraud and a long list of fading
certainties - that feed the issue. Sooner or later we'll probably look back at
this episode with the same embarrassment and shame as we did the others, but it
could be an ugly time until we get there.PETER SCHRAG is a Sacramento Bee
columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 12, 2008 Saturday

Native languages in valley fade as immigrants' children embrace U.S. culture

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Education; San Jose - Valley; Communities

LENGTH: 1331 words


It's Sunday morning at Gunderson High in San Jose, and hundreds of Asian
children and teenagers throng into language classes that even spill into the
hallways.

They're learning English, right?

In fact, they're American kids who speak English with a Northern California
accent who have come to the Van Lang Vietnamese Language & Culture School
because their immigrant parents want them to learn Vietnamese. They are among a
growing number of immigrant parents enrolling their children in Vietnamese,
Hindi and Spanish classes, in an effort to preserve their culture against the
all-powerful pull of English.

While some Americans fear the country is becoming a collection of ethnic tribes
lacking a common language because immigrants aren't learning English, immigrants
have a different perspective, looking at their own children. Many believe their
kids are adopting English at such a rapid rate that American culture is erasing
all foreign languages imported to its shores.

Statistics drive home that point, demonstrating the truth behind America's
reputation among linguists as a "graveyard of languages."

Even given the 5 million resident immigrants who have arrived in California
since 1990, a significantly higher share of children and teenagers in immigrant
families speak English fluently now than two decades ago, a Mercury News
analysis of Census Bureau data shows.

In 1990, just 57 percent of California kids - ages 5 through 17 - in
Spanish-speaking households spoke English fluently. Now, 74 percent speak
English fluently. That number is nearly the same in families who speak an Asian
language.

Bilingualism is on the rise; a decreasing share of California households speak
only English. But a recent national study by the Pew Hispanic Center found that
while fewer than one in four Latino immigrants are fluent in English, 88 percent
of their U.S.-born children are fluent.

The question isn't whether the children of today's immigrants will speak English
when they grow up, linguists and experts in language assimilation say. It's
whether those children - and the children of those children - will even
understand the languages their parents and grandparents brought to America.

Van Lang has grown from a circle of 10 students in a San Jose garage in 1982 to
about 1,100 students today - with a waiting list.

At the India Community Center in Milpitas, language director Madhu Aggarwal has
seen a surge in the number of parents interested in Indian language classes and
worried that their children are losing touch with Indian culture.

Young Californians who grew up in non-English-speaking households say the
ubiquity of English - on TV, in school, spoken by friends - means they
inevitably make the switch to English.

Vietnamese was 14-year-old Thu Quynh Phan's first language, but after she
started public school, she quickly became English-dominant. "Everywhere around
you, you hear English," said Thu, who lives in Gilroy. After seven years of
classes at Van Lang, Thu speaks Vietnamese "pretty well."

Sandhini Agarwal, 6, is taking Hindi in afternoon classes at the Palo Alto
International School of the Peninsula. But in class, when Sandhini and other
children speak between Hindi exercises, it's in American-accented English.

"Oh wow! Cool!" Sandhini bursts out when classmate Calvin Grewal, 7, shows her a
person he made out of dough.

Raghav Rajvanshy, 12, of Fremont remembers speaking some Hindi when he was
small, but he lost it as he got older. Though Raghav is studying Hindi now, he
generally speaks only English to friends, even to members of families who speak
Hindi.

"Say you were talking about Harry Potter or something - it would be hard to talk
about that in Hindi because there are lot of words, like 'sorcerers' and stuff,
that you can't really translate," Raghav explained.

Every foreign language in California, including Spanish, is on a pathway to
"linguistic death" by a family's third generation in the United States, said
Rubén Rumbaut, a sociologist at University of California-Irvine who studies
linguistic assimilation.

Based on a multigenerational study of Southern California immigrants, Rumbaut
plotted "linguistic life expectancies" for Spanish, Asian and European languages
in California. While Mexicans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans preserved their
Spanish longer than Koreans, Vietnamese and Filipinos preserved their mother
tongues, no foreign language survived far beyond the third generation.

"Like taxes and biological death, linguistic death seems to be a sure thing in
the United States, even for Mexicans living in Los Angeles, a city with one of
the largest Spanish-speaking urban populations in the world," Rumbaut concluded
in a 2006 article.

California's linguistic picture varies by age. Census data shows that adults -
particularly Latinos - are not making strides toward English fluency - perhaps
one reason for the perception that immigrants aren't trying to learn English.

Some argue that perception is unfair because so many immigrants arrived as
adults, when it's much more difficult to learn a language because of the brain's
developmental changes after puberty.

"Age at arrival is the single most important determinant of English fluency
among immigrants," Rumbaut said.

It took about three generations, linguists say, for immigrants to become
English-dominant communities during the last great immigration wave, at the turn
of the 20th century. But English has a political and cultural charisma today
that it didn't have a century ago, meaning immigrants are more likely to arrive
knowing some English.

"The globalization of culture makes English a dominant language," said John
Moore, a linguist at the University of California-San Diego, who noted that "a
majority of the ads on Spanish-language media are systems for learning English."

Bay Area immigrant parents increasingly want to teach the language of their
native countries to their American-born children, language instructors say.

"I think the second and third-generation parents, they are in between," said
Aggarwal, who hopes to launch Hindi classes in four Bay Area public school
districts this fall. "They don't speak the language fluently, but they feel it's
essential to preserve the culture."

At the Catholic Diocese of San Jose, religious instructors have noted that some
Spanish-speaking parents choose to enroll their English-speaking children in
Spanish religious classes as one means of preserving family Spanish.

"The kids who we know cannot really follow in Spanish, we give them an English
bible," said Joseph Khanh, director of religious education for the English and
Spanish community at the St. Patrick Proto-Cathedral.

The Van Lang school, parents and teachers say, is about preserving Vietnamese
identity along with the language.

"We want our kids to know who they are," said Tuan Phuoc Le, the school's
director.

Don Nguyen of Santa Clara brings his two teenage daughters to Van Lang because
he and his wife want to preserve the best things in Vietnamese culture amid the
American culture shaping his daughters.

"They are born here, but at least they have to understand the source of their
parents - the originality of their parents - and also the traditions," Nguyen
said.

One recent Sunday, in a class of students ages 5 and 6, children were learning
the Vietnamese alphabet and the language's basic sounds. In a classroom filled
with high school students, the instruction was entirely in conversational
Vietnamese as teacher Son Canh Duong explained that the literal phrase for
"driving a horse" in English translates to "selling a horse" in Vietnamese.

When a visitor entered the classroom, students stood and recited a welcome - a
gesture of respect.

Le said some of his students seek more than language.

Recently, some U.S.-born college-aged Vietnamese have come to him with little or
no knowledge of the language, but a hunger to reconnect to their heritage.

"They told me," he said, "that they are lost."

Contact Mike Swift at  mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Students, including Anthony Quach (6) of Santa Clara, center, work on
Vietnamese language problems during a 1st level Vietnamese language class at the
Van Lang Vietnamese Language & Culture Education Center at Gunderson High School
in San Jose on December 17, 2007. (Joanne Ho-Young Lee/Mercury News)
Natalie Pham (6), left, gets assistance from teacher Yen Huynh (23) during the
1st level (beginner's) Vietnamese language class at the Van Lang Vietnamese
Language & Culture Education Center at Gunderson High School in San Jose on
December 17, 2007. (Joanne Ho-Young Lee/Mercury News)
Natalie Pham (6), left, works on a Vietnamese language question with help from
Sandy Vo (6), right, during a 1st level (beginner's) Vietnamese language class
at the Van Lang Vietnamese Language & Culture Education Center at Gunderson High
School in San Jose on December 17, 2007. (Joanne Ho-Young Lee/Mercury News)
Natalie Pham (6) reads her Vietnamese language workbook at the 1st level
(beginner's) Vietnamese language class at the Van Lang Vietnamese Language &
Culture Education Center at Gunderson High School in San Jose on December 17,
2007. (Joanne Ho-Young Lee/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday

Immigrants are becoming citizens faster than past decades

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 1038 words


Orlino and Jonah Ordona of San Jose were concerned about rising immigration
fees. Pre-med student Shilpa Muddagowni of Cupertino has her eye on a medical
residency. Kenneth Leung of Berkeley wants to vote for John McCain in the Feb. 5
primary.

From hard-headed pragmatism to the civic idealism of voting, the immigrants who
stood in line outside federal immigration offices in San Jose Friday morning had
a range of reasons why they were there to become U.S. citizens.

"My kids are going to be growing up in this land. I don't want to be an
observer," said Jia-Huey Yuan, 38, of Santa Clara, moments after she took the
oath of citizenship. "I want to participate and really make an impact, to the
society and to the nation."

According to a new and unprecedented analysis from the Department of Homeland
Security, newer immigrants are moving more quickly into citizenship than those
who became permanent residents in the 1970s and 1980s.

Among Asian immigrants who got their green cards in the early 1990s, between 53
and 59 percent went on to become citizens within 10 years, up from about 44
percent among Asians who got green cards in the early 1980s.

And while only about 20 percent of Mexican immigrants receiving green cards in
the 1990s became citizens within a decade, Mexican immigrants "exhibited the
greatest relative increase in [naturalization] rates between the earliest and
latest cohorts," said the report, released this week by Homeland Security's
Office of Immigration Statistics.

Based on federal data between 1973 and 2005, this new, authoritative analysis is
based on actual administrative records instead of polls or other statistical
samples.

Because the study compared the path to citizenship of legal immigrants in
different decades, it presents a fresh and intriguing view of how legal
immigration is evolving.

Meanwhile, there are other signs the movement of immigrants into citizenship
appears to be accelerating. In the wake of the immigration protests of 2006 and
the citizenship drives that followed, the number of citizenship applications
submitted to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services nearly doubled in the
2007 fiscal year over the previous year, to almost 1.4 million.

The new study provides "a much more accurate estimate of citizenship acquisition
among immigrants eligible to apply than almost all prior studies," said Irene
Bloemraad, a sociologist at the University of California Berkeley and the author
of "Becoming a Citizen - Incorporating Immigrants and Refugees in the United
States and Canada."

And in light of the coming elections, "immigrants might become a greater force
in politics in the future," Bloemraad said, "if the trends continue and
citizenship gets translated into voting."

Still, Bloemraad and others cautioned, citizenship does not necessarily equal
cultural assimilation.

"High rates of naturalization aren't necessarily a sign that everything is hunky
dory," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, a Washington, D.C. think tank that wants tighter controls on
immigration. "There are plenty of people who are not assimilated in a deeper
sense, not socially or emotionally assimilated, but they still become citizens.
They don't identify with America as their country and Americans as their people.
They have a passport of convenience."

Krikorian and other experts agreed that 1996 welfare reform changes that limited
social benefits to citizens, excluding legal residents, were a factor in people
seeking citizenship in greater numbers. They disagree about the interpretation
of that effect.

Krikorian said some people have become citizens since the mid-1990s to claim
welfare, food stamps and other government benefits. He said CIS research showed
that "the groups with the highest rates of welfare use also had the highest
rates of naturalization."

Others argue that relatively few take the oath of citizenship just for a
government benefit check.

"People who get up and move long distances, pay a lot of money to go to a new
place, who often risk life and limb to get to a country, are generally
incredibly motivated people," said Tomas Jimenez, a sociologist at the
University of California, San Diego, and a fellow at the New America Foundation.
"They are not generally the kind of people who are motivated to go to another
country to sit on welfare. That's not to say it never happens, but you're
getting essentially a lot of Type A personalities."

But from welfare and immigration reform acts of the mid-1990s, to travel
restrictions and distrust of foreigners after the Sept. 11 attacks, to rising
immigration fees and a perception of increasing hostility to immigrants,
immigrant rights groups agree the distinction between Legal Permanent Resident
and citizen has widened.

"Within the last 10 years, it's become more worthwhile to become a citizen,"
said Jeffrey Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center, whose research also suggests a
surge in citizenship among newer immigrants. "There are a number of things that
are not available to legal immigrants that used to be, and there are some
protections available to citizens that didn't used to be so necessary."

From eligibility for government jobs to immigration fees, there were plenty of
practical reasons immigrants waiting outside the US Citizenship and Immigration
Services offices on Monterey Road Friday morning gave for their decision to seek
citizenship.

Yuan, a scientist turned stay-at-home mom, said she had also thought about the
many government jobs require citizenship. Like many other soon-to-be-citizens,
Yuan said this year's presidential election is a definite factor.

Hugo Calderon of San Jose, a native of Mexico who became a citizen Friday, eight
years after getting his green card, hasn't chosen who he'll support for
president. He just knows he's going to vote.

Ligia Henriquez of Santa Clara, a native of Nicaragua who got her green card
five years ago, wanted to make sure she became a citizen in time to vote for
president. She declined to say who will get her first vote.

"The right to vote is very important for me," said Henriquez. "How can I
explain? You can decide who is better for the country."

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday

From green card to U.S. passport

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; Special Reports;
News; National; Local

LENGTH: 1037 words


Orlino and Jonah Ordona of San Jose were concerned about rising immigration
fees. Premed student Shilpa Muddagowni of Cupertino has her eye on a medical
residency. Kenneth Leung of Berkeley wants to vote for John McCain in the Feb. 5
primary.

From hard-headed pragmatism to the civic idealism of voting, the immigrants who
stood in line outside federal immigration offices in San Jose on Friday morning
had several reasons why they were there to become U.S. citizens.

"My kids are going to be growing up in this land. I don't want to be an
observer," said Jia-Huey Yuan, 38, of Santa Clara, moments after she took the
oath of citizenship. "I want to participate and really make an impact, to the
society and to the nation."

According to a new and unprecedented analysis from the Department of Homeland
Security, newer immigrants are moving more quickly into citizenship than those
who became permanent residents in the 1970s and 1980s.

Among Asian immigrants who received their green cards in the early 1990s, from
53 percent to 59 percent went on to become citizens within 10 years, up from
about 44 percent among Asians who got green cards in the early 1980s.

And while only about 20 percent of Mexican immigrants receiving green cards in
the 1990s became citizens within a decade, Mexican immigrants "exhibited the
greatest relative increase in (naturalization) rates between the earliest and
latest cohorts," said the report, released this week by Homeland Security's
Office of Immigration Statistics.

Based on federal data from 1973 to 2005, this new, authoritative analysis is
based on actual administrative records instead of polls or other statistical
samples.

Because the study compared the path to citizenship of legal immigrants in
different decades, it presents a fresh and intriguing view of how legal
immigration is evolving.

Meanwhile, there are other signs the movement of immigrants into citizenship
appears to be accelerating. In the wake of the immigration protests of 2006 and
the citizenship drives that followed, the number of citizenship applications
submitted to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services nearly doubled in the
2007 fiscal year over the previous year, to almost 1.4 million.

The new study provides "a much more accurate estimate of citizenship acquisition
among immigrants eligible to apply than almost all prior studies," said Irene
Bloemraad, a sociologist at the University of California-Berkeley and the author
of "Becoming a Citizen - Incorporating Immigrants and Refugees in the United
States and Canada."

And in light of the coming elections, "immigrants might become a greater force
in politics in the future," Bloemraad said, "if the trends continue and
citizenship gets translated into voting."

Still, Bloemraad and others cautioned, citizenship does not necessarily equal
cultural assimilation.

"High rates of naturalization aren't necessarily a sign that everything is
hunky-dory," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., think tank that wants tighter controls
on immigration. "There are plenty of people who are not assimilated in a deeper
sense, not socially or emotionally assimilated, but they still become citizens.
They don't identify with America as their country and Americans as their people.
They have a passport of convenience."

Krikorian and other experts agreed that 1996 welfare system changes that limited
social benefits to citizens, excluding legal residents, were a factor in people
seeking citizenship in greater numbers. They disagree about the interpretation
of that effect.

Krikorian said some people have become citizens since the mid-1990s to claim
welfare, food stamps and other government benefits. He said CIS research showed
that "the groups with the highest rates of welfare use also had the highest
rates of naturalization."

Others argue that relatively few take the oath of citizenship just for a
government benefit check.

"People who get up and move long distances, pay a lot of money to go to a new
place, who often risk life and limb to get to a country, are generally
incredibly motivated people," said Tomas Jimenez, a sociologist at the
University of California-San Diego, and a fellow at the New America Foundation.
"They are not generally the kind of people who are motivated to go to another
country to sit on welfare. That's not to say it never happens, but you're
getting essentially a lot of Type A personalities."

But from welfare and immigration reform acts of the mid-1990s, to travel
restrictions and distrust of foreigners after the Sept. 11 attacks, to rising
immigration fees and a perception of increasing hostility to immigrants,
immigrant rights groups agree the distinction between legal permanent resident
and citizen has widened.

"Within the last 10 years, it's become more worthwhile to become a citizen,"
said Jeffrey Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center, whose research also suggests a
surge in citizenship among newer immigrants. "There are a number of things that
are not available to legal immigrants that used to be, and there are some
protections available to citizens that didn't used to be so necessary."

From eligibility for government jobs to immigration fees, there were plenty of
practical reasons that immigrants waiting outside U.S. immigration offices on
Monterey Road on Friday morning gave for their decision to seek citizenship.

Yuan, a scientist turned stay-at-home mom, said she had also thought about the
many government jobs that require citizenship. Like many other
soon-to-be-citizens, Yuan said this year's presidential election is a definite
factor.

Hugo Calderon of San Jose, a native of Mexico who became a citizen Friday, eight
years after getting his green card, hasn't chosen whom he'll support for
president. He just knows he's going to vote.

Ligia Henriquez of Santa Clara, a native of Nicaragua who got her green card
five years ago, wanted to make sure she became a citizen in time to vote for
president. She declined to say who will get her first vote.

"The right to vote is very important for me," Henriquez said. "How can I
explain? You can decide who is better for the country."

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Left) Malaysian-born Gary Yeap of Fremont takes the Oath of Allegiance
for American Citizenship during the special naturalization ceremony aboard the
USS Hornet in Alameda on July 3, 2006. Yeap is one of 75 East Bay residents who
became U.S. citizens on monday morning in Alameda. The event is one of several
citizenship ceremonies held during July 4 week. (Joanne Ho-Young Lee/Mercury
News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday

Deportation pact highlights changing U.S.-Viet relations

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 750 words


In two months, the U.S. government will begin deporting more than 8,000 illegal
Vietnamese immigrants as a result of a long-sought repatriation agreement signed
Tuesday by Washington and Hanoi.

The pact deals with a once-forbidden subject in the emigre community - the
forced return of Vietnamese nationals to their communist homeland - and it
underscores how close Vietnam-U.S. relations have become.

In addition, the muted reaction Tuesday in San Jose's 100,000-strong Vietnamese
community illustrated how much emigre politics have changed in the once rigidly
anti-communist stronghold.

Although some worried that the communist regime might retaliate against
repatriated emigres, most Vietnamese-Americans interviewed Tuesday seemed to
view the agreement as a natural outcome of the growing ties between two former
enemies.

"It's normal," said Hoang Co Dinh of San Jose, a member of the Vietnam
pro-democracy group Viet Tan.

A good step

Antoinette Haupt, a Palo Alto hairdresser who immigrated from Vietnam four years
before the Vietnam War ended in 1975, called the agreement a good step to
address illegal immigration.

"If you take illegals from one country, you should take them from all
countries," said Haupt, who in the past has joined demonstrations denouncing
Hanoi. "It has to be equal."

Under the renewable five-year agreement signed in Hanoi by Vietnamese Foreign
Ministry officials and Julie L. Myers, assistant secretary for the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, officials of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement can now repatriate undocumented Vietnamese who have been ordered
deported by an immigration judge.

Most of the illegal immigrants - about 7,300 Vietnamese - have criminal
convictions that made them subject to deportation, according to the Department
of Homeland Security. Others overstayed visitor visas.

It was unclear Tuesday how many of the undocumented Vietnamese live in San Jose
and the rest of the Bay Area. But Santa Clara County has the second-largest
concentration of Vietnamese in the country, so it's suspected that hundreds of
undocumented Vietnamese live here.

Many who were ordered deported were released on parole from immigration
detention. These include Vietnamese who completed jail time for crimes that made
them eligible for deportation. Although they were required to regularly report
to immigration officers, many were able to establish semi-normal lives and
obtain work permits because they were in legal limbo.

A U.S. Supreme Court decision prevented the federal government from holding the
undocumented immigrants in detention for more than six months.

The repatriation of the Vietnamese has been in limbo for more than a decade
since the United States stopped admitting refugees from Vietnam in the early
1990s.

Even with a judge's order in hand, the U.S. government was unable to deport
undocumented Vietnamese because Hanoi refused to accept them. But as diplomatic
and economic ties grew since the United States lifted a trade embargo in 1994
and normalized relations a year later, discussions of repatriating undocumented
Vietnamese began in earnest.

"Agreements such as this are the building blocks of diplomacy," Myers said in a
news release. "This agreement allows us to carry out a judge's order to remove
individuals from our country in a safe and humane manner."

The U.S. government will pay for the cost of deporting the Vietnamese nationals,
a process that is expected to begin in two months. About 6,400 have final
deportation orders, and an additional 1,668 are in deportation proceedings, said
Mike Keegan, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Washington,
D.C.

Future treatment

Loc Vu, a former colonel in the South Vietnam army who now runs a refugee
resettlement agency in San Jose, said he agrees that the United States is simply
trying to enforce its own immigration laws. But he expressed concern about the
treatment of those deported once in Vietnam.

"Maybe they will be welcomed at first," he said. "Then after a few months, who
knows?"

The deportation of the Vietnamese nationals will have a far-reaching impact on
the lives of their families. Many will leave behind children, parents, husbands
and wives who are U.S. citizens or living here legally.

"Does it really justify breaking up families?" said Diem Do, another member of
the pro-democracy group Viet Tan. "To me this is a very emotional issue. I look
at this as more of a humanitarian issue."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday

California lawmakers seek delay in forcing immigrants' return to Vietnam

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; San Jose - Valley; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 751 words


As confusion and fear swirl around a new agreement to send illegal immigrants
and criminals back to their native Vietnam, California legislators, led by U.S.
Rep. Zoe Lofgren, have asked the federal government to delay the pact's
implementation.

"It is appalling and unbelievable that this administration would even consider
returning those who escaped communism back to the clutches of the very
communists that they escaped," Lofgren, D-San Jose, wrote in a letter to
Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff.

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, and Barbara Lee, D-Oakland, and 11 other
legislators also signed the letter.

The Department of Homeland Security has not responded to Lofgren's letter, but a
spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said the agency will
issue a response soon.

Lofgren's concerns about reprisal echo sentiments expressed by some Vietnamese
emigres in San Jose, which has more people of Vietnamese ancestry than any city
outside of Vietnam.

Cuong Nguyen, a spokesman for the Vietnamese Embassy, said, "Returnees have
always been treated humanely."

Added Nguyen: "There exists no discrimination or maltreatment."

But Lofgren, citing a 2006 U.S. State Department report, said Vietnam restricts
religious, political and press freedoms and has been accused by human rights
groups of abusing suspects in detention.

The agreement signed by Washington and Hanoi last week also caused anxiety among
Vietnamese-Americans in the Bay Area because of confusion over who is affected.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that struck the agreement
with Hanoi, said that Vietnamese nationals who arrived on or after July 12,
1995, face repatriation.

That affects about 1,500 immigrants and includes those who overstayed student or
tourist visas, immigration officials said. It also includes legal immigrants who
are being deported for criminal convictions.

Initially, the Department of Homeland Security, the agency that oversees ICE,
said 8,000 Vietnamese faced deportation.

But more than 6,500 other Vietnamese who have also been ordered deported - but
who arrived before July 1995 - do not face repatriation under the new agreement,
said Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for ICE, trying to clarify the agreement's
terms.

Most of the 6,500 have criminal convictions and have been ordered deported
previously. But they will remain in immigration limbo for now because they have
been ordered deported but can't be sent back to Vietnam because the country
refuses to accept them.

"The date in the agreement is the line in the sand," Nantel said. "There isn't a
plan for us to move that date backward."

But not everyone is so sure.

Legal experts and many Vietnamese who have old deportation orders fear that the
new agreement is the beginning of a government effort to repatriate more
Vietnamese in the future.

"I worry a lot," said Dung Ha, a nail salon worker in Stockton who has a brother
and sister in San Jose. "Right now I'm OK. I'm scared for the future."

Ha, 47, arrived from Vietnam in 1991 with his wife and children. But in 2000,
while living in Lodi, Ha was convicted of sexual assault. He was sentenced to a
year in prison and was in immigration detention for another year, then ordered
deported.

Like many Vietnamese in the same situation, Ha was paroled by the immigration
service because it couldn't by law detain him indefinitely, or return him to
Vietnam.

"I don't care about myself," he said. "I'm old. They'll treat me badly. But I
worry about leaving my family."

Ha's wife and three sons have since become U.S. citizens.

The agreement is scheduled to take effect in two months and will be valid for
five years.

Many immigration advocates, meanwhile, raise questions about the government's
intentions.

"It's not very clear and it's rather confusing," said Minh Steven Dovan, a
criminal defense attorney in San Jose who has represented Vietnamese nationals.
"I think the administration is trying to cast a wide net to cover as many cases
as possible."

As in Ha's case, family members of Vietnamese facing deportation - legal
immigrants and U.S. citizens - will also be hurt by the new agreement, said
Sin-Yen Ling, a staff attorney with the Asian Law Caucus, a legal aid group that
has fielded dozens of calls and queries about the new agreement.

"Those who have worked hard, who have turned their lives around," Ling said,
"could lose everything they've worked for - and their families."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday

Mexico's president to visit California

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL; State; News; Politics; Breaking

LENGTH: 624 words


SACRAMENTO - Mexican President Felipe Calderón will make his first - and some
have argued overdue - official visit to California on Wednesday as part of a
tour of major U.S. cities in an effort to reach out to the 12 million Mexican
immigrants in this country.

In California, Calderón will address the state Legislature and attend a private
lunch meeting with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez and
other officials.

He is also scheduled to tour a wine country vineyard owned by an immigrant from
his home state, Michoacán, and meet with migrant workers in Los Angeles. His
appearance in California culminates a tour that includes stops in Boston, New
York and Chicago.

"There has been a lot of criticism from Mexican leaders in the U.S., that he
hasn't traveled to this country, he hasn't visited with them," said Andrew
Selee, director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars. "And unlike Vicente Fox," the former president, "he hasn't
paid the kind of consistent attention to Mexican communities in the United
States, and he's trying to address that."

Fox made a similar trip to California in 2006.

The acting Mexican consul in San Jose, Jose Loreto, said Calderón, who took
office in late 2006 after a close election against a liberal candidate, has been
too busy dealing with internal matters to schedule a trip north.

"His main objective is to get close to community groups," Loreto acknowledged.

Although he won't be meeting with President Bush or going to Washington, D.C.,
Calderón is expected to speak consistently about the plight of Mexican
immigrants. Calderón has publicly stated his concern for the "growing
harassment" and "frank persecution" of Mexicans in the United States.

His comments, made to the Mexican government's migrant assistance agency in
November, were in apparent reference to U.S. presidential candidates who voiced
their desire to curb illegal immigration; he's also expressed disappointment at
Congress' inability to agree on an immigration reform measure.

Calderón, who holds a master's degree in public administration from the John F.
Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, told an audience of students
and faculty there Monday evening: "It's important to change the perception that
Mexicans are the enemy."

Calderón is expected to share his sentiment about immigration when he addresses
a joint session of the California Legislature.

Fox used the same platform to push for immigration reform in a speech to the
state Legislature in May 2006, a day when several Republicans in attendance
silently protested Mexico's economic and education policies, which they said
lead to illegal immigration, by wearing yellow buttons with the phrase "No mas,"
or, no more.

On Wednesday morning, Calderón, 45, will meet privately with the Latino
Legislative Caucus as well as Senate and Assembly leaders from both parties
before addressing both houses.

Speaker Núñez said Calderón's visit underscores the importance of economic and
cultural ties between both countries.

"People are going to see a young president who is very practical and understands
that, beyond the racial biases that some Americans have about Mexico, there is
strength in that economic interdependency that exists between California and
Mexico," Núñez said.

Mexico accounts for nearly $20 billion in export trade from California each
year, according to the governor's office.

After the luncheon, Calderón and his delegation will head to Robledo Winery,
which is owned by a family whose patriarch immigrated from Atacheo, Michoacán,
39 years ago to pick grapes.

Calderón will then fly to Los Angeles to meet with Mexican immigrants.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday

California's diversity a cue for U.S.

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; State; National; News; Special Reports; Politics

LENGTH: 838 words


What will America look like in 2050? If you're talking about people, America at
mid-century might look a whole lot like California looks today.

Immigrants, and their children and grandchildren, will push the U.S. population
to 438 million people by 2050, accounting for 82 percent, or 117 million, of the
people America will add in the coming decades, according to projections released
Monday by the Pew Research Center, a prominent Washington, D.C., think tank.

No ethnic group will be in the majority, with whites at 47 percent of the
population and Hispanics growing to just under one-third, Pew's 2050 projections
said. Asians will nearly double their share of the national population, to about
9 percent, while blacks will hold steady at 13 percent of Americans.

And sometime between 2020 and 2025, the share of immigrants in the U.S.
population will surpass its historic peak of about 15 percent, a point last
reached between 1890 and 1910. By 2050, about 19 percent of the population is
projected to be immigrants, Pew said.

The Pew projections are somewhat higher - particularly for Hispanics and Asians
- than what the Census Bureau projected in 2004, when it last tried to peer into
the nation's demographic future, but the Pew study includes updated trends in
legal and illegal immigration, lifespan and fertility.

As a herald of what much of the rest of the nation can expect, the projections
suggest California's intense battles over growth, language and society's
responsibility to immigrants will be reprised in states like North Carolina,
parts of the Midwest and other areas that have had little experience with
immigration for the bigger part of a century.

"California is the leading edge," said Hans Johnson, a demographer for the
Public Policy Institute of California. "At the same time, we aren't talking
about changes uniformly through the nation."

In California, immigrants are already 27 percent of the population; in Santa
Clara County, they're 36 percent. California is expected to reach a population
of about 60 million by 2050 - 16 million more than in 2000, according to recent
state Department of Finance projections. That forecast was a basis of Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger's controversial bid to build more dams and other
infrastructure.

The authors of the Pew study, Jeffrey S. Passel and D'Vera Cohn, took no
position on whether the immigration-fueled growth would be good or bad, and the
think tank also cautioned that the projections are not a prediction - rather,
they are a look at what will happen if current trends in immigration policy and
demographics continue. About 58 percent of the nation's population growth from
1980 to 2005 was because of immigration.

But the results could intensify the nation's debate about immigration, already a
central part of the 2008 presidential campaign.

Is the projected growth "something that we want to do?" asked Steven A. Camarota
of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington group that favors curbs on
immigration. "What's so striking is that in California, it seems everybody is
concerned about congestion and pollution, the loss of open space and
greenhouse-gas emissions. There's a debate going on about immigration, and the
question is, why not talk about them together?"

Camarota called California, in light of the Pew projections, "the harbinger of
the future" in its growing population density.

"Does California function? Does it work? Absolutely, it works," he said. "It's
just - try to get out of your garage sometimes. One would not want to think of
California as a model of integration, but it's not wholesale chaos, either."

There are other implications in the Pew projections, however. While the nation's
population will get bigger and more diverse, it also will get much older - with
a much higher share of elderly people and a smaller share of children. The share
of the working-age population, people ages 18 to 64, will shrink.

That means 72 young and elderly people, or potential dependents, for every 100
working-age people in 2050. That compares with 59 dependents per 100 workers
today.

"Californians are anti-growth, so this" projected immigrant growth "sounds bad,
except for one thing: What are you going to do about these baby boomers?" said
Dowell Myers, a University of Southern California demographer and author of
"Immigrants and Boomers: Forging a New Social Contract for the Future of
America."

"We have a huge problem for the next 20 years as these guys retire," he said.
"We have to somehow balance them with younger people."

If the nation is voyaging toward what Camarota called "uncharted territory" in
setting a new record for its share of immigrants, Myers said the forces of
linguistic and cultural assimilation may transform Hispanic immigrants just as
they did earlier generations of Europeans.

"The real question, really simply, is: 'What is a Latino in the year 2050?' "
Myers said. "What's the difference between an Italian and a regular American
today?"

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday

Editorial: U.S.-Vietnam deportation plan needs 2nd look

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Opinion

LENGTH: 414 words


For years, America has offered a beacon of hope and freedom for people from all
over the world. That's one big reason the United States has more than 1 million
immigrants from Vietnam, many of whom fled war and oppression in their homeland.

So it's disturbing that U.S. immigration officials, under a new Washington-Hanoi
repatriation pact, soon will begin deporting undocumented Vietnamese back to the
authoritarian country they left. This reversal of longstanding practice is
troubling on political and humanitarian grounds. Officials should hold off on
the deportations until Congress can review the situation more closely, as Rep.
Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and 12 other lawmakers have suggested.

To be sure, many of the illegal immigrants who could be sent back have criminal
convictions in the United States. Those who have committed serious felonies,
such as murder, kidnapping or child sexual abuse should not be given refuge
here. But those convicted of lesser crimes, have already completed jail time or
simply overstayed their visas are another matter. It makes sense to take a
closer look at these individual cases.

The pact signed in late January affects about 1,500 Vietnamese nationals who
arrived here on or after July 12, 1995, and are in deportation proceedings or
have received a final deportation order. The pact doesn't affect those who
arrived earlier, since the United States did not have diplomatic relations with
Vietnam then.

Overall, there are about 8,000 Vietnamese nationals facing deportation; about
7,000 of them have criminal convictions.

The United States has repatriation agreements with many countries, but most of
them are not authoritarian. Vietnam is unique because of its legacy of war and
persecution, the U.S. role in Vietnam's history and the poor human rights record
of the communist government in Hanoi. Its unsatisfactory record has been
recently documented by the U.S. State Department, among others.

Returnees would likely face abuse or discrimination from a government that
doesn't look kindly on their leaving in the first place. Lofgren, who chairs a
House subcommittee on immigration, notes that the United States doesn't send
illegal Cuban immigrants back to Fidel Castro's regime.

The United States has long been respected for welcoming foreigners, who enrich
and strengthen American society. And the United States has served as a model for
freedom and democracy. Immigration officials should tread carefully in order to
uphold those ideals.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday

Mexican president challenges anti-immigration rhetoric

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 679 words


Less than two years after taking office, Mexican President Felipe Calderón is
getting mixed reviews from the Mexican people. On the one hand, he gets high
marks for reforming the tax system, fixing a massive public pension fund and
launching a $25 billion public works initiative. But he is also getting flak for
not being vocal enough in protesting what many Mexicans see as the harsh and
unfair treatment of their sons and daughters in the United States.

That is a fascinating turnabout. Not long ago, Mexicans were much too proud to
think about the migrants who fled to the north searching for better
opportunities. Now they're demanding that their leaders go to bat for these
expatriates against what they see as a cruelty born of American xenophobia.

And that's why Calderón is on a whirlwind, five-day swing though the United
States with stops in Boston, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and Sacramento.
Aides say that the main purpose of the trip is to focus attention on the Mexican
immigrant community in this country.

Even before leaving Mexico City, Calderón set off fireworks with provocative
interviews in U.S. newspapers. He surveyed the U.S. presidential race and -
without mentioning specific candidates - noted approvingly that moderates have
done well. "The most radical and anti-immigrant candidates have been left behind
and have been put in their place by their own electorate," he told one reporter.

Indeed, the three leading candidates for president - John McCain, Barack Obama
and Hillary Clinton - all support a comprehensive approach that provides a path
to legalization. Although McCain now says that his first priority would be to
secure the border, he hasn't ruled out legalization once the border is under
control. Nor has McCain flirted with the sort of nativist arguments that other
Republicans find so hard to resist, about how immigrants are destroying the
national identity and changing the country's landscape for the worse.

Yet, Calderón noted to another reporter, conservative talk show hosts and others
are ratcheting up their anti-immigrant rhetoric and creating a hostile
environment for all Mexicans in the United States. Calderón said this has
produced "an atmosphere full of prejudice, an anti-immigrant atmosphere with
certain themes that are also anti-Mexican, that benefits no one." And, he said,
the worst thing that can happen is that countries mistake neighbors for enemies.

Many Americans commit that error. They're so reluctant to accept any
responsibility for illegal immigration - a self-inflicted wound that they bring
upon themselves by aggressively hiring illegal immigrants - they can't wait to
pin the blame on Mexico and its leaders.

I hear it all the time. It's as if many Americans are waiting around for Mexico
to solve our immigration problem by creating jobs south of the border or
physically restraining those intent on crossing into the United States. If so,
they're going to be waiting a long time. Mexico now takes in about $23 billion
annually in remittances from Mexicans living in the United States. It has no
interest in turning off the golden faucet.

Calderón would probably argue with me about that, just as he did when we were
graduate school classmates in 2000. He believes, as many Mexicans are slowly
realizing, that the country is losing some of its best people and that the
Mexican family - perhaps the country's most beloved institution - is
disintegrating because of massive migration. This week, Calderón told an
audience at Harvard University, his alma mater, that he didn't want to lose more
people to the United States, only to better serve and protect those Mexicans who
are already here.

For me - and, I dare say, for many Mexican-Americans who are loyal to this
country and not the one that had little use for our parents or grandparents -
the immigration debate is an issue of national sovereignty. Calderón accepts
that nations have the right to enforce their laws and control their borders.
But, for him, this is also an issue of human rights - rights that don't vanish
at the U.S.-Mexico border.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 16, 2008 Saturday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 566 words


ARIZONA

Police will ask arrested

people their legal status

Police in Phoenix will soon ask people they arrest whether they are in the
United States legally and will in certain cases report the information to the
federal authorities, Mayor Phil Gordon announced Friday.

People stopped for civil traffic violations like speeding will not be
questioned, nor will crime victims or witnesses, but all of those arrested on
criminal charges will be asked about their immigration status and police may
decide to recommend checking by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Civil rights advocates suggested that people who appeared to be Latino or spoke
with accents would be more likely to be checked than others. Hispanics make up
34 percent of Phoenix, the nation's fifth largest city, with 1.5 million
residents.

At a news conference Friday, Gordon and the four lawyers on a commission that
recommended the changes tried to emphasize that the program would be closely
monitored. Police officers, they said, would not become immigration agents and
would not stop people at random and ask their legal status.

"We are doing what every city in this country should be doing but doesn't,"
Gordon said.

The program departs from a policy that is more than 10 years old that bars
officers from asking people about their legal status in most cases.

VIRGINIA

U.S. official charged with

child pornography, more

A U.S. Foreign Service officer stationed in Brazil and Congo used his status to
pressure female visa applicants for sex, according to federal charges unsealed
Friday.

Gons G. Nachman, 42, of Alexandria, Va., is charged in U.S. District Court with
misuse of his diplomatic passport, making false statements and possessing child
pornography.

Nachman was ordered jailed pending a detention hearing scheduled for Tuesday.

According to the affidavit, Nachman made a habit of pressuring and pursuing
sexual relationships with attractive female visa applicants while stationed in
Rio de Janeiro.

The affidavit also says that Nachman helped a woman from the Congo file a false
refugee application with the Brazilian government so she could work for Nachman
while he was stationed in Rio de Janeiro.

While she was employed by him, the woman said Nachman made her film and
photograph his sexual encounters with women, some as young as 15, in late 2006
and early 2007.

NEW YORK

Privacy laws holding up

case of slain therapist

The investigation into the ferocious stabbing of a Manhattan psychologist has
been slowed because detectives are barred by privacy laws from reviewing the
slain therapist's patient records without a court order, police said Friday.

The killer slashed 56-year-old Kathryn Faughey 15 times with a meat cleaver and
a 9-inch knife in her office Tuesday evening.

Detectives were trying to determine whether the killer was a patient of Faughey
or Dr. Kent Shinbach, who came to Faughey's rescue and was badly injured. But
police have been unable to access medical records because of state and federal
privacy laws. Authorities have to prove in court that they have a legitimate
cause to obtain the patient information.

As the district attorney's office worked with police to get patient information,
investigators searched for evidence, removing nine boxes from Faughey's office,
scrutinizing security cameras footage and following up on tips made to a hot
line.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 3, 2008 Monday

Salinas lawmaker attacked over Gestapo remark

BYLINE: By Kurtis Alexander Santa Cruz Sentinel

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Special Reports; Central Coast; Communities; Politics

LENGTH: 410 words


Rep. Sam Farr was put on the defensive last week after conservative talk-show
hosts and bloggers condemned a comparison the central coast lawmaker drew
between U.S. immigration agents and Nazi Germany's secret police, the Gestapo.

The Salinas Democrat's comments circulated on the Web and CNN's Lou Dobbs
publicly challenged Farr to come on the air and withdraw his "insulting
statement."

But Farr's spokesman, Tom Mentzer, said "the comment was taken out of context."

Farr made the remark Tuesday when Immigration and Customs Enforcement Chief
Julie Meyers was addressing concerns about federal raids of illegal immigrants
before the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, which Farr sits
on.

"What happens is the public image of you becomes one of not this compassionate
law enforcement agency but essentially a Gestapo-type agency that is knocking
down doors," Farr said, according to preliminary transcripts of the hearing.

Meyers interrupted Farr and said: "We are not the Gestapo."

Rep. Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, also chimed in, "These are proud,
hard-working people."

Replied Farr: "I appreciate that, and I know that. I'm just telling you that
there is a very ill will public opinion in the counties I represent about ICE."

Santa Cruz County has been one of the targets of ICE's "Return to Sender"
operation, a crackdown that has picked up more than 100 illegal immigrants with
criminal warrants during the past two years.

A series of arrests in Santa Cruz and Watsonville in September 2006 prompted a
backlash among sympathetic community members.

"There are better ways to enforce the (immigration) issue," said Watsonville
City Councilman Oscar Rios. "What ICE is doing is taking the wrong people,
splitting families, leaving children, taking hard-working people."

Last week's congressional hearing came amid an intense national debate over what
to do about the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the United
States.

Farr's comments were made as he and others challenged ICE for not making the
deportation of undocumented immigrants in prisons a top priority.

His press office dismissed Tuesday's showdown and its reverberations as
political theater.

"He's been accused of open borders, but that's not the case," Mentzer said.

Farr, like many in Congress, is a supporter of securing borders and of a path to
legalization for undocumented residents.

Contact Kurtis Alexander at (831) 706-3267 or kalexander@santacruzsentinel.com .

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 10, 2008 Monday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 341 words


NEW YORK

Hate groups targeting

Latinos, watchdog says

Anti-immigrant sentiment is fueling nationwide increases in the number of hate
groups and the number of hate crimes targeting Latinos, a watchdog group said
today.

The Southern Poverty Law Center, in a report titled "The Year in Hate," said it
counted 888 hate groups in its latest tally, up from 844 in 2006 and 602 in
2000.

The most prominent of the organizations added to the list, the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, rejected the "hate group" label, and
questioned the law center's motives. FAIR said the center was using smear
tactics to boost donations and stifle legitimate debate on immigration.

The law center's report contends there is a link between anti-immigrant activism
and the rise in hate crimes against Latinos in recent years. According to FBI
statistics, 819 people were victimized by anti-Latino hate crimes in 2006,
compared with 595 in 2003.

Southern Baptist leaders

urge action on warming

In a major shift, a group of Southern Baptist leaders said their denomination
has been "too timid" on environmental issues and has a biblical duty to stop
global warming.

The declaration, signed by the president of the Southern Baptist Convention,
among others, and released today, shows a growing urgency about climate change
even within groups that once dismissed claims of an overheating planet as a
liberal ruse. The conservative denomination has 16.3 million members and is the
largest Protestant group in the United States.

The Southern Baptist leaders said current evidence of global warming is
"substantial," and the threat is too grave to wait for perfect knowledge about
whether, or how much, people contribute to the trend.

PENNSYLVANIA

Row house blaze kills

four children, injures one

A fire tore through a Bethlehem row house Sunday, killing four children and
severely burning at least one other person, authorities said.

A neighbor said a teenager jumped from a second-story window to escape the
blaze.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2008 Friday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 555 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

Destroyed tapes create

legal mess for the CIA

When officers from the Central Intelligence Agency destroyed hundreds of hours
of videotapes documenting harsh interrogations in 2005, they may have believed
they were freeing the government and themselves from potentially serious legal
trouble.

But nearly four months after the disclosure that the tapes were destroyed, the
list of legal entanglements for the CIA, the Defense Department and other
agencies is growing longer. In addition to criminal and congressional
investigations of the tapes' destruction, the government is fighting off
challenges in several major terrorism cases and a raft of prisoners' legal
claims that it may have destroyed evidence.

In a suit brought by Hani Abdullah, a Yemeni prisoner at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, a
federal judge has raised the possibility that, by destroying the tapes, the CIA
violated a court order to preserve all evidence relevant to the prisoner. In at
least twelve other lawsuits, attorneys for prisoners at Guantánamo and elsewhere
have filed legal challenges citing the CIA tapes' destruction, said David Remes,
a Washington attorney representing 16 prisoners.

Attorneys involved in the cases said it still appeared unlikely that a terrorist
suspect could go free as a result of the destruction of the videotapes.

Immigrant prisoners

10 percent of inmates

At least 304,000 immigrant criminals eligible for deportation are behind bars
nationwide, a top federal immigration official said Thursday.

That is the first official estimate of the total number of such convicts in
federal, state and local prisons and jails.

The head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Julie Myers, said the annual
number of deportable immigrant inmates was expected to vary from 300,000 to
455,000, or 10 percent of the overall inmate population, for the next few years.

TEXAS

Woman says TSA made

her remove piercings

A Texas woman who said she was forced to remove a nipple ring with pliers in
order to board an airplane called Thursday for an apology by federal security
agents and a civil rights investigation.

"I wouldn't wish this experience upon anyone," Mandi Hamlin said at a news
conference with attorney Gloria Allred. "My experience with TSA was a nightmare
I had to endure. No one deserves to be treated this way."

Hamlin, 37, said she was trying to board a flight from Lubbock to Dallas on Feb.
24 when she was scanned by a Transportation Security Administration agent after
passing through a larger metal detector without problems.

The female TSA agent used a handheld detector that beeped when it passed in
front of Hamlin's chest, the Dallas-area resident said.

Hamlin said she told the woman she was wearing nipple piercings. The agent then
called over her male colleagues, one of whom said she would have to remove the
jewelry, Hamlin said.

Hamlin said she could not remove them and asked whether she could instead
display her pierced breasts in private to the female agent. But several other
male officers told her she could not board her flight until the jewelry was out,
she said.

She was taken behind a curtain and managed to remove one bar-shaped piercing but
had trouble with the second, a ring, and asked for pliers.

TSA officials said they are investigating the incident.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 8, 2008 Tuesday

San Jose State to hold immigration conference

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; News; Alameda County; Peninsula; San Jose - Valley; Communities;
Breaking

LENGTH: 249 words


San Jose State University will hold a major national conference on immigration
on Thursday and Friday.

The conference, titled "From Strawberries to Software: Immigration to Silicon
Valley," will be held on campus and at the Crowne Plaza Hotel downtown. It will
bring together students, community members and scholars for panel discussions,
including one on U.S. immigration policy with U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose.

"We are convening this conference in San Jose because this region has long been
ground zero for immigration issues," said Tim Hegstrom, dean of the College of
Social Sciences. "From the agricultural era through the tech era, immigrant
labor has powered our economy and provided services we depend on."

AnnaLee Saxenian, dean of the University of California-Berkeley's School of
Information, will give the keynote address at the conference. Her book, "The New
Argonauts: Regional Advantage in a Global Economy," focuses on a new trend:
engineers from China and India using skills honed in Silicon Valley to start
businesses in their home countries.

The conference will have 24 sessions featuring community experts and scholars
from San Jose State, Santa Clara University, Stanford University and other
California State University campuses. They will discuss legal, cultural,
economic, educational, religious and generational aspects of immigration.

For information on costs and registration, visit the conference Web site:
www.sjsu.edu/depts/SocialSciences/socsci_files/Homepg.htm .

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday

Bay Area News in Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; News

LENGTH: 524 words


SAN JOSE

SJSU set to host

immigration forum

San Jose State University will hold a major national conference on immigration
Thursday and Friday.

The conference, titled "From Strawberries to Software: Immigration to Silicon
Valley," will be held on campus and at the Crowne Plaza Hotel downtown. It will
bring together students, community members and scholars for panel discussions,
including one on U.S. immigration policy with U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose.

"We are convening this conference in San Jose because this region has long been
ground zero for immigration issues," said Tim Hegstrom, dean of the College of
Social Sciences. "From the agricultural era through the tech era, immigrant
labor has powered our economy and provided services we depend on."

The conference will have 24 sessions featuring community experts and scholars
from San Jose State, Santa Clara University, Stanford University and other
California State University campuses. They will discuss legal, cultural,
economic, educational, religious and generational aspects of immigration.

For information on costs and registration, visit the conference Web site:
www.sjsu.edu/depts/SocialSciences/socsci_files/Homepg.htm .

- Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

Council OKs new fees

for 'granny units'

Homeowners looking to add "granny units" will soon have to pay up to $5,500 to
the city of San Jose.

By a 9-1 vote, the City Council on Tuesday night approved the new fees, which
will be set aside for the city's parks. Councilman Pete Constant voted no,
saying the fees were too high.

Many homeowners turn to secondary units as a way to care for aging or disabled
relatives, or as a rental property to help pay off a mortgage.

Fees are determined based on the size of the unit. Some community members
believe that the fees will encourage home owners to build granny units without
permits.

- Joshua MolinaMercury News

SOUTH BAY

Court: County can hire

outside lawyers in suit

A state appeals court Tuesday upheld Santa Clara County's right to hire outside
lawyers to help in a long-running public nuisance lawsuit against the
manufacturers of lead paint.

In a 38-page ruling, the San Jose-based 6th District Court of Appeal rejected
the claims of the lead paint industry, which argued the county should be barred
from hiring private attorneys through contingency fee agreements hooked to the
outcome of the case. The ruling overturned a decision last year by Superior
Court Judge Jack Komar, who found the county's agreement with private law firms
violates the law because attorneys hired by the government must be neutral.

The appeals court stressed that the control of the court fight remains with
County Counsel Ann Ravel, who is leading the legal challenge and has hired a
number of top plaintiffs' law firms to aid in the case. Santa Clara County
triggered the lawsuit in 2000, and has since been joined by a host of cities and
counties, including San Francisco, Oakland and Los Angeles.

The lawsuit, which alleges the industry knew of the hazards of lead paint, is
attempting to force paint manufacturers to help pay for the removal of lead
paint in buildings and homes.

- Howard MintzMercury News

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 21, 2008 Monday

Take the stigma out of tuberculosis

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: OPINION; Letters

LENGTH: 865 words


Take the stigma

out of tuberculosis

I agree that Bay Area authorities should spruce public health funding efforts to
counter the tuberculosis bacteria. However, I disagree with the negative tone
that labels and stigmatizes immigrants for draining the system and burdening
local taxpayers. I find this unfair and unethical. The country needs high-tech
workers for fueling the economic engine. We must not forget that research and
development at torpedo pace has been made possible by international talent. We
must approach the issue with a humanistic perspective, realizing that students,
H-1B workers and immigrants from Third World countries are humans who have
contributed to the success of America and hence are entitled to equitable health
care opportunity as residents.

Dimple Gupta
San Jose

'Annie,' 'Wild Bill'

dodged question

I had to laugh while watching the "debate" as Sen. Hillary Clinton and Sen.
Barack Obama tried their best to look and act like Annie Oakley and Wild Bill
Hickok on the gun issue. I believe the truth is that both would be appointing
liberal, activist judges to the Supreme Court as fast as they could get them
confirmed. Once on the court, their appointees could swing the court to the left
and put the court in a position to reverse all prior rulings on the Second
Amendment. They could rule that the right to bear arms applies to militias only.
Finally, rather than having been asked too many, and too hard questions, I wish
they had been made to answer the gun question more fully and more truthfully.

Bob Hayes
San Jose

Keep state parks

open to the people

In her excellent article on Henry Coe State Park (Page 1A, April 19) and its
recovery from last September's Lick fire, Amber Dance notes that the burned
areas of the park are again open to the public. But maybe not for long: On Jan.
10, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger proposed closing 48 state parks, including Coe.
The need to balance the budget, repeatedly invoked by the governor, cannot
justify closing state parks, which would set a disastrous precedent and have
essentially zero effect on the budget deficit. We need to make it clear to the
governor and our legislators that we will not tolerate the closure of our parks.

John Wilkinson
San Jose

Didn't killer impose

the death penalty?

Christiane Cook (Letters, April 19) writes that the death penalty is a barbaric
practice that has no place in a modern state. What about the death penalty
imposed by murderers on their victims, made far more barbaric as they are not
given a shot in the arm to avoid the pain and terror of their untimely, violent
death? The only thing we have in this life is life itself, the rest is just
stuff. When someone intentionally takes a life, the only just punishment is to
take the perpetrator's life. While prison may not be an ideal environment, the
murderer is still breathing, can dream, eat, read, communicate, visit with
family, etc., all pleasures denied the victim. To address concerns over false
convictions, I suggest a murderer caught in the act or convicted by DNA or
irrefutable evidence be allowed one appeal, and if upheld should be put to death
immediately. For those convicted on circumstantial evidence, they should receive
life without parole, which would allow for their release if ever found innocent.

Sue Robertson
San Jose

Education is key

to advancement

John Fensterwald's article (Opinion, April 20) on "Doc" Lehane was excellent. A
decade ago, Gerald Hsu pledged $1 million to two second-grade classes in Alum
Rock. His promise was to pick up the tab for college if they graduated from high
school, and it was Doc's responsibility to follow the students to make sure they
would graduate. The article is important because it addresses one purpose of
education that is often missed in the debate on test scores and graduation
exams. In this country, social class is not fixed, and an individual can move
from the welfare class to the upper middle class by obtaining an education.

Bob Miller
Campbell

Outsiders, power,

party and China

It seems that the protesters against a CNN correspondent critical of the Chinese
government are so eager and fatuous about using the charged race card that,
suddenly and quite disingenuously, they have accused critics of China of being
"racist." As a matter of fact, it is the demonstrators themselves who are
racially supercharged in their comments. What in the world do they mean by the
Chinese "race"? This is an old cynical shell game. Sometimes "Asian" is a race
to them. Sometimes "Chinese." What about the Tibetans? The Manchus? The
Mongolians? The Uighurs? The Yi? The Mosuo of China? They are part of political
China, not happily, but they are surely not considered part of the Chinese
"race" by the Han majority. It is the Han people who consider themselves the
"Chinese race" and everyone else in China is, well, an outsider. That is the
reason for special autonomous zones. China's long march has only taken the
Communist Party in a large circle, always ending up right back where they began
in purging enemies. All political power comes from the barrel of a gun, Mao
pronounced. And he and his followers made sure this was and is still true in
China.

Larry Engelmann
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 25, 2008 Friday

More than a thousand naturalized at Campbell's Heritage Theatre

BYLINE: By Chris Vongsarath Campbell Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 206 words


Hundreds of people smiled and posed for pictures with family members on the
sidewalk outside the Heritage Theatre in Campbell on Thursday, awaiting a
momentous occasion in their lives.

The 400-plus people the latest of the more than a thousand immigrants that the
U.S. Citizens and Immigration Services naturalizes at the theater each month.

Francesco Battaglia of San Jose was among them.

"I feel different today," said Battaglia, who came to the United States from
Italy more than 40 years ago. "Today, I feel American."

In all, 1,400 immigrants likely felt a little more American that day. In three
separate ceremonies, each with a group of about 470 people representing 58
countries, the immigrants gathered in the theater where they learned about their
new rights and liberties as U.S. citizens.

Like many immigrants, Battaglia was joined by family members to celebrate him
officially becoming a U.S. citizen, a process that took a little more than a
year.

Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the immigration service, said the time it takes
a person to go through the filing process can take anywhere from a year to eight
years, depending on their relationship status with a U.S. citizen family member
and/or involvement with the U.S. military.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday

Alarms & Diversions: 'The Visitor' shines light on immigrants' American hell

BYLINE: By Bruce Newman Mercury News

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Columnists; Reviews; Film; Entertainment

LENGTH: 1021 words


Among the justifications for what has come to be known as the Bush doctrine of
"pre-emption" - disposing of foreign regimes we suspect might possibly someday
pose a threat to us - was Saddam Hussein's refusal to allow United Nations
weapons inspectors unfettered access to his vast stockpiles of, you know, WMD.
This is the policy that has worked so well in reducing the threat of terror in
Iraq.

In the five years since we began liberating Iraqis from the oppression of living
in their own homes (the war is believed to have created more than 2 million
refugees), or, in many cases, from living at all (as many as 90,000 Iraqi
civilians have died), the United States' policy of pre-emption has taken hold in
a country that probably would surprise most Americans: the United States.

The number of immigrants who are living in this country - either openly awaiting
legal recognition, or hiding in the perpetual shadow world of the undocumented -
are imprecise. But by any reckoning, the estimates are staggering. In "The
Visitor," a new movie about the friendship between two strangers - one from
Syria, one from Connecticut - that teeming tide is only hinted at obliquely. The
film opened here Friday.

"The Visitor" is a remarkable example of what films can be, but too rarely are.
Cutting through the fog of numbers and the color-coded haze of our terror threat
levels, the picture summons its audience to a broader understanding of the
immigrant surge through the power of the particular. In its own small way, the
movie seeks to lift us out of the defensive crouch we have found ourselves in
since Sept. 11, 2001.

When it became apparent after 9/11 that many of the hijackers were here on
invalid or expired visas, you didn't have to be some musket-toting urban militia
crazy to think that the easiest way to remove the threat of having unknowable
strangers living among us was to round them up and send them back where they
came from.

In the film, it's a Syrian street musician named Tarek (Haaz Sleiman) who is
arrested in New York, and despite his innocence of the petty crime with which
he's charged, he is turned over to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).
Tarek winds up in a Queens detention center, one of the privatized jails where
the U.S. government holds more than 280,000 asylum-seekers, over-stayers and
border-crossers every year, according to the Detention Watch Network.

At an average cost of $95 for each day a detainee remains in custody, the Bush
administration has made for-profit prisons one of the nation's most
recession-proof industries. Last year, the publicly-traded Corrections
Corporation of America - from which the Department of Homeland Security rents
beds to detain immigrants like Tarek - reported a 23.3 percent increase in
annual earnings.

This robust rise in profitability occurred despite the company's infamous
stewardship of the T. Don Hutto Family Residential Facility in Texas, where
children are locked up with their parents. At the Department of Homeland
Security, they believe in family values, and try to keep the kids in adjoining
cells whenever possible.

Tony Snow, who was the White House press secretary when this Norman Rockwell
tableau was revealed last year, said that finding facilities for imprisoned
immigrant families was difficult. "You have to do the best with what you've
got," Snow said, sounding depressingly Rumsfeldian.

Then, in case anyone missed the connection between the immigration crackdown and
the Iraq war that has propelled it, the administration canceled a tour of the
Hutto facility by a U.N. inspector, sent there to see if the children's human
rights were being violated. Apparently we are all about protecting the rights of
U.N. inspectors, unless the inspecting they want to do is right under our noses.

In fact, being in violation of immigration laws isn't a crime, it's a civil
violation. But no one who has seen immigration hearings in Bay Area courtrooms -
and 25 percent of the country's unauthorized immigrant population lives in
California - would mistake the shackled detainees for anything but criminals.
And this has been a bipartisan fiasco: Some of the most restrictive legislation
was put forth during the Clinton administration in 1996.

"The immigration policy has changed drastically in the last 10 years," says Tom
McCarthy, writer-director of "The Visitor." "Some of these people came here 15
or 20 years ago, when immigration laws were much more lax, and don't know
they've been walking around with bull's-eyes on them."

McCarthy told me he wasn't trying to demonize either the government or the
current enforcement system. "Immigration is a tricky, tricky thing," he says. "I
think it's more a question of, 'Can we do it better than these detention
centers? Is there a more humane way of doing this?' "

According to the film's "social action campaign," an estimated 85 percent of the
immigrants ensnared by ICE roundups do not have lawyers. Many are deported
without ever having legal representation.

"This isn't about immigration, this is about human rights violations," says
Banafsheh Akhlaghi, the Iranian-born president of the National Legal Sanctuary
for Community Advancement, a San Francisco-based group. "And it's not being
discussed because we don't have a notion in this country that we are violators
of human rights. It's the antithesis of what we know ourselves to be."

There is a scene in "The Visitor" in which Tarek's girlfriend, also
undocumented, shows his mother the view of Manhattan from the Staten Island
ferry. First she points to the spot where the Twin Towers used to stand, then to
the Statue of Liberty, and finally to Ellis Island. In one moment, it takes in
the entire sweep of the American immigrant story.

"If we are a country that has a lady standing in the harbor, symbolizing the
world's weak and being the protector of those people," says Akhlaghi, "then we
need to be that. Life is going to keep happening, but who are we going to be, as
Americans, in the face of it?"

Alarms & Diversions appears occasionally in Sunday LifeStyle. Contact Bruce
Newman at bnewman@mercurynews.com or at (408) 920-5004.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday

California braces for wave of new voters

BYLINE: By Mary Anne Ostrom Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 816 words


California's burgeoning population of immigrants could bring a huge wave of
voters, especially as their U.S.-born children reach voting age, a study
released today found.

Under the most aggressive prediction, more than a quarter of the state's voters
in 2012 would be an immigrant or have at least one parent who is, the study
says. This scenario, however, is likely to occur more gradually than predicted:
It depends on how many eligible residents will or can be naturalized, whether
immigrant-citizens and their children will register and then whether they will
cast ballots.

Even so, the coming wave has huge political and social implications if
politicians and philanthropic organizations engage these groups and encourage
them to naturalize and vote, the report's authors and funders conclude. The
study was funded by members of the non-partisan Grantmakers Concerned with
Immigrants and Refugees, an umbrella group that includes the Silicon Valley
Community Foundation.

"The civic potential of immigration in California is rarely discussed,"
especially on the local and state legislative district level, said the report's
author Rob Paral. And on the statewide level, it's staggering: "If you
naturalize these 2.3 million people who are eligible you would grow the adult
citizen population by 10 percent and dramatically expand your electorate."

Santa Clara County ranks third, behind Los Angeles and Orange counties, in terms
of the raw number of immigrant voters, and their children, who could potentially
be on the rolls by 2012, a presidential election year. Based on Census Bureau
and federal immigration data, the county has a maximum potential for 539,908
voters by 2012.

But immigration rules almost certainly will impact the growth.

Because there are quotas that limit the number of immigrants from individual
countries, and because in Santa Clara County, for example, there is such a long
backlog of people from India and China who have applied for a green card, some
immigrants from those countries may be unable to complete the naturalization
process by 2012, even if they have already started it.

The study also estimated the number of children of immigrants, who they suggest
are more familiar with the immigrant experience than other native-born voters.

They found nearly three in four Latinos who will be 18 by 2012 will have an
immigrant parent, rising to a dramatic nine-in-ten for Asians in that category.

The political implications almost certainly will be debated. While
immigrant-rights advocates welcomed the study as evidence that federal
immigration reform and driver's licenses for illegal immigrants, for example,
might find new supporters, others predicted the impact of these potential voters
will be more gradual.

Studies and exit polling show that lack of language skills, affluence and
understanding of the voting process tend to depress voter registration and
turnout among ethnic groups and younger voters. Participation rates generally
are increasing but still lag behind native-born, non-Latino white adults.
However, other studies indicate that naturalized Latinos have higher
registration percentages than native-born Latinos.

"There needs to be an investment from civic organizations, political parties,
unions to educate and mobilize the voting eligible electorate," said Louis
DeSipio, a professor of political science and Chicano studies at the University
of California-Irvine. "Whether that impact of immigrants begins in 2012, 2016 or
2020, it will be felt eventually."

Even in California, where Latinos generally support Democrats, Republicans see
potential, too.

The study found, on average, in Republican-held state Senate and Assembly
districts, the potential immigrant-minded voters could make up as much as 20
percent of the electorate.

"It shows a number of seats with high immigrant populations are already held by
Republican legislators. And a lot of these immigrants are Asian, and that
demographic is certainly more supportive than Latinos," are of Republicans, said
GOP legislative strategist Kevin Spillane.

"The key word is potential, not real," Spillane said. "It's not all bad news for
Republicans."

Assemblyman Jim Beall, D-San Jose, said he was not surprised that by 2012 one in
three of his district's electorate could be immigrant voters and their children.
In Assemblyman Joe Coto's district, which covers East San Jose, the maximum
potential could be one half.

"We've followed the transition of Silicon Valley," Beall said, "but this is news
in many other parts of the state that you have to pay attention to the issues of
immigrants."

And, he added, Democrats cannot take those votes for granted, especially as
decline-to-state voters rise in number, including among ethnic voters.

"Many are independent-minded voters and are not committed to one party or
another," he said.

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (CLICK TO ENLARGE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 5, 2008 Monday

Hundreds become U.S. citizens at Campbell ceremony

BYLINE: By Chris Vongsarath Campbell Reporter

SECTION: LOCAL; News; San Jose - Valley; Communities

LENGTH: 390 words


The sidewalk on Campbell Avenue was lined with hundreds of people from
throughout Santa Clara County on April 24. Eager smiles all around, people were
posing for pictures and chatting with family members as hundreds of them waited
to finally be called U.S. citizens.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services naturalizes more than a thousand
immigrants every month at the Heritage Theatre in Campbell, but for the 400-plus
standing in the sun that day, it marked a momentous occasion in their lives.

"I feel different today," said Francesco Battaglia of San Jose, who came to the
United States via Italy more than 40 years ago. "Today, I feel American."

In three separate ceremonies, 1,400 immigrants representing 58 countries
gathered in the theater, where they learned about their new rights and liberties
as U.S. citizens. They were treated to a message from President George W. Bush
before officially being sworn in and receiving their certificates of
citizenship.

Like many immigrants, Battaglia, 72, was joined by family members to celebrate
him officially becoming a U.S. citizen, a process that took a little more than a
year. But in retrospect, the road took much longer than that.

"I kept saying, 'Tomorrow, tomorrow I'll do it,' but I never did," Battaglia
said.

Yen Liu of San Jose, 38, came to the United States from Taiwan after she married
her husband six years ago. It took her five years to go through the filing
process, she said.

"Yesterday, I was just a resident. Today, I can vote and I have rights," Liu
said.

Immigration services spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said it takes people anywhere
from a year to eight years to go through the filing process, depending on their
relationship status with a U.S. citizen who is a family member and/or their
involvement in the U.S. military.

After gaining citizenship, people usually immediately petition to get other
family members going through the process, Rummery said.

"Most people either look forward to being able to vote, but also people want to
travel with the strength of the U.S. government with them," Rummery said.

Rummery's agency used to be part of Immigration and Naturalization Services but
is now one of three U.S. immigration agencies in conjunction with the Department
of Homeland Security.

For more information on U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, visit
www.uscis.gov .

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 10, 2008 Saturday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL; News; Politics

LENGTH: 443 words


FLORIDA 83 arrested in probe of

marriages for citizenship A federal sting of four companies accused of arranging
fraudulent marriages for U.S. citizenships, complete with wedding photos of
brides in gowns and elaborate fake cakes, has netted more than 80 arrests,
authorities said Friday.

Immigrants, Americans and company officials were among the 83 arrested. The
immigrants paid as much as $10,000, while the U.S. citizens were offered up to
$2,500, said U.S. Attorney Robert O'Neill.

The couples were coached on how to pass immigration checks with fake answers,
even though in some cases they didn't speak the same language as their purported
spouse, officials said. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services officials who
review each citizenship-conferring marriage to ensure legitimacy tipped off
federal agents in many cases.

Those arrested were from Orlando, Jacksonville, Tampa, Sarasota, Cocoa Beach and
Fort Myers. The operators were charged with establishing a commercial enterprise
to evade immigration laws, punishable by up to five years in jail.

WASHINGTON D.C. Human-only cremation

sites sought for troops The Pentagon is recommending changes in the handling of
service members' remains, after it was revealed that crematoriums contracted by
the military are used for both human and animal cremations.

A military official said there have been no instances or charges that human and
pet remains were mixed. But officials are now recommending that service members'
remains be incinerated at a facility that is dedicated entirely to humans.

Defense Secretary Robert Gates believes that it is "insensitive and entirely
inappropriate for the dignified treatment of our fallen," said Pentagon press
secretary Geoff Morrell.

NEW YORK Pastors recruited to test

IRS ban on preaching Conservative legal advocates are recruiting pastors
nationwide to defy an IRS ban on preaching about politicians, in a challenge
they hope will abolish the restriction.

The Alliance Defense Fund, based in Scottsdale, Ariz., will ask the clergy to
deliver a sermon about specific candidates Sept. 28. If the action triggers an
IRS investigation, the legal group will sue to overturn the federal rules, which
were enacted in 1954.

Under the IRS code, churches can distribute voter guides, run voter registration
drives, hold forums on public policy and invite politicians to speak at their
congregations.

However, they cannot endorse a candidate, and their political activity cannot be
biased for or against a candidate, directly or indirectly.

The Alliance Defense Fund said Friday that the regulations amount to an
unconstitutional limit on free speech.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday

San Mateo festival celebrates immigrant cultures

BYLINE: By Michael Manekin Bay Area News Group

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; Peninsula; Special Reports; News; Local;
Business; Columnists; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 341 words


The cultures and contributions of the county's many ethnic groups take center
stage today as the San Mateo County History Museum celebrates its annual
Immigrants Day Festival.

People will gather in front of the county's historic courthouse building in
Redwood City to sample the sights, sounds and tastes of the county's rich
cultural heritage, said Mitch Postel, president of the San Mateo County
Historical Association.

"Ever since the Gold Rush days, the Peninsula has attracted people from all over
the world - Irish, Germans, Australians, Chinese," Postel said. "Today, if
you're talking about new immigrants, there are a lot of Latin people, Pacific
Islanders, Asians."

The free event features folk song and dance, including Irish step dance, Mexican
Aztec dancing, Chinese lion dance, Japanese taiko drumming, Portuguese fado
music, Italian opera and Philippine folk dancing.

All those sights and sounds will be accompanied by a menu of edible morsels from
around the world.

The Immigrants Day Festival began three years ago as a way for the museum to
inaugurate a permanent exhibit to honor the county's diversity, titled "Land of
Opportunity: The Immigrant Experience in San Mateo County."

The exhibit, which tells the stories of people who came from around the world to
make their homes on the San Francisco Peninsula, will introduce a new
interactive feature today. A computer station will allow museum visitors to tell
their family's immigration stories and to view the stories of others.

That kind of cultural exchange is what the Immigrants Day Festival is all about,
said Isabel Jimenez, whose Aztec dance group Casa de la Cultura Quetzalcoatl is
scheduled to perform.

"This event presents us an opportunity to learn from each other," she said, "and
an opportunity to get to know each other here in our community."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Immigrants Day Festival runs from noon to 4 p.m. at the San Mateo County
History Museum, 2200 Broadway, Redwood City. Admission to the event and the
museum is free. Food-tasting cards will be sold for $5.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday

Parents, share cost of educating kids

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: LETTERS; Opinion

LENGTH: 870 words


Parents, share cost

of educating kids

The cost of K-12 education in California, according to the Mercury News, is
about $42.5 billion, the largest cost item of the state. This is about $7,900
per student. The governor talks about across-the-board cuts. I think the people
who benefit from the free education of their children should share in the cost.
Why not have the parents of these students pay a small tuition? So why not
charge the parents a small fee of, say, 15 percent of the total cost per
student? This would amount to $1,200 per year or $100 per month. This would
reduce the cost of education by 15 percent or about $6.4 billion, a significant
part of the current budget deficit.

Ronald Fischer
San Jose

Stop immigration,

protect way of life

Water rationing is just around the corner, and gas rationing is on the horizon.
Jails, schools and roads are overcrowded. Medical care is an unaffordable
luxury. With all these bad things happening, the country still imports massive
numbers of immigrants. More immigration than all the other countries of the
world combined. No amount of conservation will do any good as long as this
continues. Immigration accounts for 82 percent of our population growth and must
be drastically reduced before America is no longer a great place to live.

Rick Nowack
San Jose

Pat Waite has

skills to lead S.J.

San Jose is a complex city with a population of 1 million. Ideally, a government
official will possess a track record of dealing with complex requirements,
working with others to arrive at very creative solutions, acquiring funding,
implementing with attention to detail and tuning based on key performance
indicators. An official will have no obstacles in his/her personal life:
financial independence, so not tempted by lobbyists with deep pockets; no side
businesses, so one can immerse him or herself in the task; stable home life. Pat
Waite is the only candidate with these qualities. Slogans and aspirations will
not get San Jose where it needs to go. Let us choose the candidate with the
appropriate skill set.

Ken Keller
San Jose

Power outage

wasn't on purpose

My letter (Letters, May 17) was in error. The Los Altos School District had
discussed power-saving ideas as a means to lower expenses, but last Thursday the
unavailability of electrical power that I wrote about was due to an ordinary
circuit breaker problem, and not the implementation of a decision or policy. I
apologize for writing this before I had all the facts. The teachers in our
district are doing an outstanding job, consistently performing at the top of our
state, and should be compensated accordingly.

Tierney Smith
Los Altos Hills

Comment showed

own intolerance

"We're going to kick the right wing's butt out of our state once and for all,"
was the quote from Geoff Kors, executive director of Equality California,
following the state Supreme Court's decision on gay marriage (Page 1A, May 16).
Imagine the outrage for a similar statement, only reversed. No need for Kors to
apologize or to resign, because we truly do believe in free speech, no matter
how ignorant it is. I'm amazed at how the people we are asked to be more
tolerant of are the most intolerant among us.

Matthew Robles
San Jose

Reaction to photo

of kiss shocking

I can't describe to you the revolting feeling I got when I read the letter
complaining about the photo (Letters, May 16) of two men kissing each other.
That photo simply depicted consenting adults expressing affection. The writer
even had the arrogance to state that he didn't want "my newspaper" to "cater" to
the gay lifestyle. Well, sorry, but it's my newspaper, too, and I have no
problem seeing a photo of a couple in love exchanging a peck on the lips. Last
week signaled a historic and long-awaited victory in the pursuit of equality for
all citizens. Funny, although some people prefer to restrict the rights of gays
to second-class citizenship, I never hear them talk about reducing the tax bill
of gay citizens because they receive fewer benefits for their tax dollars. By
the way, in that same section of Friday's paper were photos of a shivering
Burmese boy (page 10A) collecting rainwater in the midst of his
cyclone-devastated village, and of an 11-year-old Chinese earthquake survivor
(page 12A) who had both arms amputated because he did not receive medical care
in time to save them. Yet the letter writer was incensed by the photo of two men
kissing?

M.M. Cassidy
Sunnyvale

Why target only

same-sex couples?

As the religious and political right in this state dust off their insidious
hate-filled petitions in an effort to deny basic human dignity and rights to
same-sex couples, I wonder why they would stop there? As long as they are asking
voters to create a vast class of second-class citizens, why not return to past
times when other groups were marginalized? They could take the right to vote
from women and people of color, re-establish the law that made mixed-race
marriages illegal, and why not return to husbands their previous legal right to
beat their wives with a stick, so long as the stick was no bigger in diameter
than their thumb? If we are hellbent (no pun intended) on returning to the stone
ages, why do it one group at a time?

Barry Goldman-Hall
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday

Bush signs bill to provide troops with tax rebates

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 821 words


President Bush on Tuesday signed a bill giving tax rebates to tens of thousands
of U.S. troops overseas who were denied the checks after Congress tried to make
sure that illegal immigrants didn't get any of the money.

"The president supports tax relief for our men and women serving in harm's way,"
Trey Bohn, a White House spokesman, told the Mercury News.

But hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants and H-1B work visa holders in
Silicon Valley and elsewhere complain that the bill - HR 6081, the Heroes
Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008, which provides various forms of
tax relief for military families - does nothing for them. The immigrants and
work visa holders note that they're ineligible for the economic-stimulus checks
simply because their spouses don't have Social Security numbers - through no
fault of their own.

Lobbyists for pro-immigration groups said Tuesday they still haven't given up on
getting the immigrants their checks and plan to raise the issue at a House
oversight hearing on the rebate checks on Thursday. The hearing will be chaired
by Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., chairman of the House Ways and Means Oversight
Subcommittee, and Rep. Michael McNulty, D-N.Y., chairman of the Social Security
Subcommittee.

Inadvertent exclusion

When Congress passed an economic-stimulus package in early February giving
rebates to most taxpayers, it tried to make sure undocumented immigrants didn't
get any of the money.

To be eligible for the rebates, taxpayers had to provide Social Security
numbers, lawmakers decided. But legislators inadvertently penalized about a
million legal immigrants - and U.S. service members stationed overseas - whose
foreign spouses are ineligible for Social Security cards. Hundreds of thousands
of H-1B work visa holders are also not getting checks for the same reason.

The scope of the problem was first detailed in a Mercury News article last month
as the government began electronically depositing and sending out rebate checks.

"The issue is not just about money," said Parveen Kumar of Sunnyvale, an H-1B
visa holder from India who works as an engineer at Intelliswift Software in
Fremont. "We don't want to be treated like illegals - like second-class
taxpayers. We came to this country through the front door, the right way."

His wife has an H-4 "dependency visa" that doesn't allow her to work. So she is
not eligible for a Social Security card.

At the urging of anti-illegal-immigration groups such as the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, the Senate Finance Committee in early February
inserted language into the rebate bill aimed at illegal immigrants who don't
have Social Security numbers and instead routinely use "tax identification
numbers."

If a married couple files a joint tax return and one spouse doesn't have a
Social Security number, both spouses are ineligible for a rebate, which can be
as high as $1,200 for a couple. They also lose an additional $300 rebate for
each child.

More than 288,000 troops are stationed overseas, according to the Pentagon - not
counting those in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many live in countries such as Korea,
Japan and Germany where extended stays often result in marriages to locals. In
addition, there are about a million non-citizen immigrants whose spouses are
overseas and waiting for visas.

The military people and legal immigrants had the option of filing separate
returns for the 2007 tax year, but in most cases that would cause their tax bill
to increase more than the amount of rebates.

In any case, the IRS says taxpayers can't amend their filing status after April
15.

"It's too late to switch back," said Jesse Weller, an Internal Revenue Service
spokesman. "Once you file a joint return, you can't choose to file a separate
return for that year."

Effort continues Paul Donnelly, a longtime pro-immigration advocate in
Washington, D.C, said he hopes to persuade Congress to make a "technical fix"
that would allow legal immigrants to get their rebates - perhaps in the form of
a tax credit next year.

"We haven't given up," said Bruce Morrison, a former Connecticut congressman and
pro-immigration lobbyist who once chaired the House Immigration Subcommittee.
"We'll keep working on the principle that people shouldn't be punished for
obeying the law."

Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
said his group would have to see the details of any such bill before deciding
whether to support it. Besides, he said, "the lack of a benefit is not the same
as a punishment."

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, said she'd certainly vote to give the legal
immigrants their rebates. But she said she wasn't holding out much hope in a
Congress that is avoiding discussion of most things related to immigration.

"They messed it up, and I don't think it was fair," she said. "But that doesn't
mean it's going to get done."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at (408) 920-5552 or kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday

Troops to get tax rebates

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 825 words


President Bush on Tuesday signed a bill giving tax rebates to tens of thousands
of U.S. troops overseas who were denied the checks after Congress tried to make
sure that illegal immigrants didn't get any of the money.

"The president supports tax relief for our men and women serving in harm's way,"
Trey Bohn, a White House spokesman, told the Mercury News.

But hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants and H-1B work visa holders in
Silicon Valley and elsewhere complain that the bill - HR 6081, the Heroes
Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008, which provides various forms of
tax relief for military families - does nothing for them. The immigrants and
work visa holders note that they're ineligible for the economic-stimulus checks
simply because their spouses don't have Social Security numbers - through no
fault of their own.

Lobbyists for pro-immigration groups said Tuesday they still haven't given up on
getting the immigrants their checks and plan to raise the issue at a House
oversight hearing on the rebate checks Thursday. The hearing will be chaired by
Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., chairman of the House Ways and Means Oversight
Subcommittee, and Rep. Michael McNulty, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Social
Security Subcommittee.

Inadvertent exclusion

When Congress passed an economic-stimulus package in early February giving
rebates to most taxpayers, it tried to make sure undocumented immigrants didn't
get any of the money.

To be eligible for the rebates, taxpayers had to provide Social Security
numbers, lawmakers decided. But legislators inadvertently penalized about a
million legal immigrants - and U.S. service members stationed overseas - whose
foreign spouses are ineligible for Social Security cards. Hundreds of thousands
of H-1B work visa holders are also not getting checks for the same reason.

The scope of the problem was first detailed in a Mercury News article last month
as the government began electronically depositing and sending out rebate checks.

"The issue is not just about money," said Parveen Kumar of Sunnyvale, an H-1B
visa holder from India who works as an engineer at Intelliswift Software in
Fremont. "We don't want to be treated like illegals - like second-class
taxpayers. We came to this country through the front door, the right way."

His wife has an H-4 "dependency visa" that doesn't allow her to work. So she is
not eligible for a Social Security card.

At the urging of anti-illegal-immigration groups such as the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, the Senate Finance Committee in early February
inserted language into the rebate bill aimed at illegal immigrants who don't
have Social Security numbers and instead routinely use "tax identification
numbers."

If a married couple files a joint tax return and one spouse doesn't have a
Social Security number, both spouses are ineligible for a rebate, which can be
as high as $1,200 for a couple. They also lose an additional $300 rebate for
each child.

More than 288,000 members of the armed forces are stationed overseas, according
to the Pentagon - not counting those in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many live in
countries such as Korea, Japan and Germany where extended stays often result in
marriages to locals. In addition, there are about a million non-citizen
immigrants whose spouses are overseas and waiting for visas.

The military people and legal immigrants had the option of filing separate
returns for the 2007 tax year, but in most cases that would cause their tax bill
to increase more than the amount of rebates.

In any case, the IRS says taxpayers can't amend their filing status after April
15.

"It's too late to switch back," said Jesse Weller, an Internal Revenue Service
spokesman. "Once you file a joint return, you can't choose to file a separate
return for that year."

Effort continues

Paul Donnelly, a longtime pro-immigration advocate in Washington, D.C, said he
hopes to persuade Congress to make a "technical fix" that would allow legal
immigrants to get their rebates - perhaps in the form of a tax credit next year.

"We haven't given up," said Bruce Morrison, a former Connecticut congressman and
pro-immigration lobbyist who once chaired the House Immigration Subcommittee.
"We'll keep working on the principle that people shouldn't be punished for
obeying the law."

Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
said his group would have to see the details of any such bill before deciding
whether to support it. Besides, he said, "the lack of a benefit is not the same
as a punishment."

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, said she'd certainly vote to give the legal
immigrants their rebates. But she said she wasn't holding out much hope in a
Congress that is avoiding discussion of most things related to immigration.

"They messed it up, and I don't think it was fair," she said. "But that doesn't
mean it's going to get done."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at (408) 920-5552 or kmclaughlin @mercurynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday

NEW REBATE RULES

BYLINE: Mercury News reporting

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 119 words


NEW REBATE RULES

President Bush on Tuesday signed the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax
(HEART) Act of 2008.

WHAT THE BILL DOES: Provides various forms of tax relief for military families.
A key provision gives tax rebates to U.S. troops who were denied them because
Congress wanted to make sure that illegal immigrants didn't get the
economic-stimulus payments.

WHAT THE BILL DOESN'T DO: Provide tax rebates to hundreds of thousands of legal
immigrants and H-1B work visa holders with foreign-born spouses who don't
qualify for Social Security cards.

WHERE TO GO FOR QUESTIONS: Click on www.irs.gov . The site explains the rebate
rules and tells you when you should expect your rebate - and how much it will
be.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

San Jose couple lured immigrants, forced them to live in "squalid" garage, work
for little pay, feds allege

BYLINE: By Leslie Griffy Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News

LENGTH: 580 words


Immigrants lured to California with promises of work by a San Jose couple found
themselves forced into squalid living conditions and working long hours in local
restaurants for little or no pay, federal prosecutors allege.

Paula Luna Alvarez and Carlos Contreras Del Carmen face counts of harboring
illegal immigrants, Social Security fraud and international money laundering.

The charges are just the "tip of the iceberg," Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas
O'Connell said during the couple's bail hearing Thursday. The couple, he told
U.S. Magistrate Judge Richard Seeborg, were "directly involved with human
trafficking.

One of their alleged victims said he and others were forced to work 14-hour days
with little pay and made to sleep in the couple's garage, according to La
Opinion, a Spanish-language newspaper.

Family and friends in court and at the couple's home near the Rose Garden
neighborhood declined to comment on the case. However, defense attorney Alfredo
Morales used the presence of about 20 supporters at the hearing to paint a
picture of an entrepreneurial couple with deep roots in the community.

As he requested that Del Carmen's bail be lowered, Morales told the judge, "He
has every reason to stay in this county."

FBI spokesman Joseph Schadler said the investigation is ongoing, and some court
documents are sealed.

O'Connell said Del Carmen's acted as the recruiter for the restaurant workers,
persuading "people in Mexico with false promises to work." He'd then bring them
here to live in "squalid conditions" in Alvarez's garage, the prosecutor said..

The couple, according to court documents, forged Social Security numbers for at
least three illegal immigrants who lived in their home.

Last week, FBI and other law enforcement officials searched two restaurants on
Story Road - El Naranjo in the Tropicana shopping center and El Mezquite
Taqueria. Agents found four other possibly illegal immigrants in the couple's
home, Schadler said.

Both businesses - small store fronts owned by a company in Alvarez's name - were
shuttered Thursday. Business owners near El Naranjo refused to say anything
about their neighbors. But Lam Nguyen, who owns a liquor store next to Mezquite,
said he knew the owner as a man named Ruben, who would stop by at delivery time.
He doubted that the man he knew would force illegal immigrants to essentially
work as slaves.

"He is an honest guy," said Nguyen, adding he'd known him for about 18 years.

Experts say that people are mostly unaware of modern slavery. Government studies
suggest that at least 15,000 people are trafficked into the United States every
year. But Kay Buck, executive director of the Los Angeles-based Coalition to
Abolish Slavery and Trafficking, said she believes the number is much higher.

Often times, Buck said, people who are trafficked are paid less than minium wage
and infrequently. They are lured by promises of money and then kept captive by
threats of violence against them or their families, Buck said.

In every case the Coalition has worked on, Buck said that the trafficker took
the passport and other identification documents from their victims as a way of
holding them hostage.

Seeborg said he was inclined to set Alvarez's bail at a $500,000 secured bond,
but continued her hearing until June 25. He lowered Del Carmen's bail to
$350,000, which friends offered to cover during the hearing.

Reporter Howard Mintz contributed to this story. Contact Leslie Griffy at
lgriffy@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5945.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

Human trafficking case targets S.J. couple

BYLINE: By Leslie Griffy Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; Crime; News;
Local

LENGTH: 583 words


Immigrants lured to California with promises of work by a San Jose couple found
themselves forced into squalid living conditions and toiling long hours in local
restaurants for little or no pay, federal prosecutors allege.

Paula Luna Alvarez and Carlos Contreras Del Carmen face counts of harboring
illegal immigrants, Social Security fraud and international money laundering.

The charges are just the "tip of the iceberg," said Assistant U.S. Attorney
Thomas O'Connell during the couple's bail hearing Thursday. The couple, he told
U.S. Magistrate Judge Richard Seeborg, were "directly involved with human
trafficking."

One of their alleged victims said he and others were forced to work 14-hour days
with little pay and made to sleep in the couple's garage, according to La
Opinion, a Spanish-language newspaper.

Family and friends in court and at the couple's home near the Rose Garden
neighborhood declined to comment on the case. However, defense attorney Alfredo
Morales used the presence of about 20 supporters at the hearing to paint a
picture of an entrepreneurial couple with deep roots in the community.

As he requested that Del Carmen's bail be lowered, Morales told the judge, "He
has every reason to stay in this county."

FBI spokesman Joseph Schadler said the investigation is ongoing, and some court
documents are sealed.

O'Connell said Del Carmen acted as the recruiter for the restaurant workers,
persuading "people in Mexico with false promises to work." He'd then bring them
here to live in "squalid conditions" in Alvarez's garage, the prosecutor said.

The couple, according to court documents, forged Social Security numbers for at
least three illegal immigrants who lived in their home.

Last week, FBI and other law enforcement officials searched two restaurants on
Story Road - El Naranjo in the Tropicana shopping center and El Mezquite
Taqueria. Agents found four other possibly illegal immigrants in the couple's
home, Schadler said.

Both businesses - small store fronts owned by a company in Alvarez's name - were
shuttered Thursday. Business owners near El Naranjo refused to say anything
about their neighbors. But Lam Nguyen, who owns a liquor store next to Mezquite,
said he knew the owner as a man named Ruben, who would stop by at delivery time.
He doubted that the man he knew would force illegal immigrants to essentially
work as slaves.

"He is an honest guy," said Nguyen, adding he'd known him for about 18 years.

Experts say that people are mostly unaware of modern slavery. Government studies
suggest that at least 15,000 people are trafficked into the United States every
year. But Kay Buck, executive director of the Los Angeles-based Coalition to
Abolish Slavery and Trafficking, said she believes the number is much higher.

Often times, Buck said, people who are trafficked are paid less than minium wage
and infrequently. They are lured by promises of money and then kept captive by
threats of violence against them or their families, Buck said.

In every case the coalition has worked on, Buck said that the trafficker took
the passport and other identification documents from their victims as a way of
holding them hostage.

Seeborg said he was inclined to set Alvarez's bail at a $500,000 secured bond,
but continued her hearing until June 25. He lowered Del Carmen's bail to
$350,000, which friends offered to cover during the hearing.

Mercury News Staff Writer Howard Mintz contributed to this report. Contact
Leslie Griffy at lgriffy@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5945.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday

$1.85 million Knight Foundation grant will help 500 Silicon Valley immigrants
become citizens

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 275 words


The John S. and James L. Knight Foundation has given the San Jose-based
Opportunity Fund a $1.85 million grant to launch a new program aimed at helping
500 low-income immigrants in Silicon Valley become citizens.

The Saving for Citizenship program is a "direct response" to last year's 80
percent jump in the cost of citizen application fees - from $330 to $595,
officials of the Miami-based Knight Foundation say.

"Increased fees represent a significant barrier to obtaining citizenship," said
Teresa Castellanos, who coordinates Santa Clara County's Immigrant Relations and
Integration Services programs.

Through the new program, families will complete 12 hours of education about the
American financial system, save $500 toward their citizenship costs and receive
$1,000 in matching funds to cover application expenses, including fees and
fingerprinting costs, for two adults.

Saving for Citizenship will also teach immigrants how to navigate the U.S.
financial system; train them in budgeting, investing and analyzing loan
products; and provide assistance with the citizenship application process.

"Low-wage, immigrant workers are a vital part of the San Jose community's
infrastructure - as child-care providers, service workers and more - yet they
often fall outside of the civic and financial mainstream, making it harder for
them to participate fully in society and build a better life for their
families," said Eric Weaver, CEO of the Opportunity Fund, formerly called
Lenders for Community Development.

Santa Clara County residents interested in applying to the program should
contact Angelita Hernandez at ida@opportunityfund.org or (408) 516-4699.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday

Trade deals' effect on U.S. immigration a problem for McCain

BYLINE: By Ted Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 606 words


This week John McCain is visiting Mexico and Colombia to burnish his foreign
policy credentials by meeting with top Bush administration allies, Presidents
Alvaro Uribe of Colombia and Felipe Caldersn of Mexico.

He is extolling free trade pacts and his commitment to fighting drug
traffickers, but when the topic of immigration arises - as it inevitably will in
Mexico - McCain's Straight Talk Express will hit a dangerous fork in the road.

He wants to project a compassionate and friendly image to both his Mexican hosts
and Latino voters in swing states who will be voting in unprecedented numbers
this fall. On the other hand, he must telegraph his eagerness to "secure" the
border and crack down on immigrant "lawbreakers" to rally the anti-immigrant
base of his own party.

This won't be easy. But an even more fundamental fault line runs through
McCain's position and right across party lines: The very type of free trade
pacts McCain is advocating are linked at their roots to the economic forces that
accelerate undocumented immigration to the point of breaking our immigration
system.

The North American Free Trade Agreement, the modern model for U.S. trade policy,
is the prime example.

During the fierce 1993 fight over its adoption, treaty promoters assured the
U.S. and Mexican publics that expanded trade would slow immigration by
increasing economic opportunity in Mexico. Sadly, 14 years of NAFTA have shown
the opposite: Unauthorized migration from Mexico has doubled.

Most of the estimated 12 million immigrants living and working without papers in
the United States today are Mexican. Economic displacement and a bleak
opportunity landscape in Mexico compel approximately half a million more souls
to move to the United States every year.

McCain and other NAFTA boosters who have masqueraded as champions of pragmatic
immigration reform are reluctant to acknowledge inconvenient facts, such as the
value of the Mexican minimum wage dropping 23 percent in NAFTA's first decade.
Nineteen million more Mexicans live in poverty now than 20 years ago.

The NAFTA years have produced unprecedented wealth for a tiny elite and disaster
for the quarter of Mexico's population who cannot even afford basic foods. In
2008, hunger is growing because Mexico is at the forefront of developing nations
hit by rising food prices.

The immigration issue will test the creativity of any incoming administration,
be it McCain or Obama. They will inherit an intensely emotional debate badly in
need of bold vision and common sense.

Genuine reform will not come from spending more on security tactics that ignore
the powerful market forces driving immigrants north across the 1,969 miles of
border Mexico shares with the United States. And it will require looking beyond
free trade panaceas.

This is especially challenging when American workers are in a bad stretch. The
opening for the candidates is to explain that both nations have a stake in
developing economic opportunities in Mexico capable of sustaining communities
and keeping families home.

Our leaders must attend to the legitimate concerns of American workers, but
never by portraying displaced Mexicans and Central Americans in our labor market
as a threat to our well-being.

I hope John McCain gets a chance to visit the devastated Mexican countryside for
a firsthand look at the gap between what NAFTA promised and what it delivered.
It might cool his ardor for ill-considered trade policies and let him get back
onboard his straight talk express.

TED LEWIS ( ted@globalexchange.org ) directs the Mexico Human Rights Program for
Global Exchange, a San Francisco-based human rights organization.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 6, 2008 Sunday

Two longtime U.S. residents who can't share American dream with their wives tell
their stories

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: SPORTS; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; State; Local; Business; Entertainment

LENGTH: 1110 words


Most of the legal immigrants who aren't allowed to live in the United States
with their spouses and children are relative newcomers who got married overseas
and then found out that they needed to be citizens to bring their loved ones to
this country.

Then there are the immigrants like Carlos Gonzales and Piero Giorgi.

Gonzales, a 26-year-old Salvadorean immigrant has been forced to move to Japan
to keep his family together. Giorgi, a 47-year-old Italian immigrant, faces the
agonizing choice of giving up a high-paying California job - and the American
dream - or busting up his family for a few years.

Here are their stories:

They came fleeing war

Gonzales came to California as a 5-year-old boy when his parents fled the civil
war in El Salvador. His mother was a professor, his father an accountant.

He grew up in Los Angeles, excelling in local schools. His father worked day and
night as a security guard. Gonzales went on to attend Pasadena City College and
California State University-Northridge.

Then, at age 21, he did something that nearly got him kicked out of the country:
He got married.

The problem was that his parents had made the mistake of waiting until Gonzales
was 16 to apply for permanent residency. Then he got married a few months before
his interview with immigration to become a legal permanent resident.

Gonzales had met his wife, Sayaka, a Japanese national, in 2001 while both were
working for a company that provided services to children with autism and other
special needs. She was here on a H-1B work visa. They married two years later.

When he went for the green-card interview, the immigration officer who handled
his application could have denied him permanent residency because his marriage
had put him in a different immigration category.

"The officer checked and re-checked with every supervisor in the building as to
what could be done so I would not be denied my green card," he recalled. "I
remember patiently waiting with tears in my eyes, asking myself why a small
thing such as marriage could pretty much have gotten me deported."

The immigration officer came up with a solution: Separate his green-card
application from his parents' application.

But his problems weren't over.

As soon as he got his green card, he immediately applied for a visa for his new
wife. But, he said, immigration officials didn't process her paperwork in time,
so she was forced to return to Japan to avoid further overstaying a temporary
visa.

The only way to see his wife was to visit her in Japan because, as the spouse of
a green-card holder, she could not even visit the United States. During one of
his trips, she became pregnant.

Then she developed medical complications and needed to stay in bed for the
remainder of her pregnancy. So in 2004, Gonzales decided to leave a good-paying
job and abandon his college studies. He took a job teaching English in Japan.

He returns to the United States twice a year to maintain his residency status.
But "going back to the U.S. is always a scary and stressful time for me," he
said. "I hold a Salvadorean passport and time after time I am discriminated at
the airports because of my passport. Even upon entering the U.S., I am asked
questions more than what the average traveler is asked.

"It makes me feel a bit angry, because deep inside I feel like I am an American.
I may hold a different passport, but my loyalty and culture has been American
since I came to the U.S.

"I know nothing else about El Salvador. The only connection I have to that
country is a passport."

Gonzales and his 29-year-old wife hope eventually to join his parents in
California, where they want to raise their two children: 3-year-old son Ryan and
their newborn daughter, Karlah.

But Gonzales thinks it will take him five or six more years to become a citizen
because he is being forced to spend so much time out of the United States.

"I have heard many stories online that people have been denied citizenship even
after being in the U.S. for five years and having short trips," he said.

So he and his wife are staring at an uncertain future.

Luck of the draw

Piero Giorgi's story is one of bad luck and good luck.

Born in Padova, Italy, near Venice, he married his hometown sweetheart in 1989.

In 1994, they moved to the Bay Area, where Giorgi worked as a software engineer
on a contract basis for several firms, including Intel in Santa Clara. Two years
later, his son, Giacomo, was born in Seton Medical Center in Daly City.

His last employer, Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, tried to sponsor him for a
green card, but he and the lab missed an important deadline. So he had to return
to Italy in 2001.

Luckily for Giorgi, two years later he won the annual immigration lottery that
gives about 50,000 visas to people from countries with low rates of immigration.
He and his wife, Manuela Zuin, were all packed on Jan. 3, 2004, and needed to
get to the United States or lose their rights to the visas. Then their son, then
7, came down with pneumonia and was not able to travel. His wife had to stay
behind and take care of her son.

She lost her right to immigrate.

"We tried to call the American consulate. We called congressmen. We called
everybody we could think of. But we were told: 'Too bad. So sad. Her visa is
expired. Period.' "

Giorgi came to the United States to establish his residency and applied for a
re-entry visa. He returned to Italy for two years, the maximum time he was
allowed to remain away from the United States and still keep his green card.

Then the Giorgi family got lucky again.

When Manuela was able to talk a consulate officer in Florence into giving her a
tourist visa to visit her husband - a hard visa to get when your spouse is a
green-card holder rather than a U.S. citizen. So they were able to move back to
California.

They now live together in Roseville near Sacramento, where Giorgi is an IT
director for a construction company.

But her tourist visa is only good for six months at a time, and she must now
return to Italy.

Giacomo is beginning seventh grade in the fall, and they now must face the
agonizing decision of whether to live apart next year. One likely scenario is to
have their U.S-born son go live with her mother in Italy until Giorgi becomes a
citizen and he can bring over his wife. But that wouldn't happen until 2010 - at
the earliest.

Another option is to "just give up on this immigration idea," Giorgi said.

Giorgi says he deeply stands the need for immigration laws, but wishes "they
weren't so convoluted."

"It's your house and you get to decide who comes in," he said. "But being a
little fair would be nice, too."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Manuel Zuin, 11-year-old Giacomo Giorgi and Piero Giorgi: The family
faces a breakup because of U.S. immigration law.
Carlos Gonzales, 3-year-old son Ryan and wife Sayaka. Because of U.S.
immigration law, the couple is living in Japan rather than the U.S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 7, 2008 Monday

Priority for immigrants

BYLINE: Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; State;
Local

LENGTH: 106 words


IMMIGRATION PRIORITIES

Under the U.S. immigration system, spouses and unmarried minor children of U.S.
citizens and the parents of adult citizens don't have to wait in line to come to
the United States. Here is how the preference system ranks people who must wait
for visas:

Unmarried people of any age (and their children) who have at least one citizen
parent.

Spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents, commonly called
"green-card holders."

Unmarried children (21 and older) of green-card holders.

Married people, of any age, who have at least one parent who is a citizen.

Brothers and sisters of adult U.S. citizens.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 11, 2008 Friday

Citizenship numbers surge in state

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; State;
Local

LENGTH: 578 words


Long a port of entry for immigrants, California has bolstered its position as a
portal to citizenship, and as the center of a national surge in citizenship
among Mexican immigrants.

According to a new report from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the
number of new citizens in California rose by 19 percent, with 181,684 residents
taking the oath of citizenship last year - the most since 2001 and more than
twice as many as any other state.

Nationally, the number of Mexican immigrants who became citizens jumped by 46
percent, to 122,258 people from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007. Mexicans made up
one-third to one-half of new citizens in California, Texas and Illinois, and in
metro areas such as Houston and San Diego.

The Bay Area ranked behind behind only metropolitan New York and Los Angeles in
the total number of new citizens. Metro San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont ranked
fifth and San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara came in 11th among individual U.S.
metropolitan statistical areas.

Immigration experts said the wave of newly minted Mexican-born U.S. citizens is
likely the result of many factors, including the immigration-reform protest
marches of 2006. Other cited reasons: local and national citizenship drives, a
rush to avoid citizenship application fee increases, fear about an
anti-immigrant backlash and the desire to vote in the 2008 elections.
Demographers also note that California's immigrants have lived longer in the
United States.

"All these factors kind of combine and they make naturalization a socially
acceptable goal," said Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Policy
Institute in Los Angeles, a think tank that studies Latino issues. "It's become
the community norm."

At least locally, the surge in naturalization appears likely to continue, if
only because of the huge backlog of unprocessed citizenship applications.

Even though the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services plans to naturalize
about 10,000 people in San Jose in August - nearly as many as in all of fiscal
2007 - and has hired seven new workers to process citizenship applications,
there is still a 14-month wait for application processing.

"What we are expecting is that wait times will decrease," said Sharon Rummery, a
spokeswoman for the government agency. "That's what we're hoping for."

In a factor that could play into the 2008 presidential race, there was also a
surge of new citizens in Western swing states, including Nevada, New Mexico and
Colorado.

Several Latino civil rights organizations have been working nationally to
encourage more Latinos, particularly recent immigrants, to become citizens. The
campaign is designed to encourage new citizens to vote for immigrant-friendly
candidates, who will push for changes such as a pathway to citizenship for those
here illegally.

In Nevada, for example, the 8,363 immigrants who naturalized in 2007 was double
the total of just five years earlier. Whether those new citizens help either
presidential candidate depends on whether people register and then actually vote
in November.

Janet Murguia, president and CEO of the National Council of La Raza, the
nation's largest Latino civil rights group, said Thursday that the
naturalization numbers show her group's efforts are beginning to pay off.

"The failure to get comprehensive immigration reform," she said, "is mobilizing
Latinos."

Mercury News Staff Writer Mary Anne Ostrom contributed to this story. Contact
Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 18, 2008 Friday

Disbarred San Jose attorney arrested on charges of practicing law without a
license

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News

LENGTH: 497 words


A disbarred San Jose attorney accused of giving legal advice and preparing
immigration documents for unsuspecting immigrants was arrested at his office
Thursday and charged with multiple felony counts of practicing law without a
license and grand theft.

James C. Lopez, 50, of San Jose, had a record of disciplinary measures related
to his competency as a lawyer, investigators said. In recent years, the Santa
Clara County District Attorney's office has received numerous complaints about
Lopez and his work, many from clients, even from other attorneys.

"It's not just a question of whether he's not supposed to be practicing law,"
said Deputy District Attorney Stan Voyles. "He's a defrocked lawyer. That's what
makes it a felony. Also, he's hurting people."

Calls to Lopez's office on De Anza Boulevard today were not returned.

Lopez, a graduate of Santa Clara University's law school, was charged with four
counts of grand theft and four counts of practicing law without a license.

In 2000, Lopez was suspended from practicing law for three months because of
incompetency. In 1998 he was disciplined for misleading a judge and failing to
keep his clients informed. He faced similar charges in 1995.

In 2002, facing disciplinary charges, Lopez resigned from the State Bar
Association. Without a license, Voyles said, Lopez continued to practice law and
charged fees for legal advice.

In one case, he allegedly bungled the case of a Mexican immigrant who is married
to a green-card holder, a legal permanent resident. Unbeknownst to the
40-year-old client, who is married with two U.S. citizen children, Lopez did not
have a license to practice law.

"He submitted papers and briefs as though she was handling the case herself,"
said San Jose lawyer Bernadette Connolly, who later represented the same woman.

The case was mishandled at each step - from her case before the Board of
Immigration Appeals, to her appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals,
Connolly said. The whole time, Lopez was charging the client legal fees.

In 2006, the woman went to Connolly for help. Realizing what had taken place,
Connolly said she filed criminal and state bar complaints against Lopez.

She convinced the federal government to re-open the woman's case. The client got
her green card last month.

Connolly who immigrated from Germany said "my heart goes out to these poor
people" victimized by Lopez.

"I really believe that people like Mr. Lopez should not be allowed to practice
law," she said. "I hope he learns from that."

Clients who filed complaints against Lopez raised questions about the competency
of his work, Voyles said.

If you have information about this case, call investigator John Valenzuela at
the District Attorney's office, (408) 792-2524.

For clients looking for information and legal services, call the Santa Clara
County Office of Human Relations, Immigrant Relations and Integration Services,
(408) 792-2300.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday

Disbarred lawyer arrested

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; Crime; News;
Local

LENGTH: 506 words


A disbarred San Jose attorney accused of giving legal advice and preparing
immigration documents for unsuspecting immigrants has been arrested at his
office and charged with multiple felony counts of practicing law without a
license and grand theft.

James C. Lopez, 50, of San Jose, had a record of disciplinary measures related
to his competence as a lawyer, investigators said. In recent years, the Santa
Clara County District Attorney's Office has received numerous complaints about
Lopez and his work, many from clients, even from other attorneys.

"It's not just a question of whether he's not supposed to be practicing law,"
said Deputy District Attorney Stan Voyles. "He's a defrocked lawyer. That's what
makes it a felony. Also, he's hurting people."

Calls to Lopez's office on De Anza Boulevard on Friday, the day after he was
arrested, were not returned.

Lopez, a graduate of Santa Clara University's law school, was charged with four
counts of grand theft and four counts of practicing law without a license.

In 2000, Lopez was suspended from practicing law for three months because of
incompetence. In 1998, he was disciplined for misleading a judge and failing to
keep his clients informed. He faced similar charges in 1995.

In 2002, facing disciplinary charges, Lopez resigned from the State Bar of
California. Without a license, Voyles said, Lopez continued to practice law and
charged fees for legal advice.

In one case, a critic charges, he bungled the case of a Mexican immigrant who is
married to a green-card holder, a legal permanent resident. Unbeknownst to the
40-year-old client, who is married with two U.S. citizen children, Lopez did not
have a license to practice law.

"He submitted papers and briefs as though she was handling the case herself,"
said San Jose lawyer Bernadette Connolly, who later represented the same woman.

The case was mishandled at each step - from her case before the Board of
Immigration Appeals, to her appeal with the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
Connolly said. The whole time, Lopez was charging the client legal fees.

In 2006, the woman went to Connolly for help. Realizing what had taken place,
Connolly said she filed criminal and state bar complaints against Lopez.

She convinced the federal government to reopen the woman's case. The client got
her green card last month.

Connolly, who immigrated from Germany, said, "My heart goes out to these poor
people" victimized by Lopez.

"I really believe that people like Mr. Lopez should not be allowed to practice
law," she said. "I hope he learns from that."

Clients who filed complaints against Lopez raised questions about the competence
of his work, Voyles said.

Anyone with information about this case may call investigator John Valenzuela at
the district attorney's office, (408) 792-2524.

For clients looking for information and legal services, call the Santa Clara
County Office of Human Relations, Immigrant Relations and Integration Services,
(408) 792-2300.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday

County voter drive blocked

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin and Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; State;
Local

LENGTH: 992 words


It was a procedure that produced a bumper crop of new voters:

Just before Santa Clara County immigrants were sworn in as U.S. citizens, they
got voter-registration cards and were shown how to fill them out. At the
conclusion of the naturalization ceremony, most new citizens had signed the
cards and handed them in to become registered voters.

But in March, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services declared that the county
registrar of voters must not hand out those cards until the recipients are
officially citizens. And now voter registration has plunged by 82 percent.

"Everybody's really disappointed," said Diane Moore, precinct operations
division manager for the county registrar's office. "Before this processing
change, we were one of the models in the state of California. We did this with a
great amount of pride."

With new citizens unable to fill out the cards at their own pace during the
ceremony, registrar workers found it nearly impossible to catch the new citizens
as they rushed toward the door after the ceremony to get back to jobs or to
family obligations.

Plus, one Citizenship and Immigration Services staffer has been "telling new
citizens to leave the building while they are still filling out their voter
registration cards," according to an internal county memo obtained by the
Mercury News.

The impact was definitive: The county registered 3,140 new voters at
naturalization ceremonies in the four months before the new policy went into
effect, but only 557 new voters registered in the four months since. Registrars
signed up as many as 65 percent of new citizens before the change, but just 8
percent registered at the most recent ceremony in June.

Outraged reaction

The new policy by the agency, an arm of the Department of Homeland Security, has
caused outrage among local League of Women Voters volunteers as well as local
congressional representatives.

"Homeland Security has no jurisdiction over this. They can't limit voter
registration," said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, chairwoman of the House
Judiciary immigration subcommittee. "Who do they think they are?"

Some are concerned that the new policy is an attempt to suppress voter
participation by new citizens.

"For me, it's strictly political," said Socorro Reyes-McCord, a member of the
county registrar's voting rights advisory committee. Government officials "are
trying to keep these newly naturalized citizens out of the electoral process."

Federal officials deny that charge. But Citizenship and Immigration Services has
not forced other Bay Area county registrars, who began using Santa Clara County
as a model in distributing voter registration cards during naturalization
ceremonies in San Francisco, to change their procedures.

Santa Clara County officials say they were notified March 19 in a telephone call
from Francis D. Siciliano, then-director of the agency's San Jose field office,
that a lawsuit filed against the Department of Homeland Security was forcing the
change.

Siciliano, who retired July 3, said in an interview Friday that he had received
a memo from his superiors in Washington, D.C., saying it would be inappropriate
for citizens-to-be to receive registration materials until they had actually
taken the oath of citizenship.

"It was a technicality," he said, but added that he couldn't recall which
official in Washington sent the memo, or who had filed the lawsuit that prompted
it.

He said politics were not involved. "None whatsoever, to be very honest with
you," he said.

Sharon Rummery, a Citizenship and Immigration Services spokeswoman, also said
she could not identify the source of the lawsuit, or confirm that it exists. As
to charges that an official with the agency has been pushing new citizens to
leave the building as they were trying to register, Rummery said: "There's no
indication that has happened, but we do encourage people to make a complaint if
they feel something's been done that isn't right."

Rummery said, however, that one reason for the policy change was that the
registration effort was contributing to a crowding problem at the naturalization
ceremonies.

"It's a choice based on the logistics of the facility," she said. "The logistics
of this has to be something that's workable to us. We do have a certain amount
of latitude" in deciding when registrars distribute registration materials.

Thousands of new citizens

Once held at the Civic Auditorium in downtown San Jose, the Santa Clara County
naturalization ceremonies have recently been held monthly in the Campbell
Heritage Theater. Citizenship and Immigration Services holds three separate
ceremonies on each swearing-in day, each with 400 to 500 people. But because of
the huge jump in the number of citizenship applications last year, the agency
expects to naturalize - in Santa Clara County - as many as 10,000 new citizens
in special ceremonies in August.

Registrar officials say they used the "down time" before the naturalization
ceremonies to give a PowerPoint presentation showing how to complete a
voter-registration affidavit. It made the process go smoothly, particularly for
immigrants who are still struggling with English, registrar officials said.
Bilingual assistance was also made available.

Santa Clara Registrar of Voters Jesse Durazo said workers still give the
PowerPoint presentation. But it's problematic because the citizens-to-be don't
have voter registration cards in front of them.

"In fairness, there are some places in the country to that the CIS doesn't allow
the registrar of voters to be present," Durazo said. "We're fortunate in that we
at least have a presence."

Lawsuit or no lawsuit, U.S. Rep. Sam Farr, D-Salinas, said he's mystified.

"It's ironic that the agency tasked with promoting citizenship in our country
would throw up obstacles to voting, one of the fundamental actions of a
citizen," he said. "DHS should be trying to make the process easier, not
harder."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at or kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com .

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday

Cupertino Rotary ushers in president with focus on philanthropy

BYLINE: By Crystal Lu Cupertino Courier

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 609 words


The first foreign-born president of the Cupertino Rotary Club is determined to
involve more first-generation immigrants in community service.

"There's a perception that first-generation immigrants are less outgoing, less
active in the community," says Steve Ting, president of the 162-member Rotary
Club since July 1. "I'd like to change that."

Ting, a Rotarian since 2002, was 25 when he came from Taiwan to the United
States in the 1970s to attend graduate school. He earned master's degrees in
both math and computer science.

In 1977, Ting moved from the Midwest to Silicon Valley to work for a
telecommunications company. He and his family lived in San Jose before coming to
Cupertino in 1987.

Ting has been giving back to the community as long as he's been in the U.S. He
says Taiwan wasn't rich enough to support nonprofit organizations when he left,
so he first learned about philanthropy in America. He donated a percentage of
his salary to the American Red Cross as soon as he received his first paycheck.

Ting, 62, is retired. But his son followed his father's advice by having a
portion of his paycheck deducted for charitable donations.

Ting says he often tells an old folk tale to illustrate the importance of
giving. Chinese legend has it that everyone in both heaven and hell gets a
foot-long spoon. Those in heaven are happy, while those in hell are not. Why,
beyond the obvious reason, is that?

It's because in hell they try to use the long-handled spoon to feed themselves
and always spill their food, says Ting. In heaven, they use the spoons to feed
one another so they all get fed.

"It's a pleasure to give," says Ting. "But individual effort may not be enough.
It takes group effort to make great things happen."

Ting says he is proud that Cupertino Rotarians have raised more than $150,000 in
the past 12 months to support 20 community service projects, 10 youth and
vocational projects and 14 international projects in eight countries.

Ting quotes the club's motto, "Have more people and help more people," as the
mission for his one-year term. He also says membership, fellowship and
partnership are his three objectives for the coming year.

Ting says he will continue past leaders' endeavors to diversify the club's
membership by convincing minorities that they can thrive in mainstream
organizations.

"I don't believe there's a glass ceiling," says Ting, citing his career success
as an example.

Ting was vice president of sales, handling major accounts at Nortel Networks, an
international company, before retiring in 2000. He says he can use his global
experience in the corporate world to help the Cupertino Rotary Club grow.

In Ting's vision, Rotarians will build strong fellowship internally and
externally. Close connections will facilitate everything the club does.

The club will also create more win-win situations with its partners. Ting says
the club should follow the model of its partnership with the Valley Medical
Center, which advertised Rotary events in its newsletter and helped raise more
funds before receiving a Rotary grant. That, in turn, made the grant larger than
initially pledged.

"We want one plus one to equal more than two," Ting says.

The next Rotary event is the "Eastern Elegance" at Hakone Garden in Saratoga on
Aug. 22. It will raise funds for humanitarian projects worldwide.

For local projects, this year's Fall Festival will be called Fall Family
Festival and is scheduled Sept. 13-14.

The club will also hold a "Polio Plus Concert" this fall, scheduled for Oct. 11,
to raise funds for eliminating polio around the world.

For more information about these upcoming events, e-mail Steve Ting at
s_ting@pacbell.net .

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jerra Rowland hits a gong to start off the Cupertino Rotary Club's
meeting with its first foreign-born president, Steve Ting. Normally a bell is
rung to start off Rotary meetings but it was replaced with this gong to honor
Ting's Taiwanese heritage. (photo Jacqueline Ramseyer/SVCN/July 30, 2008)
Headshot of Steve Ting, Cupertino Rotary President as of July 30, 2008. (photo
Jacqueline Ramseyer/SVCN)
Steve Ting, Cupertino's new Rotary President, addresses the lunch crowd at the
Quinlan Center on July 30, 2008. Ting, a retired former VP at Nortel Networks,
has been a Rotarian for the past seven years and is serving as president for the
first time. (photo Jacqueline Ramseyer/SVCN)
New Cupertino Rotary Club President Steve Ting welcomes visiting Rotarian P.S.
Santhanam who presented Ting with a banner from his Rotary Club of Madras,
located out of India. (photo Jacqueline Ramseyer/SVCN/July 30, 2008)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday

Time for historical lesson on Mexican migration into U.S.

BYLINE: By Arturo Villarrealand Charley Trujillo

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 723 words


Immigration is driven by historical and economic necessity on both sides of the
border. There are times when the United States needs Mexican labor, such as
during World War I and World War II, that migration is encouraged. During
economic downturns, migration is discouraged. Repression is directed toward this
population, such as during the Great Depression, the economic recession of the
1950s and the present downturn.

Perhaps by analyzing and understanding history, we can change our perspective on
the issue - not by building a fence across the border but by building a bridge
between two countries that share a long history. It is difficult to comprehend
that a physical barrier across the border will fence in history.

Most discussions of Mexican migration into the United States lack a historical
perspective that lead to characterize it as a spontaneous and recent phenomenon.
However, people of Mexican origin are descendants of one of the six original
world civilizations and whose ancestors help lay the foundation for the
development of the present-day Southwest and other regions.

The melting pot theory of assimilation and its assumptions are most often used
by journalists, politicians and citizens who don't believe Mexican immigrants,
legal or not, are productive members of society. At best, this theory is
applicable to ethnic immigrants of European heritage. Unlike European immigrants
who had to traverse an ocean, this theory does not apply to Native Americans or
Mexicans who are indigenous to America.

The first significant contact between whites and Chicanos led to the Texas
revolt of 1834-36 when the symbolic battle of the Alamo occurred. Many of the
whites in the Alamo were undocumented because Mexico barred further white
immigration into Texas in 1830. Armed with a strong military and the ideological
doctrine of manifest destiny that deemed the United States as people chosen by
God to rule from sea to shining sea, the United States invaded Mexico in 1846.

Mexico lost the war and signed the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848. Mexico
ceded California, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado and parts of Nevada, Utah and
Wyoming for $15 million. Under the treaty, remaining Mexicans became U.S.
citizens with all rights of property, language and religion. However, the
provisions were ignored; or, in the case of property, it was taken by legal and
extralegal means.

Violence against Chicanos by vigilantes and law enforcement officials was so
severe that scores left for Mexico. Violence faced by those remaining was
comparable to what blacks faced in the South. By the early 1900s, cheap Mexican
labor was needed for work in the mines, railroads, agriculture and other
industries. During this period, Mexicans also migrated to the Midwest and
Northwest. The Mexican Revolution and World War I also contributed to push and
pull factors that brought migration of Mexicans into the United States. It is
estimated one-eighth of Mexico's population legally moved into the United States
during this period.

Mexican labor has been instrumental in the development of infrastructure and
capital accumulation in the United States. However, with the economic depression
of the 1930s, Mexican labor was no longer necessary. Hundreds of thousands of
Mexicans were deported. This deportation included U.S. citizens, a practice that
continues.

Racial categorization in the United States is the confusion of race, nationality
and ethnicity, whereby people of Mexican origin are always suspect of being
foreign, regardless of legal status. To the dominant society, however, they are
all indistinguishable. Unlike European immigrant groups who are removed
geographically from home countries, Chicano culture and language are reinforced
by new arrivals from Mexico. Unlike immigrants from other countries who can
forge a new place for themselves, migrants from Mexico have a ready-made niche
for them because of historical circumstances. Historical perceptions and
stereotypes of Mexicans precede them as they venture into other parts of the
United States. Hopefully, by understanding our shared history, we can refrain
from stereotyping and scapegoating Mexicans.

ARTURO VILLARREAL is a professor at Evergreen Valley College in San Jose.
CHARLEY TRUJILLO is a writer and publisher in San Jose. They wrote this article
for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 8, 2008 Friday

New U.S. citizens can again register to vote before they're sworn in

BYLINE: By Mike Swift and Pauline Lubens Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 790 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT(Publ. 08/16/08)
An article about a recent naturalization ceremony for new citizens in San Jose
incorrectly described who distributed voter registration materials. Only county
registrar officials were permitted to distribute those materials at the
ceremony.

There was never any doubt that Silicon Valley was set to mint a new crop of
citizens this month. Now it seems there will be thousands of new voters too.

A dispute over a new registration procedure that stopped many new citizens from
becoming voters this spring has been settled, just as about 10,000 immigrants
are scheduled to become new U.S. citizens in San Jose this month.

On Thursday, local voter registration officials and advocates freely passed out
voter registration material to about 3,000 people before they took the oath of
citizenship at the Santa Clara County fairgrounds.

"We're very satisfied with the arrangement with the United States Citizenship
and Immigration Services," said Matt Moreles, a spokesman for the Santa Clara
County registrar, after the ceremony.

Taking the oath of citizenship is a joyful end of an odyssey to full membership
in American society for many people. On Thursday, that included one of the
former Lost Boys of Sudan.

Simon Kuir Deng, who fled Sudan 20 years ago for Ethiopia, before being forced
back to Sudan and fleeing again to Kenya, was in the happy throng. Ultimately he
got approval to come to the United States as a refugee, and settled in San Jose
in May of 2001.

"It's good to have a voice and to exercise that to determine who will be
president," Deng said during a celebratory gathering at a friend's house after
the ceremony.

The dispute between federal immigration officials and county voting officials
came as a surge of immigrants were preparing to take the oath of citizenship.
The rush is believed to be fueled - at least in part - by the fervor resulting
from the national immigration protest marches of 2006. Other factors include:
increases in application fees, the desire of many immigrants to vote in the 2008
presidential election and local citizenship drives by immigrant-rights groups.
Immigration advocates also say there is a fear of a backlash against immigrants.

In addition to Thursday's ceremony, USCIS plans to naturalize at least 6,000
additional people next Thursday at the fairgrounds, in addition to regular
monthly naturalization ceremonies in Campbell.

"We want everybody to get a chance to be a U.S. citizen just as soon as
possible," said Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services.

The wave of new citizens was one reason why voter registration officials and
advocates were so concerned about a new policy begun this spring by the USCIS.
It required county registrars to wait until the very end of the naturalization
ceremony to distribute voter registration materials. After the change in March,
voter registration dropped by about 80 percent, as many new citizens failed to
register in the rush to return to work or to celebrate with friends and
families.

But following a July 19 Mercury News story about the dramatic drop in voter
registration, Rummery said this week that voter materials again would be
distributed at the start of ceremonies. County registrars left voter
registration materials on the chairs to be occupied by immigrants taking the
oath.

Registrars did not have a count as of late Thursday for the total number of new
voters registered, but officials "were very happy" with the number of new
citizens who completed applications, Moreles said.

Rummery said federal officials had not realized Santa Clara County voter
registrars were unhappy with the change in the registration procedure until the
Mercury News story ran.

A retired USCIS official - Francis D. Siciliano, then-director of the agency's
San Jose field office - told the Mercury News that he made the change based on
an order from Washington, D.C. He said was unable to recall the names of the
higher-ups in Washington who ordered the change.

While Thursday's naturalization ceremony was not the largest ever in San Jose -
one ceremony in the 1990s packed the HP Pavilion - it was the largest in years.
Crowds of new citizens and their families clogged the entrances to the
fairgrounds.

The ceremony was scheduled to begin at 10 a.m, and participants were asked to be
there by 9. But as 10 o'clock approached, traffic on Tully Road was so backed up
that people could be seen jumping from the passenger seat of cars and running
down the street.

They were running toward the fairgrounds, determined not to let a traffic jam
cheat them of the date with citizenship and democracy many had waited so long to
fulfill.

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: August 7, 2008 -- San Jose, CA - Simon Kuir Deng, who came to San Jose
in 200, poses for a photo after becoming a U.S. citizen at Expo Hall at the
Santa Clara County fairgrounds August 7, 2008. Deng,27, was one of the more than
3,000 immigrants who took the citizenship oath. He fled Sudan at age 7 in 1987
when his village was destroyed by the war there. Deng was one of the tens of
thousands of young men who became known as The Lost Boys of Sudan, because they
were traveling without their parents. He fled to Ethiopia, was forced back to
Sudan, then fled to Kenya where he stayed until he was given clearance to
emigrate to the U.S. as a refugee. Thousands of the Lost Boys of Sudan died from
starvation or attacks by lions or crocodiles.. (Pauline Lubens/San Jose Mercury
News)
August 7, 2008 -- San Jose, CA - Simon Kuir Deng, who came to San Jose in 2001,
looks over his voter registration form with friend Jane Brometerafter becoming a
U.S. citizen at Expo Hall at the Santa Clara County Fairgrounds August 7, 2008.
Deng,27, was one of the more than 3,000 immigrants who took the citizenship
oath. He fled Sudan at age 7 in 1987 when his village was destroyed by the war
there. Deng was one of the tens of thousands of young men who became known as
The Lost Boys of Sudan, because they were traveling without their parents. He
fled to Ethiopia, was forced back to Sudan, then fled to Kenya where he stayed
until he was given clearance to emigrate to the U.S. as a refugee. Thousands of
the Lost Boys of Sudan died from starvation or attacks by lions or crocodiles..
(Pauline Lubens/San Jose Mercury News)
August 7, 2008 -- San Jose, CA - Simon Kuir Deng, who came to San Jose in 2001,
hugs Cecilia Derieux while celebrating becoming a U.S. citizen August 7, 2008.
Deng,27, was one of the more than 3,000 immigrants who took the citizenship oath
at Expo Hall at the Santa Clara County Fairgrounds. He fled Sudan at age 7 in
1987 when his village was destroyed by the war there. Deng was one of the tens
of thousands of young men who became known as The Lost Boys of Sudan, because
they were traveling without their parents. He fled to Ethiopia, was forced back
to Sudan, then fled to Kenya where he stayed until he was given clearance to
emigrate to the U.S. as a refugee. Thousands of the Lost Boys of Sudan died from
starvation or attacks by lions or crocodiles.. (Pauline Lubens/San Jose Mercury
News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 8, 2008 Friday

The U Visa Arrives

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; Crime; News;
Local

LENGTH: 690 words


The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has issued the first handful of U visas
for immigrant victims of crime and domestic violence, almost eight years after
Congress enacted the legislation meant to help law enforcement.

One of the first recipients of the special, temporary visa is Bay Area resident
Jose Suarez, 38, an undocumented immigrant from western El Salvador, who was
severely beaten in a 2007 robbery in San Mateo.

A construction worker, Suarez's court testimony led to the felony assault
conviction last year of a San Mateo man who served six months in the county jail
and was sentenced to three years' probation.

"I've no words to say how grateful I am," said Suarez, "to God and to people who
have helped me."

With the new visa, Suarez is able to remain legally in the United States, work
with a permit and, in three years, apply to become a permanent resident. There
were four other visas issued recently to immigrants in Chicago and New York
City.

Women's and immigrant advocates around the country said the news of the first U
visas signaled a hopeful, if belated, development in the national effort to
implement the 2000 Crime Victims Act. Congress passed the legislation to
encourage immigrant victims of crime and domestic violence to report crimes
without worrying about their immigration status. Law enforcement agencies
supported the legislation because, they said, it helped with policing and
getting criminals off the streets.

But for the past seven years and eight months, the law has sat unused because
there were no written regulations on how to apply for the visa. Congress planned
for 10,000 U visas a year. While the regulations were pending, the federal
government put in place a temporary fix: "interim relief," effectively a pending
application for a U visa for hundreds of immigrants around the country.

Those applications are still pending.

Officials with DHS, the body that oversees the Citizenship and Immigration
Services, said the delay had to do with coordinating the work of many agencies:
police, district attorneys, CIS and DHS.

"It's a complicated adjustment," said Sharon Rummery, a CIS spokeswoman. "That's
why it's taking so long."

The first U visas, she said are "something that we're just getting started
with."

Recently, DHS dispatched an official to the Bay Area in one of the first
official training sessions conducted by the federal government on the U visa.

Last year, DHS finally issued regulations - pushed hard by women's groups - but
it still took almost a year to issue the first visas.

"I hope that this means many more U visas for victims like Jose," said Mary
Dutcher, an immigration attorney and program director at Community Legal
Services in East Palo Alto, the non-profit that helped Suarez apply for the
visa.

But like other women's and immigrant advocates, Dutcher said she hopes the
government will move quickly with many more immigrants whose applications have
been pending for the past two years.

"This is fantastic news for the people who got the U visas," said Susan Bowyer,
managing attorney for the International Institute of the Bay Area, one of the
many Bay Area groups that joined forces with national women's groups to push DHS
to write regulations.

"It's also good news for the community," she said, "when immigrants and
perpetrators know that there's no more impunity for attacking an undocumented
person."

The July 29, 2007, robbery and assault left Suarez with a scarred lower lip,
severe headaches, temporary vision loss, dizziness, earaches and emotional
distress. To this day, Suarez said in an interview, he is afraid to leave his
home and has a severe emotional response when someone is walking behind him.

That summer night, Suarez said he and a friend were walking home from a church
service and stopped at a neighborhood store in San Mateo. Four young men
confronted them outside, and one demanded money. One of the men beat and knocked
Suarez to the ground, and later, followed him home.

"There are things I can't ever forget," said a tearful Suarez. "I hope with
time, I am able to forget."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jose Suarez, of San Mateo, who was assaulted and severely beaten by
four men in a 2007 robbery in San Mateo, became this week the second person in
the United States to receive a U Visa, a special visa for victims of crime and
domestic violence. Suarez still suffers the mental and physical scars from that
attack; he says he hopes to one day put it behind him.(MARIA J. AVILA/MERCURY
NEWS)
Jose Suarez, of San Mateo, who was assaulted and severely beaten by four men in
a 2007 robbery in San Mateo, became this week the second person in the United
States to receive a U Visa, a special visa for victims of crime and domestic
violence. Suarez still suffers the mental and physical scars from that attack;
he says he hopes to one day put it behind him.(MARIA J. AVILA/MERCURY NEWS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 15, 2008 Friday

National and Washington news in brief

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 430 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

American Airlines

fined for safety problems

The Federal Aviation Administration said Thursday that it is seeking $7.1
million from American Airlines for continuing to fly airliners after safety
problems were reported and for drug-testing violations.

The Texas-based airline delayed repairs on two MD-80s after problems were
reported with their autopilot systems and flew them 58 times in violation of
federal regulations, the FAA said.

The largest fine FAA has ever proposed against an airline was $10.2 million
against Southwest Airlines in March for flying airplanes without performing
mandatory inspections, the FAA said.

American released a statement calling the fine "excessive" and saying it intends
to contest it.

ARIZONA

6 illegal immigrants

sign up to be deported

Just six illegal immigrants volunteered to leave the United States in the first
week of a pilot program inviting nearly 500,000 people to self-deport, federal
officials said.

The six who signed up by Wednesday evening included an Estonian in Phoenix, a
married Indian couple and a Guatemalan in Chicago, a Salvadoran in Charlotte,
N.C., and a Mexican in San Diego, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement program in San Diego.

TEXAS

Jury: Osteen's wife didn't

assault flight attendant

A jury found Thursday that Victoria Osteen, the co-pastor of one of the nation's
largest megachurches, did not assault a Continental Airlines flight attendant
during an argument in 2005, and would not have to pay damages.

The verdict, which came after only two hours of deliberation, ended a civil
trial over a minor altercation that has fascinated Texas, pitting the word of a
flight attendant against that of two stars in populist religion, Joel and
Victoria Osteen, who run the giant Lakewood Church in a former basketball arena
in Houston.

TENNESSEE

Woman who cloned dogs

wanted on charges

A woman who made headlines by having five pups cloned and was linked to an
abduction case in England also is wanted in Tennessee on charges she tried to
plan a burglary in 2004, a defense attorney and prosecutors said.

Joyce Bernann McKinney was charged in Carter County with criminal conspiracy to
commit aggravated burglary, contributing to the delinquency of a minor and
failure to appear in court, said attorney David Crockett, who represented her in
the Tennessee case. Authorities there said she instructed a 15-year-old boy to
break into a house. Crockett said she needed the money to buy a false leg for a
beloved horse.

From Mercury News wire services

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday

After fighting deportation for five years, green cards for Amin brothers

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 820 words


For five years, San Jose brothers Hassan and Ahmad Amin battled a deportation
order to their native Pakistan after getting caught up in a controversial
national security dragnet following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

But last month, they once again stood before a judge and finally received the
news that freed them from an immigration ordeal that threatened to separate them
from the mother who brought her sons here a decade ago: They became legal
permanent residents.

"I never want to see another courtroom again," Hassan Amin declared. "No more
court dates!"

The Amin brothers were among 14,000 men and boys from mostly Arab and Muslim
countries who were ordered deported in the years after the 2001 terror attacks
as part of a government plan to track the movement of foreigners. More than
80,000 reported to local immigration offices to register; hundreds were detained
and thousands more were ordered deported, mostly for minor visa violations.

Today, thousands are still facing deportation, years after the program was
abruptly halted by the government. The Amins, however, won their fight to stay
with their mother, a legal resident, thanks to the persistence of an attorney
who has been critical of the tracking program.

"It's such a relief," said Ahmad Amin, who this semester started studying
finance at San Jose State University.

Within days of getting approved for green cards, the brothers applied for Social
Security cards. Soon, they'll be applying for driver's licenses. Now that he's
got a work permit, Hassan Amin has gone job hunting.

After graduating with a finance degree last year, he was unable to take a job
while the deportation case was pending.

Mercury News stories in 2003 and 2006 detailed the plight of the Amin brothers,
both from San Jose, whose young lives were upended by the national security
program meant to catch terrorists.

The Amin brothers, who had pending green card applications through their mother
now a U.S. citizen   were ordered deported because they had overstayed their
visitors' visas after arriving in the United States in 1998.

Their lawyer argued they had a right to be in the country because their mother
had acquired a green card while the brothers were minors. But their efforts to
remain were thwarted in 2003 when they reported to the San Jose immigration
office for special registration. An immigration official ordered the brothers
deported.

Hassan Amin, 19 at the time, was detained overnight in the Yuba County Jail.
Like a criminal parolee, Ahmad Amin, then 17, was required to report monthly to
an immigration officer.

There's anecdotal evidence from immigration lawyers that many who registered,
like the Amin brothers, resolved their immigration cases. Others have been
deported, and others left on their own.

The number of people still fighting deportation is unknown, but James Zogby,
president of the Arab American Institute, estimates there are thousands.

"How many are caught in this hellish situation, this limbo of fear?" said Zogby,
whose Washington group has been negotiating with the Department of Homeland
Security to help resolve the special registration cases. "There's no clarity."

Homeland Security officials did not have numbers on the status of those facing
deportation as a result of special registration. The government ended the
program late in 2003, a year after it began, replacing it with a program that
requires visitors from certain countries to be fingerprinted and photographed at
airports.

"I'm glad it's over," said Imran Mughal, a brother of the Amins who is U.S.
citizen. "Now they can look forward to new challenges."

On a recent trip to San Francisco, the Amin brothers presented small cakes and a
box of dried fruit mixed with rosewater-scented sugar bits to Banafsheh
Akhlaghi, the immigration attorney who fought for the brothers. They also handed
her a small red bag and a card from their mother, Tahira Manzur.

"This is too much," she said. "Am I going to cry when I read this?"

Learning of the brothers' case outraged Akhlaghi, an outspoken critic of
government national security measures after Sept. 11. She joined a chorus of
national critics   from the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee and a host of immigrant advocacy groups   in
denouncing the special registration program because, they said, it targeted
Arabs and Muslims.

"It was just a way to legalize racial profiling," said Samina Faheem, founding
executive director of the American Muslim Voice, a Fremont non-profit that
started a national hot line for special registration cases.

Hundreds of Pakistanis from the Bay Area and elsewhere were deported after
registering, Faheem said. Some left voluntarily.

For five years, Manzur has worried only about one thing: Will her sons be
deported to Pakistan?

"Now," she said, "what am I going to worry about?"

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brothers Hassan, 25, left and Ahmad Amin, 23, pose for a portrit in
Santa Clara, Sept. 3, 2008. Originally from Pakistan, the Ahmid brothers have
been trying for years to get their green cards and have finally succeeded.(David
M. Barreda/Mercury News)
Brothers Hassan, 25, left and Ahmad Amin, 23, pose for a portrit in Santa Clara,
Sept. 3, 2008. Originally from Pakistan, the Ahmid brothers have been trying for
years to get their green cards and have finally succeeded.(David M.
Barreda/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 22, 2008 Monday

Majority of Santa Clara County families speak foreign language at home

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; Special
Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 820 words


After decades of immigration from Asia and Latin America, Silicon Valley has hit
a linguistic milestone that is rare in America: For the first time, a majority
of Santa Clara County residents speak a language other than English at home.

In 2007, Santa Clara was one of just 10 counties in the United States where more
than 50 percent of residents speak a foreign language at home, according to new
U.S. Census Bureau data being released today.

Most of those counties are home to Spanish speakers on the Mexican border or
multilingual populations in large cities like New York, Los Angeles and Miami.
But Santa Clara County, which is suburban in character, is home to a different
kind of phenomenon, with highly educated workers and students drawn to the
high-tech job mecca of Silicon Valley as orchards and farm fields gradually gave
way to office space and cul-de-sacs.

The change has been steady and consistent. As recently as 1990, less than
one-third of South Bay residents spoke a foreign language at home. But by 2000,
that number grew to 45 percent, as new arrivals from India, Mexico and China
joined earlier immigrants from Vietnam, the Philippines and other countries.

About 51 percent of Santa Clara County households speak another language at
home. Spanish is the most common foreign language, spoken by about 312,000
people. About 280,000 people speak Chinese, Vietnamese or Tagalog at home.

Silicon Valley's ability to emboss cultural diversity onto a suburban
boilerplate makes it unique not just in the United States now, but to some
degree in the nation's history, said Hans Johnson, a demographer with the Public
Policy Institute of California.

The valley does not reflect the traditional 20th century immigrant story of
moving into a poor ethnic neighborhood and scrimping and saving for the next
generation. "What's really driving this is the addition of highly skilled,
high-tech workers who come directly into the middle class here in the United
States," Johnson said.

The linguistic and cultural diversity of Silicon Valley is also greater than
other tech centers in the United States, said Bill Frey, a demographer with the
Brookings Institution.

"I think it's the origin of the whole area, the fact there's been a strong Asian
presence in Northern California for a long time," Frey said. "Silicon Valley is
different than Austin or the Research Triangle or even Route 128" outside
Boston.

The growing number of Chinese and Spanish speakers in Santa Clara County doesn't
mean English is losing ground. Even as the number of Spanish speakers has grown
rapidly this decade, 51 percent of Spanish-speakers were also fluent in English
in 2007, up from 48 percent in 2000, the new Census data show.

That diversity is showing up in Milpitas, which looks a world away from Ellis
Island, but it's one of just nine U.S. cities where a majority of the population
is foreign-born, according to today's Census data on about 800 cities with at
least 65,000 residents.

The Milpitas Unified School District has students who speak at least 42
languages, but a weekend afternoon presents a typical American suburban scene of
yard sales, ice cream trucks, guys tinkering with boats in the driveway, and
yard signs for politicians running for mayor or city council. Some of that
foreign-born population gathers at the India Community Center near Calaveras
Boulevard, where a creative-writing class might be mostly in Hindi, but where
much of the talk, whether it's a discussion of the presidential election or the
merits of arranged marriage, is in English.

Because people from across India speak so many different languages, English "is
the only language in which we can communicate with everybody here," said
Prabhakar Kulkarni, a retired doctor from Mumbai who speaks the language Marathi
at home with his wife, Rajani.

It's what they grew up speaking in Mumbai and still feel most comfortable with,
even though they have lived permanently in the South Bay since 1995, and their
California-born grandchildren have trouble speaking Marathi back to them.

While there are plenty of ethnic tongues in Milpitas, there's little or no
ethnic turf, said Police Chief Dennis Graham, who grew up in town.

"There is no such thing as a ghetto in Milpitas, where one group of people live
exclusive of other ethnic groups," Graham said. "If you look at the diversity we
have in Milpitas, we have very little racial tension here."

At Murphy Park down the street from James Staten's house, the battle for playing
fields tends to be between people playing cricket and those playing soccer,
rather than those playing baseball or football.

"We represent the changing face of America," said Staten, a 51-year-old New
Jersey native who has lived in Milpitas for 15 years and who is a teacher in San
Jose. "That's one of the things I like about it   you have people from all walks
of life."

Contact Mike Swift at mswift@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3648.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Prabhakar Kulkarni and his wife Rajani are photographed in front of
the area devoted to prayer in their Milpitas home on Sept. 22, 2008. They
Kulkarni family represent a demographic fact that Santa Clara County has the
second largest foreign born population in the United States behind Miami.
According to new Census data collected from 2007, Santa Clara County is one of
ten counties in the United States where the majority of the population speaks a
language other than English at home. (Gary Reyes/Mercury News)
Dr. Prabhakar Kulkarni and his wife Rajani are photographed in their Milpitas
home on Sept. 22, 2008. They Kulkarni family represent a demographic fact that
Santa Clara County has the second largest foreign born population in the United
States behind Miami. According to new Census data collected from 2007, Santa
Clara County is one of ten counties in the United States where the majority of
the population speaks a language other than English at home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 22, 2008 Monday

Sept. 22 Additional Readers Letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 1802 words


Additional "Letters to the Editor'

From the readers of the Mercury News

NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

While I am delighted that the Erica Rix story (Page 1B, Sept. 21) seems to have
ended happily, one item in the article caught my eye: the fortuitous
intervention of a professional medical bystander who "knew that 911 calls from
cell phones sometimes don't immediately reach local dispatchers", so instead
used a direct inside emergency line personally known to her. How many of us have
made 911 frantic calls from our cars, only to hear, "All operators are busy
right now; please hold"? Time is often of the essence, and not all crimes and
emergencies are reportable by land lines. Budgets might be tight, but we must
get our priorities in order. Otherwise the next little Erica may not end up so
lucky.

Susan Kowalski, Sunnyvale

You've missed the mark on "Immigrants' path to state colleges..." (Editorial,
Sept. 19). First, U.S. citizenship is a precious attribute that requires
responsibilities while providing rights; illegal immigrants have not fulfilled
the requisite responsibilities- adherence to our (immigration) laws.

Second, all levels of government are cutting essential social services to deal
with deficits; how can we justify assisting illegal immigrants while not
providing essential services to citizens? The tuition cost burden under
discussion is relatively small, but expand the calculation to all K-12 education
and emergency health care for all illegal immigrants and you're dealing with
hundreds of millions of dollars.

We should not be assisting illegal immigrants at the expense of citizens- even
in such an important area as education.

Daniel Lee, San Jose

I couldn't agree more with your editorial (Editorial, Sept. 19) that stated
California should be able to charge its own residents seeking a college
education "in state" tuition. Many undocumented immigrant students who seek
advancement in our society through higher education speak English better than
many of us who were born here, excel in the classroom and are Californians in
every way except for the fact that they happened to immigrate to this country.
The Supreme Court case of Plyer vs. Doe (1982) held that denial of a public
education to immigrant children is a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of
our constitution. The State of California has invested in the K-12 education of
these students. Many have overcome economic and language barriers in our
schools, and, as a result, avoid becoming another California drop-out statistic
and seek a college education. These undocumented students are our neighbors and
deserve access to higher education. Charging out-of-state tuition to these
serious, hard-working and successful students, most from low socioeconomic
circumstances, would effectively shut the door to their success. California
taxpayers have a genuine interest in educating all our children and will benefit
many times over by investing in their future.

Your editorial also supports the Federal DREAM Act, which gives undocumented
students a path to citizenship and eligibility for financial aid. With both
presidential candidates co-sponsoring this legislation, passing the Federal
DREAM Act transcends partisanship. Let's hope it is swiftly enacted.

Children come to this country in a variety of ways, some as innocent young
children of parents who are willing to risk much to make a better life for their
family. Many overcome incredible odds to do well in school, graduate from high
school and seek college degrees. By keeping access to a quality college
education affordable, we continue the American tradition of rewarding hard work,
commitment and the desire to contribute to our society.

Is this not the American way?

Laura Casas Frier, Los Altos

Like it's cousin 9/11 that changed the world as we know it, 9/15 and the days
following will also change the world as we know it. In a few weeks time the
taxpayers of this country have had $6 trillion dollars of additional debt
hoisted upon it's shoulders. Our lives and our retirements will never be the
same again. The current and future generations will face massive tax increases
as well as sharp increases in inflation that will erode our standard of living
in signficant ways. In some important ways America has ceded control of it's
monetary policy to foreign debt holders whom we depend on so much to finance our
high consumption lifestyle. It remains to be seen if ordinary Americans can
stomach the belt tightening they will face for a long period to come. And it
also remains to be seen if the Congress has the courage to fend off the
lobbyists and impose tough new regulations on the financial industry.

Anthony Stegman, San Jose

Your Sunday headline concerning the economic rescue plan is titled "How much is
$700 billion?" It is hard to grasp the scale of such huge numbers, but I found a
trick that helps. To comprehend what $1 billion really is, take your annual
earnings in dollars and divide it into 1 billion. The answer is the number of
years you would have to work to cumulatively earn $1 billion. For example, if
you make $75,000 dollars a year (near the national median), you would have to
work somewhat more than 13,000 years to earn $1 billion. In order to earn $700
billion, however, you would have to continue working for more than 9 million
years. Does that help to put the scale of the rescue plan in perspective?

Peter Stauffer, Palo Alto

I, probably like most Americans, have no idea whether the Bush administration
$700 billion rescue plan is a good idea. But why should we believe them? They
have been wrong in everything else having to do with this crisis.

Fourteen months ago when the mortgage mess first started to come to public
attention the Bush Administration and their apologists promised that the problem
was minor and would have little effect on the country. During the 3 or 4 years
leading to the crisis these anti-regulation zealots refused to even consider
that the new system of subprime mortgages and the packaging them as an
investment commodity might cause problems.

And yes, this is the same outfit that 7 years ago was telling the public that
the federal government was not a sufficiently good steward of our Social
Security Accounts. Instead, according to Bush and his cronies we should have
thrown away our Social Security money in the markets.

John Mitchem, San Jose

President Bush was remarkably absent from trying to calm the markets last week.
Now he and his Treasury Secretary Henry . Paulson are asking we the people
(taxpayers) to bail out their buddies on Wall Street. Can we finally throw out
the window the myth that Republicans are the party fiscal restraint? No recent
Republican administration has produced a balanced budget. Can't we agree that
cutting taxes and increasing spending does not work? How is that Republican
mantra of deregulation of the financial markets working? Oh you need $700
billion? Sure I can toil here in the middle class all my life and you can create
more debt for me to pay off. John McCain has been a cheerleader for all of this;
we need a big change now.

Jon Griffith, Mountain View

I urge you in the strongest possible terms to focus your attention on providing
relief to individual homeowners, rather than the financial institutions whose
actions created the current crisis. Unless the current mortgage default epidemic
is reversed, the economy will only go from bad to worse and any bailout effort
will just be throwing good money after bad. Be assured that people are closely
watching how our elected representatives respond to the current crisis. Don't
allow yourself to be stampeded into yet another Bush administration disaster.

Gary Duggan, Morgan Hill

I think I finally understand why proponents of Proposition 8 honestly feel
they're right to fight for "traditional marriage". Stick the pleasant-sounding,
high-minded word "traditional" in front of anything, and it starts sounding
righteous. But denying a group of people equal rights by using a pretty word
like "traditional" is still wrong. Would putting "traditional" in front of
"slavery" or "male-only voting" have made them legitimate? Some things, such as
denying equal rights, are still wrong, regardless of how "traditional" they are.

Vote NO on Proposition 8.

Barbara Langworthy, San Jose

To give the present administration, who has done virtually everything wrong
during the last eight years, 700 billion dollars to spend as they wish to solve
the current financial crisis is insane. Remember that authorization they gave
the president seven years ago?

Jim Carlisle, Cupertino

Congratulations and thank you Irene Dalis, David Rohrbaugh and Larry Hancock,
the magnificent Three Tenants of the Opera San Jose for your 25 years of the
most spectacular sounds of opera, music, voices, staging, choreography and
performances in the Bay Area.

I nominate Irene Dallis for the title of San Jose's Ambassador of Arts for
enriching our cultural life and for establishing and sharing with us a world
class opera in the heart of Silicon Valley.

Bravo and Encore!

Lina Broydo, Los Altos Hills

While the Mayor of San Jose is to be commended for focusing attention on the
escalating gang problem in San Jose, an apprehension arises as to who
constitutes the task force that will be charged with grappling with the "updated
strategy". Will these be the same people who seem to rotate from one task force
to another, same faces, often regular bureaucrats with great intentions but with
few new ideas? When the new task force is organized there should be disclosure
to the public not only of the names on the task force but also their
qualifications for serving. Otherwise, it will just be history repeating itself
with planned organization, many meetings and little measurable progress.

Vilma Kennedy Pallette, San Jose

Robert Leeds (Letters, Sept. 21) blames anti-regulation conservatives for the
current meltdown as he asks, "... where have all the laissez-faire capitalists
gone?" We are here, Robert, and we blame our nation's economic woes on the 1995
versions of the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) regulations implemented by the
liberals in the Clinton Administration. Just go to the websites of the 4
separate federal agencies that enforce the CRA. You'll see that left-wing
regulators, since 1995, actively forced banks, S&Ls, and other mortgage
originators to proactively lend money to people at the bottom end of the
economic ladder   you know, people who could not afford to repay the loan and in
many cases had no verifiable income, all in the name of advancing a political
agenda of "affordable housing". These loans were made solely because of
regulations (no business reason). The free market would have worked if only we
had let it.

Phil Palmintere, Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

Ellis Island adding histories of Indians, slaves, new arrivals

BYLINE: By Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Travel; Lifestyle

LENGTH: 422 words


NEW YORK   Ellis Island is expanding its story of U.S. immigration history,
including for the first time American Indians and African slaves. Modern-day
arrivals also will be added.

A new center being created within the Ellis Island Immigration Museum will tell
the history of arrivals both before and after the peak immigration era in the
United States of 1892 to 1954, the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation and
U.S. Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne said Wednesday.

The story of the migration to America "goes back to the beginning of the country
and comes up to the present. So there were a good number of people whose stories
weren't told at Ellis Island," said Stephen Briganti, the foundation's president
and chief executive.

The center, he said, will "cover the entire gamut of the populating of America."

Exhibits will include American Indians, Africans brought here forcibly by slave
traders, Europeans who landed on the Eastern seaboard from the 1600s through
1892 and today's immigrants from around the globe.

"It's an important story to tell because Ellis Island is a symbol of inclusion,
it's a symbol of diversity and that's what this country is," Briganti said.

Although the new exhibition will touch on the story of illegal immigrants, it
will keep its focus on citizenship, an emphasis that was underscored on
Wednesday when a dozen men and women, most of them in the armed forces, were
sworn in as citizens after the expansion announcement.

Franck Dorval, 36, was among them. He arrived from Haiti two years ago, he said,
and worked in restaurants in New Rochelle, N.Y., before enlisting in the Army.

"The best way to give the country something back is to serve the people," Dorval
said, though he allowed that education benefits were another inducement. As to
why he had applied for citizenship, he said he hoped it would open doors in the
Army. "If you want a career, if you want a promotion, you need to be a U.S.
citizen," he said. An hour after saying that, he was.

When the Peopling of America Center is completed in 2011, the full museum will
be renamed Ellis Island: The National Museum of Immigration.

Interactive exhibits will trace how waves of immigration changed American towns
and will allow visitors to trace their family's history.

The $20 million, 20,000-square-foot center, designed by Edwin Schlossberg of ESI
Design, will use space that had been an existing gallery and an adjoining
building used by museum staff.

Briganti said the foundation has met more than 75 percent of its fundraising
goal.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 27, 2008 Saturday

Immigrants get 'a better test' for U.S. citizenship

BYLINE: By John Woolfolk Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 835 words


Quick, fellow citizens, what are the colors of our national flag? OK, what color
are its stars? How about this: Name the form immigrants fill out to apply for
U.S. citizenship. Anyone? What, you never heard of Form N-400?

For years, scholars, historians and policy makers have mocked the inane
questions on the naturalization examination that immigrants must pass to gain
U.S. citizenship, arguing that it tested trivia and minted new Americans who
lacked meaningful knowledge about their adopted country's history and
governance.

But that's set to change Wednesday, when U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services rolls out a redesigned naturalization exam.

"We're trying to encourage civic learning and attachment," Alfonso Aguilar,
chief of the Office of Citizenship, said in an interview during a stop in San
Francisco. "The test is not harder. It's just a better test. It follows a basic
U.S. history and civics curriculum. It's more on concepts than on rote
memorization."

The current test was developed in 1986, but without guidance from scholars or
historians. And it wasn't always administered consistently: Immigrants in some
cities were given multiple-choice answers, while others had to recite from
memory.

The redesign began in 2000 and involved help from test development contractors,
the National Academy of Sciences, a panel of history and U.S. government
scholars, and English-as-a-second-language experts.

Gone are such oft-ridiculed questions as the one about the citizenship form.
Replacing them are questions aimed at basic concepts in American governance,
such as "What is the rule of law?" or "What are two rights of everyone living in
the United States?"

"If you don't understand those ideals," asked the Puerto Rico-born Aguilar, "how
American are you?"

Other questions require a fuller understanding of the people and events that
shaped American history. So rather than asking "Who was president during the
Civil War?" the new test asks: "What was one important thing that Abraham
Lincoln did?"

As with the old test, applicants are given the entire list of 100 possible
questions and the answers in advance to study. When they are called in for an
interview, typically months later, they must give the correct answer in English
to at least six of 10 selected questions from that list to pass. Those who apply
for citizenship before Wednesday may choose to be tested on either the old or
new exam. After that, they must use the new one.

Joren Lyons, a staff attorney with the non-profit Asian Law Caucus in San
Francisco, which helps immigrants handle naturalization applications, worries
that some who spent years studying the old test might get stuck with the new
one. But he wasn't concerned about the new test's content.

"Our concern is having a test that's fair," Lyons said. "Their goal is to make
it more meaningful, and I think some of the questions achieve that. On paper, it
seems like a reasonable effort. We'll see how all this plays out in the field."

So which test is harder?

At the request of the Mercury News, a trio of San Jose State University students
gamely agreed to try answering 10 questions from each. Accounting major Alex
Andal, 21; pre-nursing major Julienne Baris, 19; and broadcast journalism major
Marianne Mendezona, 19, easily passed the new test.

They had little difficulty naming, say, a right from the First Amendment, a
voting right from the constitutional amendments, or one American Indian tribe.
They knew slavery was a problem that led to the Civil War and understood that
separation of powers stops one branch of government from becoming too powerful.

These are American college kids, after all, not strangers in a strange land. But
they did stumble a bit trying to recall something Benjamin Franklin is famous
for.

"Electricity?" Baris asked. "Is he on the $100 bill?" (He started the nation's
first free libraries and was a diplomat, among acceptable answers on the test.)

The old test stumped them even more.

"Pelosi?" Baris offered when asked to name one of the state's senators while her
companions sat in silence. (Nancy Pelosi is a U.S. representative from San
Francisco and speaker of the House of Representatives.)

OK, who said "Give me liberty or give me death!"

"Was it a president, or a woman?" Mendezona wondered. (Neither. It was Patrick
Henry, urging fellow Virginians in 1775 to prepare for fighting the British in
the American Revolution.)

Still, they had little trouble naming red, white and blue as the colors of the
U.S. flag or recalling that the vice president becomes president if the
president dies.

But after taking both exams, the student volunteers weren't sure the new test
was any better than the old.

"They're just different questions and different answers," Andal said.

Baris agreed some of the questions on the old exam were "kind of stupid, and
some of it was too trivial." But she and Mendezona still felt the old one
required more studying.

"It was harder," Baris said.

Contact John Woolfolk at jwoolfolk@mercurynews.com or (408) 975-9346.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 29, 2008 Monday

More than 1,100 arrested throughout California in immigration raids

BYLINE: By Denis C. Theriault Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
Crime; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 753 words


Billing a series of raids as the largest sweep of its kind in California,
federal immigration authorities Monday announced more than 1,100 arrests
throughout the state this month, part of a three-week effort that saw teams from
San Jose and beyond knocking on doors in search of fugitive immigrants.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers arrested 1,157 men and women
436 in Northern California   in the latest splash in a five-year push targeting
immigrants who have ignored deportation orders or returned to the United States
illegally after being deported. The sweep, which concluded Saturday, also
produced 420 arrests in the Los Angeles area and 301 in the San Diego area.
Those arrested came from 34 countries.

And although ICE officials hailed the sweep as a success, particularly because
of the number of arrests, they said it was only the scale of the effort that was
remarkable.

"This is something we do on a daily basis," said Craig Meyer, ICE's assistant
field office director in San Francisco. "This was just a big surge to get as
many boots on the ground as we could."

Teams from Northern and Southern California worked together to rove the state,
turning up 595 immigrants with outstanding deportation orders and 346 with
criminal convictions. In Northern California, which includes the Bay Area, 185
were fugitives and 92 had criminal convictions, ranging from petty theft to more
serious crimes. A breakdown of arrests by municipality and county was not
available, Meyer said.

In one case, ICE agents apprehended a Fremont woman who had been ordered
deported after convictions for voluntary manslaughter and threatening a witness.
The onetime legal resident, whom authorities did not identify, was sent back to
her native Portugal shortly after her arrest, officials said.

Many of those arrested did not have criminal backgrounds. But it is ICE policy
to check the residency status of everyone inside targeted residences. In this
month's operation, that meant scores of illegal immigrants without deportation
orders or criminal convictions were also taken into custody.

The sweep marked the first large-scale operation for ICE's months-old San Jose
team, one of a handful added this year in California, as ICE continues its
five-year crackdown against immigrants who ignore deportation orders. In
patrolling Northern California, it joins two teams in San Francisco and one each
in Sacramento, Fresno and Bakersfield.

"It spreads us out a little more, gives us a little more reach," Meyer said of
the new South Bay crew. "They know the area better and they can get out there
quicker and be on the ground more often."

Nationwide, there are now 95 teams in operation, ICE officials said, with more
than 100 expected by the end of the year. In 2003, when ICE's Fugitive
Operations Program was created, only 17 teams were in place.

That expansion, along with the establishment of a federal investigation center
in Vermont, has led to a surge in arrests. Last year there were 30,407 arrests
nationwide, nearly double the year before. This year, ICE agents are well on
their way to topping that number, with 26,945 arrests logged as of Aug. 1.

The crackdown has continued to cut into the number of immigrants nationwide who
have standing deportation orders. In 2007, for the first time, the suspected
number of fugitive immigrants in the United States declined. The backlog is now
down to fewer than 560,000, about 34,000 fewer than on Oct. 1, 2007.

But for Basil Robledo, director of programs for the Services, Immigrant Rights
and Education Network (SIREN) in San Jose, the latest arrests are one more step
on a disturbing path following last year's failure by Congress to reform the
nation's immigration laws.

He said federal officials have instead turned to heavy-handed enforcement   a
strategy that Robledo says has led to fear, confusion and broken families.

"It is a scary situation for folks in the community," he said. "People keep
their kids home from school. It creates less of a willingness to talk to police.
They see ICE agents and they see a uniformed person, and that blends into all of
law enforcement."

Meyer acknowledged the complaints his agency receives, particularly those
concerning children and families, and took care to rebuff them, stressing that
"when children are involved, we're very careful with that."

Still, he said, "these are the laws that are in place. And we're just following
through, doing our job."

Contact Denis C. Theriault at dtheriault@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5035.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 30, 2008 Thursday

Neglected issues on the campaign trail will confront the next president

BYLINE: By Frank Davies Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 834 words


WASHINGTON   Soon after he becomes president, Barack Obama or John McCain will
face tough decisions on immigration, climate change, the detention and
interrogation of suspected terrorists, and a host of other issues.

But with few exceptions, those issues have been off the radar screen of the
presidential campaign. You can find some details on the candidates' positions on
their Web sites. Just don't expect to hear much about them in the waning days of
the race.

It's the economy

With the economic downturn dominating all else, the candidates for weeks have
been reluctant to talk about difficult, complex questions like how to deal with
12 million undocumented immigrants, or how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
without disrupting a teetering economy.

"Immigration is a complicated, emotional issue, and you lose voters whatever you
say," said Audrey Singer, who studies the issue at the Brookings Institution.
There's a "fact-free zone around immigration" at this point in the campaign, she
said.

Even though Obama and McCain both support a comprehensive plan that would
provide a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, they say little about
it except in Spanish-language ads in which they blame each other for the demise
of an immigration bill last year.

Immigration legislation may be difficult to revive, but the next president must
deal with a detention system for immigrants that has been criticized for abuses,
and he will have to decide whether to continue controversial workplace raids
around the country.

'Serious problems'

"We have serious problems, and we need better administration of that system,"
said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the San Jose Democrat who chairs the House immigration
subcommittee. "We have too many people in custody who don't need to be in
custody."

On climate change, both candidates in principle favor a complex cap and trade
system that would limit greenhouse gas emissions from all sources and set up a
market in pollution credits that would encourage utilities, for example, to
switch to renewable sources of energy.

This year the Senate backed away from a comprehensive bill to tackle climate
change, and the Bush administration has opposed mandatory controls. But
advocates on climate change say the issue is still urgent.

"The economy has swallowed everything in the campaign, and it's naïve to think
that any other issue will get marquee billing," said Tony Kreindler of the
Environmental Defense Fund.

Obama and McCain have plans to boost investment in renewable fuels, but they shy
away from commitments on a timetable to enact emissions controls. One
environmental group, 350.org , has gathered 40,000 signatures on a petition
urging the next president to attend a U.N. meeting in December in Poland to lay
the groundwork for an international treaty.

Neither candidate has made such a commitment, said Jamie Henn, spokesman for the
organization.

Interrogation issue

Another issue that received lots of attention in the past four years, but not
much on the campaign trail, is how to detain and interrogate suspects in the war
on terror. The Bush administration greatly expanded executive powers in this
area by setting up secret detention centers, seeking to eliminate prisoners'
rights and allowing treatment regarded as torture under international law.

Both candidates have deplored torture, but McCain went along with Bush's plans
to severely limit detainees' rights. McCain and Obama have pledged to close the
Guantanamo prison, but have not been specific on what they would do with several
hundred prisoners held there.

"I'm disappointed but not surprised that these issues have not been aired in the
campaign," said Michael Posner, president of Human Rights First. He favors a
"9/11-style commission" to investigate the decisions and practices of the Bush
administration, but neither candidate has agreed to that idea.

High court

One big decision the next president will likely make is to appoint at least one
new justice to the Supreme Court. That decision could tip the balance on a court
closely divided on abortion rights and other controversies.

Both candidates have mentioned the importance of that decision, and the subject
came up at the final debate, but polls show it registers low on the concerns of
most voters.

David Van Taylor, a filmmaker, said voters should be paying more attention to
the high court. His documentary on how confirmation battles were waged over John
Roberts, Harriet Miers and Samuel Alito, titled "Advise & Dissent," will be
released next year, but he gave a preview showing last week in Washington.

"The message is clear," he told several hundred viewers. "Elections matter. Your
vote really counts on what kind of court you get."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

Both campaigns have position papers on immigration, climate change and other
issues. Check www.barackobama.com and www.johnmccain.com . Another site,
www.procon.org ., shows candidates' views on a wide variety of issues.

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday

Liberal judges risk our safety

BYLINE: From the readers of the Mercury News

SECTION: LETTERS; Opinion

LENGTH: 606 words


Liberal judges

risk our safety

Gun owners were backed into a corner, they came out swinging and they won.
What's frightening about the Supreme Court's long overdue decision on individual
gun owners' rights isn't the Mercury News' lament (Editorial, June 27) that it
came to trial, one can expect that from a leftist rag, but rather that there are
four limousine liberal maniacs in black robes who would think nothing of leaving
us at the mercy of an armed and dangerous criminal element. We can all sleep
better now knowing that our safety isn't in the hands of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, et
al.

Bob Churchill
San Jose

Now, let's enforce

immigration laws

For the last two weeks or so, I have been bombarded with reminders that on July
1 the first "hands-free" cell phone law will go into effect, and that this law
will be enforced. Yet our immigration system is tattered, with those laws
oftentimes being flagrantly broken by many of our elected officials as well as
much of our populace. Isn't it time that we enforce our immigration laws? I
think that they are much more important than a set of cell phone restrictions.

Steve Kalman
San Jose

Pay-to-play politics

is just priceless

The cost of change? Changing your position on campaign finance when it better
suites your needs: $200 million-plus. Buying off a political adversary to become
a political ally: $10 million to $11 million. Buying your way to become the
politician of change: priceless.

Jon Hoefling
Morgan Hill

The WMD that

has hit Zimbabwe

When you consider the crimes against humanity perpetrated by Robert Mugabe
against the people of Zimbabwe, it makes Uganda's former dictator, Idi Amin,
appear, in retrospect, as a benevolent despot. Stretching a metaphor just a bit,
you can characterize Mugabe's devastation of his country. Once hailed as the
bread basket of Africa, now a pathetic basket case. Doesn't that make him a
weapon of mass destruction?

Rev. Dennis Kuby
Berkeley

U.S. carriers offer

grumpy service

John Boudreau's article (Page 1A, June 27) on the differences between Asian and
American airline customer service was spot on. I fly to Asia four times a year,
generally choose Eva Air or JAL, but won't consider an American carrier at all.
I speak with dozens of people every year doing the same, and we all agree that
grumpy American flight attendants are the main reason we've chosen to fly
Asia-based airlines. Even in the coach section, Asian flight attendants are
smiling, accommodating, and do their best to make our long flight pleasurable.
The friendly ambience between flight attendants and passengers is something we
no longer encounter on U.S.-carrier international flights. Until such time as
the American carriers "get it," thousands of us will continue voting with our
wallets.

Geoff Alexander
San Jose

Students should

test into 9th grade

Russell W. Rumberger (Opinion, June 26) makes some good points. Let me suggest
one more. After teaching high school English for 35 years, it has become
painfully obvious to me that too many students "graduate" from middle school and
enter ninth grade unprepared and with poor reading and/or math skills. What is
desperately needed is a statewide exit exam for all eighth-grade students that
they must pass with minimum proficiency before they may enter ninth grade. High
schools have the almost impossible task of bringing students to high school exit
exam competency when students are allowed to enter ninth grade with only fifth-
or sixth-grade reading and/or math skills. Let's retain those students in middle
school and give them the extra help they need to be better prepared to succeed
in high school - and beyond.

John Turner
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 9, 2007 Friday

Turning away talent can only hurt Silicon Valley's future

BYLINE: By Andres Martinez

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Business; High-Tech; Opinion; Science and Tech; Columnists

LENGTH: 947 words


On the same week last month that the European Union unveiled its new, no-hassle
"blue card" program to attract highly skilled migrant workers, the U.S. Senate
voted to hike employer fees for H-1B visas to $5,000. H-1B visas allow U.S.
employers to bring foreign talent into the work force. It was a telling
coincidence, demonstrating that as the rest of the world is becoming more
welcoming of skilled immigrants who fuel innovation, the United States, mired in
its know-nothing Lou Dobbsian nativism, is turning its back on one of its great
competitive advantages: its historic knack for playing the role of host to the
world's most creative tinkerers.

For the nation, and for California, turning away gifted computer scientists and
engineers to more welcoming jurisdictions could prove devastating. According to
a recent study by the National Venture Capital Association, over the past 15
years foreign nationals have started one-quarter of U.S. venture-backed public
companies. These are companies that generate about $130 billion in annual
revenue and that employ hundreds of thousands of Americans. Within California
alone, foreign-born entrepreneurs played a key role in founding Intel, eBay,
Yahoo, Sun Microsystems and Google.

The H-1B fee hike is a mere nuisance compared with the scarcity of such visas
for needed workers. Congress has set the number of these three-year visas at an
arbitrarily low 65,000 a year. In April of this year, the first day companies
could apply for the visas for fiscal 2008 (which started Oct. 1), the government
was swamped with 133,000 applications. That means a lot of high-tech innovators
will go to work elsewhere. Earlier this year, Microsoft expanded a
research-and-development center in Vancouver, British Columbia, and it cited the
dysfunctional U.S. immigration system as one reason to go to Canada, which is
eager to attract, rather than harass, foreign talent.

In congressional testimony last June on the visa shortfall, Google's vice
president of "people operations," Laszlo Bock, said the company had failed to
get visas for 70 engineers. Some of these individuals, who should be innovating
in California, are now parked at Google campuses in Switzerland or Britain.

Does it really make sense to ban from the United States engineers whom Google
has determined it needs to continue revolutionizing the Web? It isn't as if U.S.
workers are victimized by the addition of outstanding foreign workers. Google
has hired thousands of people this year alone, and only 8 percent of its U.S.
work force is here on a visa. Moreover, the innovations resulting from bringing
the world's best and brightest together in Silicon Valley lead directly to the
creation of more jobs for U.S. workers.

Orkut Buyukkokten, a Stanford University-trained computer scientist from Turkey
who obtained his H-1B in 2002, was cited as a case in point by Bock.
Buyukkokten's first name is now a brand, the name of a popular social-networking
service. He is just one of many foreign computer scientists who have led to the
company's explosive growth.

Google will be fine, even if CNN pundit Lou Dobbs is elected president and all
of the company's innovation takes place overseas, but I worry about California's
future if overly restrictive immigration policies become the long-term norm. And
it isn't only the corporate icons that could be jeopardized, but the state's
vaunted research universities as well.

The symbiotic relationship among such places as the University of
California-Berkeley, Stanford and high-tech start-ups is widely understood -
from the Hewlett-Packard era to our own Google age. But a key reason for that
harmonic relationship has been Silicon Valley's accessibility to the world's
best and brightest. If high-tech start-ups start favoring more welcoming places
such as Australia, Canada or even Europe, their universities likely will benefit
at U.S. universities' expense.

In 2005, two-thirds of U.S. electrical-engineering doctoral students and half of
computer-science doctoral students were foreign-born. Even if we could remain an
educational magnet while closing the door to highly skilled foreign workers,
would it really make sense to continue investing in the education of these great
minds, only to see the fruits of their labor enrich more welcoming
jurisdictions? The number of jobs in the United States for computer software
engineers is expected to reach 450,000 by 2014, according to the government, and
there is no way all these jobs will be filled solely by graduates - foreign- or
native-born - of universities in the United States.

The problems created by an unrealistically low number of H-1B visas are
compounded by the notorious backlog for permanent-residency green cards, the
alternative for foreigners who want to become U.S. workers. Green-card
applications (and lives) remain in limbo for more than five years. (Europe aims
to process its blue-card applications within months.) The overall system screams
"we don't want you here" to talented workers whom the country in fact needs.

As in the case of the low-skilled agricultural work force also crucial to this
state, most members of Congress know that it is urgent to secure the supply of
needed computer scientists and engineers. But in the aftermath of the collapse
of comprehensive immigration reform this year, and the attending anti-immigrant
hysteria, our representatives seem too paralyzed to do what the rest of the
world knows to make sense, which is to try harder to woo those who will be
creating the Intels, eBays and Googles of tomorrow.

ANDRES MARTINEZ, former editor of the Los Angeles Times' editorial page, is a
senior fellow at the New America Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday

AGENDA 2008 | TECHNOLOGY

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Editorials; Science and Tech; Opinion; High-Tech; Business;
Technology

LENGTH: 727 words


It was hardly a groundbreaking year for technology policy and the American
innovation agenda.

In 2007, tech-related issues - other than clean energy and the environment -
received relatively little attention and action in the nation's capital. Major
issues remain on the to-do list for 2008. Here are some of the tech and
competitiveness issues that policy-makers should address this year:

Worker visas: Congress should try again to sharply expand the H-1B visa program
for much-needed foreign skilled workers. After the collapse of a broad
immigration bill in the Senate in June, Congress this year should advance a
separate bill focused on skilled workers.

American tech companies can't hire enough first-rate engineers and scientists to
meet the nation's needs. The U.S. caps the number of H-1B visas at 65,000 a
year, an allotment typically exhausted in a single day. The limit should be
doubled.

The number of permanent residence cards, or green cards, also should be
increased.

Opening the door to technical professionals is key to keeping the United States
competitive with fast-rising economies such as China and India. In many areas of
math, science and engineering, at least half of the post-graduate degrees at
U.S. universities are earned by foreign nationals. It makes no sense for the
United States to educate foreign scientists and engineers and then send them
home to compete against American tech companies.

Patent reform: Congress should move ahead with overhauling the U.S. patent
system. The House in September voted to approve long-discussed patent reforms.
The Senate Judiciary Committee in July passed similar legislation that now
awaits action by the full Senate.

The United States needs to improve patent quality, rein in litigation abuses and
modernize a patent system that hasn't been substantially updated in five
decades.

Congress still needs to hammer out consensus on the contentious issue of how
courts should value damage awards when infringement is found. Other changes
proposed in the legislation make sense, such as tighter rules on where patent
lawsuits can be filed and creation of an administrative process for deciding
some patent challenges.

A modern and fair patent system will spur innovation, keeping the United States
a world leader in technology.

Wireless broadband: Internet and cell phone users should gain more freedom and
choice as a coveted swath of airwaves is sold in coming weeks. The Federal
Communications Commission begins auctioning chunks of 700 megahertz spectrum on
Jan. 24.

The airwaves being sold are ideal for offering new types of Internet services.
Consumers can expect more competition, innovation and lower prices, as well as a
major step forward for the mobile Internet.

Two hundred sixty-six companies have applied to bid, including Google, Verizon
Wireless, AT&T, oil company Chevron and a venture led by Microsoft co-founder
Paul Allen. The auction is expected to fetch at least $15 billion for the
government.

The sale promises to loosen the grip that giant cell phone companies have over
the phones and services customers now use. A major chunk of the airwaves being
sold must be operated under FCC open-access rules requiring that the network be
accessible to any device and application.

The FCC must ensure that the open access rules are vigorously enforced and that
the cell phone giants, if they are auction winners, truly open up their
networks.

Online privacy: Internet sites can track and analyze our every mouse click. That
leaves consumers increasingly exposed to potentially invasive, targeted
advertising.

Privacy was a big issue in 2007. Social networking site Facebook had to
apologize and boost privacy safeguards after one of its advertising programs
publicized users' online purchases - without consent - to their friends on the
Facebook network. Google's acquisition of online ad firm DoubleClick, which won
Federal Trade Commission approval, was opposed by privacy advocates who said the
merger will create a data collection colossus that threatens consumer privacy.

The FTC, Congress and other policy-makers should determine if stronger privacy
protections are needed in the Internet age. Policy-makers should look at rules
for ensuring that consumers are better informed about data collection and online
marketing practices and are given greater controls over their personal
information.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday

Companies make another push to expand H-1B visa program

BYLINE: By Frank Davies Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; News; Breaking

LENGTH: 713 words


WASHINGTON - Oracle, Microsoft and other tech companies, joined by business
leaders in New York and Washington, are making a new push for an increase in
visas for skilled workers. But they conceded Thursday they face difficult odds
in Congress.

Robert Hoffman, an Oracle vice president, predicted that applications for next
Tuesday's H-1B visa lottery will quickly exceed the 65,000 available slots, with
winners determined by a random process that ignores market needs and economic
benefits.

Last year, the 65,000 cap was reached on the first day of applications.

Under this "surreal system," Hoffman said, a fashion model (the next Heidi Klum)
will have the same chance at a visa as a tech entrepreneur (the next Andy Grove)
who generates jobs.

Hoffman said he hoped Congress would double the current cap.

Barring that, he also proposed legislators free up unused visas from previous
years. For instance, during the 2001-02 recession, after the tech boom fizzled,
the total of unused H1-B visas grew to about 300,000.

But that's not likely this year, despite an impassioned plea from Bill Gates two
weeks ago and persistent lobbying by many businesses. After the collapse of a
comprehensive immigration bill last year, Congress has been reluctant to do
anything on immigration except to tighten border and workplace enforcement.

"If you could isolate a vote on this one issue (more visas for skilled workers),
it would get through," said Victor Johnson, senior adviser to the Association of
International Educators. But with many groups "screaming about immigration," the
reaction of many members of Congress is, "Not right now."

Business and academic leaders, at a briefing hosted by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said they would look for opportunities on Capitol Hill to get what
Hoffman called "short-term relief" on visas and a backlog of green card
applications. But he said he was frustrated at the "all-or-nothing message we're
hearing from Congress."

While an increase in visas has support in Congress, some members, such as Sens.
Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, and Dick Durbin, D-Ill., have focused on past abuses
by job brokers who have misused the H-1B visa system to bypass U.S. workers and
bring in foreign workers for lower wages.

The Programmers Guild, an advocacy group for U.S. computer programmers, has
argued that the skilled-worker visa system has not protected the rights of U.S.
workers. The group did agree with Hoffman and Gates that the lottery system
should reward U.S. firms that create jobs in the United States.

h Large tech employers contend that the low visa cap forces them to outsource
some jobs and operations. Hoffman said that Oracle had about 75 percent of its
H-1B visa applications granted. Of the remaining applicants, about half were
relocated overseas and half were let go.

Angelo Amador, director of immigration policy for the Chamber of Commerce, said
that "many manufacturers don't want to play the lottery, so they move as many
people abroad as they can."

A new study by the National Foundation for American Policy, a nonpartisan group
that conducts research on trade and immigration, found that H-1B visa-holders
are not displacing U.S. workers and their firms are growing overall. "For every
H-1B position requested, U.S. tech companies increase their employment by five
workers," the study found.

The study cited the example of Sonnet Technologies, based in Irvine, which hired
an H-1B applicant from Japan who helped develop the Japanese market for the
company's products, resulting in the hiring of 10 more production personnel.

Thursday's briefing was designed to show that the skilled-visa issue is not just
the concern of tech companies. Officials with the National Association of
Manufacturers, a powerful lobbying force in Washington, and the Partnership for
New York City - a group of corporate and investment leaders - said the limits on
visas were hampering business growth.

California ranks first among H-1B visas, with 18.2 percent of the total in 2006,
and the New York tri-state area accounted for 21 percent of the visas, with many
going to small employers needing foreign talent to connect with global markets,
said Diana Torres, a vice president of the Partnership.

Frank Davies can be reached at fdavies@mercurynews.com or 202-662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2008 Friday

Tech firms make new push for H-1B visas

BYLINE: By Frank Davies Mercury News

SECTION: SCIENCE AND TECH; High-Tech; Business; Technology

LENGTH: 714 words


WASHINGTON - Oracle, Microsoft and other tech companies, joined by business
leaders in New York and Washington, are making a new push for an increase in
visas for skilled workers. But they conceded Thursday they face difficult odds
in Congress.

Robert Hoffman, an Oracle vice president, predicted that applications for next
Tuesday's H-1B visa lottery will quickly exceed the 65,000 available slots, with
winners determined by a random process that ignores market needs and economic
benefits.

Last year, the 65,000 cap was reached on the first day of applications.

Under this "surreal system," Hoffman said, a fashion model (the next Heidi Klum)
will have the same chance at a visa as a tech entrepreneur (the next Andy Grove)
who generates jobs.

Hoffman said he hoped Congress would double the current cap.

Barring that, he also proposed that legislators free up unused visas from
previous years. For instance, during the 2001-02 recession, after the tech boom
fizzled, the total of unused H-1B visas grew to about 300,000.

But that's not likely this year, despite an impassioned plea from Bill Gates two
weeks ago and persistent lobbying by many businesses. After the collapse of a
comprehensive immigration bill last year, Congress has been reluctant to do
anything on immigration except to tighten border and workplace enforcement.

"If you could isolate a vote on this one issue (more visas for skilled workers),
it would get through," said Victor Johnson, senior adviser to the Association of
International Educators. But with many groups "screaming about immigration," the
reaction of many members of Congress is, "Not right now."

Business and academic leaders, at a briefing hosted by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said they would look for opportunities on Capitol Hill to get what
Hoffman called "short-term relief" on visas and a backlog of green card
applications. But he said he was frustrated at the "all-or-nothing message we're
hearing from Congress."

While an increase in visas has support in Congress, some members, such as Sens.
Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, and Dick Durbin, D-Ill., have focused on past abuses
by job brokers who have misused the H-1B visa system to bypass U.S. workers and
bring in foreign workers for lower wages.

The Programmers Guild, an advocacy group for U.S. computer programmers, has
argued that the skilled-worker visa system has not protected the rights of U.S.
workers. The group did agree with Hoffman and Gates that the lottery system
should reward U.S. firms that create jobs in the United States.

Large tech employers contend that the low visa cap forces them to outsource some
jobs and operations. Hoffman said about 75 percent of Oracle's H-1B visa
applications were granted. Of the remaining applicants, about half were
relocated overseas and half were let go.

Angelo Amador, director of immigration policy for the Chamber of Commerce, said
that "many manufacturers don't want to play the lottery, so they move as many
people abroad as they can."

A new study by the National Foundation for American Policy, a non-partisan group
that conducts research on trade and immigration, found that H-1B visa holders
are not displacing U.S. workers and those companies are growing overall. "For
every H-1B position requested, U.S. tech companies increase their employment by
five workers," the study found.

The study cited the example of Sonnet Technologies, based in Irvine, which hired
an H-1B applicant from Japan who helped develop the Japanese market for the
company's products, resulting in the hiring of 10 more production personnel.

Thursday's briefing was designed to show that the skilled-visa issue is not just
the concern of tech companies. Officials with the National Association of
Manufacturers, a powerful lobbying force in Washington, and the Partnership for
New York City - a group of corporate and investment leaders - said the limits on
visas were hampering business growth.

California ranks first among H-1B visas, with 18.2 percent of the total in 2006,
and the New York tri-state area accounted for 21 percent of the visas, with many
going to small employers needing foreign talent to connect with global markets,
said Diana Torres, a vice president of the partnership.

Frank Davies can be reached at fdavies@mercurynews.com or 202-662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 31, 2008 Monday

Editorial: H-1B reforms must better serve U.S. economy

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Editorials; Science and Tech; Opinion; High-Tech; Business;
Technology

LENGTH: 296 words


How apt that U.S. employers will scramble to submit their H-1B visa applications
for the year on April Fools' Day. Expect another feeding frenzy like last year,
when the whole 65,000 allotment was exhausted in a single day and the final
selection had to be determined by lottery.

We'll say it again: Congress must expand and overhaul the H-1B visa program,
which is vital to Silicon Valley.

American tech companies can't hire enough top-notch engineers and scientists to
meet their needs. Increasing the number of temporary visas would be a good
start, but it's also important to close loopholes that put American workers at a
disadvantage and enable foreign outsourcing firms to dominate the program.

Unfortunately, this is an immigration issue, and in this election year much of
Congress will be grandstanding on tough enforcement. But there's a glimmer of
progress. Earlier this month, Republican Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas proposed
tripling the 65,000 H-1B cap, while Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, an Arizona
Democrat, introduced a bill doubling it.

The program does need real reform, however. Indian outsourcing firms snagged 80
percent of the visas last year; they should be limited to American-based
employers. We need more safeguards against fraud and more protections for
American workers, such as ensuring that prevailing wages aren't undercut.

In many areas of math, science and engineering, at least half of post-graduate
degrees at U.S. universities are earned by foreign nationals. As it is, we
invest in their training and then send them back home to compete with us. We
shouldn't close the doors to the Andy Groves and Sergei Brins of the future.

H-1B visas must better serve American companies and workers. Until Congress
acts, the system will continue to fail on both counts.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday

Day workers' safety focus of workshop

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 334 words


About 70 Bay Area day laborers gathered Friday in Mountain View for a workshop
on workplace safety, part of a national campaign to train and educate immigrant
workers who find employment day by day.

Worried about the high rate of work-related injuries among day laborers, the
National Day Laborer Organizing Network sponsored the workshop.

The church hall at Trinity United Methodist Church near downtown Mountain View,
was converted into a training room, strewed with ladders, a chain saw and
plastic bottles of cleaning fluids. During the training sessions, workers
learned how to inspect and secure a ladder properly, use masks when dealing with
vapors, smoke and dust, and how to clean safely with chemicals.

"Many of us are here to work so our health is very important," said Esmeralda
Montufar, an immigrant from Guerrero, Mexico. "If we get hurt, it will affect
our families."

Montufar, 34, cleans houses in Graton, an unincorporated town in Sonoma County.

Day workers from Mountain View, Oakland and San Francisco also participated in
the training.

Maria Marroquin, executive director of the the Day Worker Center of Mountain
View, urged the workshop participants "not to take any shortcuts and don't be
under pressure to get your work done fast."

Veronica Federovsky, an organizer for the National Day Laborer group, cited
studies from the University of California-Los Angeles and the University of
Illinois-Chicago, which found that 20 percent of day laborers have been injured
while working in dangerous conditions, and without food or water.

The training, Federovsky said, will allow workers to take precautionary steps
and learn how to protect themselves. Other training sessions will be conducted
at day-laborer centers in Northern California.

"We want people to know that day workers are fathers and mothers with families
who love them," Marroquin said. "They deserve all the protection on the job that
every worker should have."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman atjmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
