
                               1 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 4, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 REPLACEMENT IN WORKS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Supporters of Proposition 187 have taken their first formal step to place a
similar anti-illegal immigration measure on California's November 2000 ballot.

The new proposal would bar the Legislature from approving new laws providing
benefits to illegal immigrants.

It would also require law enforcement to check the citizenship of every person
arrested and require all state agencies involved in dispensing public aid to
verify the identity and eligibility of applicants for benefits.

Gov. Gray Davis' spokesman said Wednesday he was "baffled" by the effort to
revive Proposition 187 -- the voter-approved initiative that he said was
needlessly divisive and fully laid to rest earlier this year.

A committee known as Save Our State asked Attorney General Bill Lockyer on
Tuesday to issue an official title and summary for the proposed constitutional
amendment.

Once he does so -- likely in late December -- proponents can begin gathering the
670,816 voter signatures needed to place the measure on next fall's ballot.

California voters approved Proposition 187 in 1994 with nearly 60 percent of the
vote, but federal courts declared most of it unconstitutional.

Instead of pursuing an appeal of the lower court rulings, Gov. Gray Davis
submitted the proposal to mediation. No proponents of the measure were present
during mediation and attempts to save the initiative ended.

Proposition 187 would have barred the state from providing public services, such
as education and health care, to illegal immigrants. It also would have imposed
stiff penalties for making phony citizenship documents and directed state and
local law enforcement to cooperate with federal immigration authorities.

Federal law bars states from providing most health and welfare-type benefits to
illegal immigrants unless states specifically authorize such benefits.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 23, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE CALIFORNIA FACTOR LEGACY OF PROP. 187 HAUNTS STATE GOP '94 INITIATIVE:
NEARLY HALF OF LATINOS IN STATE REMAIN WARY.

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 1268 words


Six years after Gov. Pete Wilson and other GOP leaders spearheaded a campaign to
pass Proposition 187 to cut off benefits to illegal immigrants, almost half of
the state's Latino voters remain wary of voting for Republican candidates,
according to a Mercury News poll.

The survey of 611 Latino likely voters in California found one of the state's
most divisive initiatives still casts a shadow over state elections, even though
Republicans have vigorously wooed Latinos in recent years.

Proposition 187 became a touchstone for Latinos in California, demonstrating how
an issue that resonates with Latinos can mobilize them into a powerful voting
bloc.

Sensing opportunity, Latino and Democratic activists led one of the most massive
registration drives in California history. One-half of California's Latino
voters have registered in the past six years, according to the poll. And 67
percent of those new voters consider themselves Democrats.

Latino Democrats now outnumber Latino Republicans in California by a 4-1 ratio,
the largest in the four states that are home to 70 percent of all Latino voters.
California's Latinos make up a quarter of the national Latino electorate.

The 1994 campaign, which Wilson led, ran stark television ads showing grainy
footage of immigrants crossing the Mexican border at night, while a narrator
intoned, "They keep coming," a phrase that has since become infamous among
California Latinos.

The initiative, much of which was ruled unconstitutional in 1998 by a federal
judge, sought to end public aid to illegal immigrants -- including schooling for
their children.

For Feliciana Casilla, who moved from Mexico to Vacaville 37 years ago but only
recently became a citizen, Proposition 187 remains a sour memory that still
taints her view of Republican candidates.

The 60-year-old mother of four, a registered Democrat, is a strong supporter of
Vice President Al Gore.

The Republicans have done many injustices to Latinos, said Casilla, who spent
years working in tomato fields alongside many undocumented immigrants.

"Rather than give us a hand, they bring us down even more," she said in Spanish.

Grudge runs deep

California Latinos across the board hold a grudge against Republicans.

More than one in four Republicans and 45 percent of self-identified
conservatives said Proposition 187 would affect their ability to vote for a
Republican "a lot."

The measure remains the strongest deterrent to voting Republican for those
Latinos who registered after it was approved, who speak mostly Spanish at home
and who are foreign-born or first-generation Californians.

In the only two statewide races this November -- president and U.S. Senate --
Latinos are firmly in the Democratic corner, according to the Mercury News poll
taken from May 26 to June 15. Gore trounced Bush by 34 percentage points among
Latino voters in California, compared with 16 points nationwide. And GOP
candidate Tom Campbell got 9 percent of the vote, compared with 56 percent for
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein.

The 1994 measure shaped national politics as well.

Although Proposition 187 specifically targeted aid for illegal immigrants, its
electoral success spurred the Republican-led Congress to enact cutbacks in
welfare benefits, including food and medical, for legal immigrants nationwide.
The anti-immigrant legislation "wouldn't have happened as quickly in Washington
had it not been for how effective it was in California," said Louis DeSipio,
associate professor of political science at the University of Illinois, who has
studied Latino immigrant politics.

While these measures did not motivate Latinos nationwide as much as Proposition
187 did California Latinos, the impact is still felt. In the Mercury News poll,
Latino voters were asked to rate their confidence in congressional Republicans
and Democrats to handle 13 issues. Latinos said they have the least confidence
in Republicans for handling race and ethnic relations, just below improving
access to health care.

The fallout from Proposition 187 has stymied California Republican efforts to
capture much of the state's growing Latino electorate.

California was strongly Democratic in 1998, and Latinos even more so: 78 percent
voted for Gov. Gray Davis and 22 percent for Republican Dan Lungren. Election
night, with their party sweeping all but two statewide elected offices, the
Democrats, in an acknowledgment of the lingering damage of the GOP's position,
began to chant, "Adios, Pete Wilson."

In stark contrast to California that year, Latinos played instrumental roles in
electing Republican governors in the nation's second- and third-most populous
Latino states: George W. Bush in Texas and his brother Jeb Bush in Florida.

Appeal by George W. Bush

This presidential election season, California Republicans are banking on George
W. Bush, who has been making overt appeals to Latinos for a year, to help
reverse the trend.

Nearly 60 percent of Gore's Latino supporters in California -- overwhelmingly
Democrats -- say GOP support of the measure continues to be a major turnoff when
it comes to voting for Republicans.

But Bush has tried hard to woo these resentful voters.

He has said he would not have supported a measure similar to Proposition 187 in
Texas, and he bluntly declared earlier this month at a large Latino gathering in
Wilson's hometown of San Diego that he is not "anti-immigrant, anti-newcomer."

There are signs that Bush is overcoming some of the ill will Latinos say they
still feel against Republicans generally. Nearly one in three Latino voters
backing Bush, regardless of party, are doing so even though they said past
California GOP support for Proposition 187 strongly influenced them not to vote
for Republicans.

Rogelio Velazquez, a Democrat, said he is leaning toward voting for Bush, "even
though a lot of people think Pete Wilson was against immigrants."

The 35-year-old circuit board assembler from Santa Ana said he liked Bush's
father and thinks the Texas governor has more experience than Gore outside of
politics. Velazquez wasn't registered to vote in 1994 when Proposition 187 was
on the ballot.

"It's a California Republican thing," said R. Michael Alvarez,
associateprofessor of political science at the California Institute of
Technology and a consultant to the Mercury News on the poll. "It's not clear
that California Latinos are going to hold what California Republicans did
against a Texas governor running for president."

Although the repercussions of Proposition 187 are a factor, the poll results and
follow-up interviews show there are other reasons that Bush trails Gore among
California Latinos. A large number share Gore's support for near-universal
health care, gun control and affirmative action.

But while a wave of California Latinos has emerged that votes reliably
Democratic, there is no guarantee it will be permanent.

The most recently registered voters, who will be eligible to vote in their first
presidential election in November, are still overwhelmingly Democratic. But they
show a slight movement away from registering as Democrats to registering as
independents.

And some of those registering in the last few years say they are little
influenced by Proposition 187.

"I remember being riled up at the time because everybody was riled up," said
Margot Perez, a 21-year-old community college student from Castro Valley who
plans to vote for Gore. "It's history now."

CHART: T. TSO -- MERCURY NEWS
Prop. 187 fallout
Source: Mercury News Latino Voter Poll

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 2000
THE LATINO VOTER
RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 12A-14A, 1C
SPECIAL REPORT: A MERCURY NEWS POLL OF LATINOS
Mercury News Staff Writer Anne Martinez contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: NICK UT -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Shown in Fontana in 1994, former Gov. Pete Wilson, center, led the drive to cut
off benefits to illegal immigrants. The initiative led to a surge in Latino
voter registration that is predominantly Democratic.
[000723 FR 14A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 17, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AFL-CIO: GIVE ILLEGALS A BREAK IT BACKS AMNESTY AND NO SANCTIONS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE AND STAFF REPORT

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 915 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS


The American labor movement Wednesday called for blanket amnesty for illegal
immigrants and an end to most sanctions against employers who hire them.

In decades past, labor unions often saw immigrant workers as the enemy, accusing
them of depressing wages and breaking strikes. But the executive council of the
AFL-CIO adopted a more sympathetic approach Wednesday to illegal immigrants,
contending that too often the nation's immigration rules had enabled employers
to exploit them.

The new policy comes as business groups are pushing for similar legislative
changes to help industry cope with a shortage of workers and as the high-tech
industry is urging Congress to allow more skilled immigrants to come to the
United States to work legally.

Wednesday's action came after California union officials urged AFL-CIO officials
to back an amnesty, telling them that many illegal workers faced low wages and
lives of misery because of the way immigration rules have enabled unscrupulous
employers to exploit them.

Immigrants make up an ever-larger part of the nation's workforce, and labor
leaders are stepping up efforts to unionize hundreds of thousands of immigrants
who work at farms, hotels, construction, meat packing and many other industries.
Labor leaders complain that unscrupulous employers often fight off unionization
drives by threatening to fire employees who are illegal immigrants and support
unions, and by calling immigration officials to deport them.

"The present system doesn't work and is used as a weapon against workers," said
John Wilhelm, chairman of the labor federation's Committee on Immigration Policy
and president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union.

"The only reason a lot of employers want to hire a large number of illegal
aliens is so they can exploit them."

The AFL-CIO said it would continue its opposition to the proliferation of
guest-worker programs that has allowed a variety of corporations to bring
skilled workers into the United States, particularly in the high-tech industry.
Officials said they want fewer guest-worker programs and greater scrutiny of
corporate claims that they cannot find appropriate workers in the United States.

Among these programs is the H1-B visa program, which grants temporary visas to
foreign workers in specialized occupations, including computer programming.
Under pressure from the high-tech industry, Congress raised the annual quota on
H1-B visas to 115,000 in 1999 and 2000, up from 65,000. It's scheduled to fall
to 107,500 in 2001 and 65,000 in 2002.

Although the AFL-CIO did not change its position on visa programs for skilled
workers, immigration advocates said it was significant.

The labor federation's resolution calls for blanket amnesty for the estimated 6
million illegal immigrants in the United States. At the same time, the
federation, which is holding its annual winter meeting in New Orleans, called on
the federal government to maintain efforts to keep out illegal immigrants.

Just 15 years ago, the labor federation's support helped pass legislation
creating sanctions for employers who hire illegal immigrants. At the time, labor
unions said such sanctions were needed to keep illegal immigrants from flooding
the labor market and undermining union wages. But union officials said Wednesday
that a new policy was needed because employer sanctions have failed to stem the
tide of immigration and because immigrants represent such a large part of the
workforce in dozens of industries.

"It's a very dramatic change in policy that follows a very dramatic change in
our world," Wilhelm said.

Many immigrants have had an ambivalent attitude toward the labor movement
because some unions sought to keep out immigrant workers and because of labor's
past support of employer sanctions. But with unions straining to organize more
workers, labor officials have concluded that current immigration rules, with
their threat of deportation, have made it hard to unionize industries that hire
many illegal immigrants, like apparel, chicken-processing and hotels.

Labor leaders pointed to an incident involving a Holiday Inn Express in
Minneapolis, which asked immigration officials to deport nine hotel maids after
they had voted to unionize. The maids were arrested.

Labor officials see their new policy as a way to make immigrants warm up toward
labor and to make it easier to unionize businesses with many illegal immigrants
by making it harder for employers to intimidate them.

"We, the labor movement, have to put ourselves in a leadership position in
immigrant rights," said Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm Workers.
"This is a way to help low-wage, immigrant workers."

Randy Johnson, vice president of labor policy for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
welcomed the labor federation's new policy. "It's certainly adeparture from
organized labor's traditional position, which was an increased number of
immigrant workers is bad for domestic workers," he said. "I think this is an
area where the business community and organized labor can work together."

But at least one key member of Congress on immigration issues, Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, chairman of the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration,
called labor's announcement a cynical ploy.

"What a betrayal of American workers," Smith said.

"Apparently, union bosses are so distraught about declining enrollments they
will stoop to exploiting illegal workers."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 14, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

132 CHINESE MIGRANTS WERE HIDDEN IN SHIP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 97 words


Using torches and crowbars, U.S. agents discovered 132 Chinese illegal
immigrants in a secret compartment in the hold of a ship docked in Savannah,
Ga., immigration officials said Friday. U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service official Sue Brown said the migrants were found by agents acting on a
tip that the Prince Nicholas, a ship registered in Cyprus, was smuggling illegal
immigrants. Friday, the migrants were transported to Atlanta, where Brown said
they would be interviewed by agents who detained the ship's 28-member crew, from
the Philippines, China and Lithuania.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A group of illegal immigrants from China line up to be removed from the cargo
ship Prince Nicholas in Savannah, Ga., on Thursday.
[990814 FR 15A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 8, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIDDEN CARGO: DOZENS OF CHINESE NATIONALS 53 MEN AND BOYS TAKEN FROM SHIP

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH


Authorities Wednesday removed 53 Chinese nationals found crammed into hidden
areas on an ocean freighter after getting a tip that a vessel anchored in the
Port of Long Beach was carrying illegal immigrants.

Dozens of Chinese men and several teenage boys were found in an empty cargo hold
on the Pu Progress bulk carrier, Coast Guard Lt. Jeanne Reincke said.

"Other men were in concealed spaces throughout the ship, from smaller holds to
ballast tanks," she added.

It was not known how long the men were aboard the vessel. All of them were in
good health, Reincke said. U.S. Customs Service officials received a tip Tuesday
and found nine of the immigrants by midnight; the remaining 44 were found
Wednesday.

The immigrants were detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They
are likely to be deported unless they state a fear of political persecution,
which could trigger a hearing before an immigration judge.

Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Charles Cashin said he did not know where the
Singapore-registered ship last departed from or what cargo it was carrying.

The U.S. Attorney's Office was investigating whether the crew of the ship aided
the immigrants.

Cashin said the ship was in better condition than most of those he has seen
smuggling illegal immigrants.

"We get one of these about once every three months," Cashin said. "This cargo
hold wasn't bad. . . . Some are really cramped."

Some immigrants have been discovered hiding in small cargo containers they have
lived in for weeks, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
The cargo ship Pu Progress lies in Long Beach harbor Wednesday guarded by the
Coast Guard, which received a tip there were illegal immigrants on board. The
immigrants, all in good health, were found crammed into concealed spaces.
[991008 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 6, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ROADSIDE AD STRIKES AT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 223 words

DATELINE: BLYTHE


An immigration-reform group has erected an anti-illegal-immigrant billboard near
the California-Arizona border, prompting the ire of civil rights leaders who say
they will fight to remove it.

The sign, posted along Interstate 10, reads: "Welcome to California, the illegal
immigration state. Don't let this happen to your state." It's the third time
since 1998 the organization has purchased billboard space along the interstate.

"I've got no doubt that our detractors will try to deface it," said Barbara Coe,
head of the Huntington Beach-based California Coalition for Immigration Reform.

Latino leaders say they object to the message because they believe it targets
their ethnic group.

"We are fed up with this, to be quite honest," said Benny Diaz of the League of
United Latin American Citizens. "Where is the spirit of brotherhood to your
fellow human being?"

But the coalition defends the message on the 12-by-30-foot sign, saying it is a
factual statement and not intended to be racist.

"I suggest they get their own billboard and express themselves any way they
want," said coalition member Lesli Blenkhorn.

The first sign was erected in May 1998 but taken down after law enforcement
officers were called to a heated exchange between Latino activists and
California Coalition for Immigration Reform members.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 5, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 SPONSORS ASK FOR ENFORCEMENT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: PROPONENTS MANEUVER
TO REVIVE BAN ON EDUCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICES.

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 429 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Sponsors of Proposition 187 asked a federal appeals court Wednesday to allow
enforcement of the voter-approved ban on education and public services for
illegal immigrants because Gov. Gray Davis failed to defend it.

Davis announced last week that he had settled a suit by immigrants'-rights
groups by agreeing to drop the state's appeal of a federal judge's ruling that
declared most of the proposition unconstitutional. Lawyers for the main pro-187
group said the settlement showed that the suit should be thrown out of federal
court.

"When the governor abandoned the defense of Proposition 187, the will of the
people was frustrated by the very representative government that the initiative
process is designed to represent," the Pacific Legal Foundation said in papers
filed with the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

In a final legal attempt to revive the 1994 ballot measure, the foundation
argued that there is no longer any legal "controversy" between the state and
opponents of Proposition 187.

Because the Constitution allows federal courts to hear only cases involving
controversies between opposing parties, the judge's ruling should be withdrawn
and the suit dismissed, the foundation said.

The request, if granted, would require opponents to file a new suit and give
supporters of the initiative a chance to defend it in court.

But one opponent of Proposition 187 has also challenged Davis' settlement.
Attorney Stephen Yagman, who represented six immigrant students in one of the
suits against the measure, asked the appeals court Tuesday to disregard the
settlement and decide the case.

"It is completely undemocratic for a politico like Governor Davis to come into
office and nullify an initiative that was approved by a majority of the voters,"
said Yagman, who was not involved in the negotiations. Although the settlement
may help his clients, it would set a bad precedent, he said.

Proposition 187, approved by 59 percent of the voters, would deny public
education, social services and non-emergency health care to illegal immigrants,
who were already ineligible for most health and welfare benefits under federal
law. The measure would require teachers, doctors and other service providers to
report suspected illegal immigrants.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer ruled in 1997 that the initiative
conflicted with the federal government's exclusive authority to regulate
immigration, and with a 1982 Supreme Court ruling that required Texas to keep
public schools open to all residents regardless of immigration status.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 17, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

2-YEAR-OLD APPARENT PAWN IN ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT SCHEME THAI OFFICIALS: BOY USED AS
DECOY HIV-POSITIVE

BYLINE: THAKSINA KHAIKAEW, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand


A 2-year-old Thai boy being held by U.S. immigration authorities after being
used as an apparent pawn in a scheme to smuggle people into the United States
has HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, according to Thai health authorities.

A news release from the Thai health ministry Friday said the Los Angeles court
handling the case of Phanupong Khaisri confirmed that he has the virus.

U.S. District Judge Dickran Tevrizian won't be back for several weeks, and he is
the only one who can comment, the judge's secretary said Friday.

Phanupong's late father was also HIV-positive.

Thai health minister Korn Dabbaransi learned of the boy's diagnosis during a
recent visit to Los Angeles. Korn said he would try to ensure that when the boy
was returned to Thailand, he would be sent to stay with family members in Chiang
Rai in northern Thailand.

Phanupong has been in the United States since April 11, when he arrived at Los
Angeles International Airport accompanied by a couple pretending to be his
parents. The adults were deported after it was determined they were not his
relatives.

Officials said they believe the adults were posing as tourists and using the boy
as a prop in a scheme to smuggle a Chinese woman into the country as an
indentured servant.

A Thai health ministry official said Korn will pledge to U.S. authorities that
the boy will be properly looked after on his return, especially because he is
HIV-positive.

"The minister said Thailand is ready to do its best to care for the boy as
caring for HIV-infected people is not beyond Thailand's medical ability,"said
the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Thailand is among the countries in Asia most seriously affected by the HIV
epidemic. The problem is worst in northern Thailand, Phanupong's home.

Earlier this month, Tevrizian said he would not deport the boy until he was sure
the child would get proper care in his homeland.

Tevrizian extended a temporary restraining order that barred the boy's
repatriation, and scheduled another hearing for July 17.

The toddler's grandparents, who flew to the United States to adopt the boy, and
the Thai consulate have demanded custody in the case. The child is being cared
for by social workers.

Korn will send the letter assuring the U.S. authorities that Phanupong will
receive good treatment from a government hospital in his Chiang Rai province,
the health ministry official said.

"The minister said the ministry will do everything the U.S. authorities request.
However, he sees that health care is important to the patient but that mental
health is just as important, so the boy will be with his grandparents who love
him and give him warmth and affection," he said.

Phanupong's mother has given vague accounts of why she did not keep her son in
her care, saying she thought he was sightseeing with friends. Thai officials
have declared her unfit for custody.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 2, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISAS APPROACHING BRIM OF CAP

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Demand for coveted work visas reserved for high-skilled immigrants has been so
strong that the annual ceiling on them is about to be reached only five months
into the fiscal year, immigration officials said Wednesday.

As of Feb. 15, about 67,000 of the H-1B petitions were approved by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for the fiscal year, agency officials
said. There are about 44,000 more petitions pending with the INS, meaning up to
111,000 may already be accounted for. The cap for the number of H-1B visasthat
can be distributed between Oct. 1, 1999, and Sept. 30, 2000, is 115,000.

The strong demand for the visas is a reflection of the booming high-tech
industry in the United States in recent years. Of about 134,400 H-1B visas
distributed between May 11, 1998, and July 31, 1999, about 53 percent of them
were given to immigrants filling system analyst or programmer jobs, according to
an INS estimate. And 47.5 percent of those were distributed to people from
India.

The H-1B visa is valid for three years and is renewable only once for another
three-year period. The cap was first reached three years ago, when the ceiling
was 65,000. Since then, legislation has increased the cap temporarily to 115,000
last year and this year and to 107,500 next year, before returning to 65,000.

But there has been a slew of new legislation proposed by Republican congressmen
to increase the cap or to get rid of it altogether.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 26, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

ANXIOUS PURSUIT OF MORE TECH VISAS 3 FIXES PROPOSED IN CONGRESS ADDRESS
EDUCATION, TRAINING

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1423 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It's becoming an annual rite to rival the blooming of the cherry trees here:
Immigration officials run out of special visas for skilled foreign workers,
Silicon Valley companies panic and come running to Congress to solve the
problem.

This year, the annual allotment of 115,000 H-1B visas actually disappeared
before the first blossoms arrived, a startling development given that Congress
nearly doubled the number two years ago. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service just cut off new applications -- six months before the end of the
federal fiscal year. Last year, the plug was pulled on new applications June 15.

The faster pace at which the visas were doled out again this year has led to
proposals to provide a long-term fix -- from more money for education and
retraining to scrapping the visa program altogether and allowing
skilledforeigners to come here permanently.

But the high-tech industry is also looking for another short-term fix for one
simple reason: There will be even fewer visas available next year.

In 1998, Congress temporarily boosted the annual number of H-1B visas through
this year. Only 107,500 will be available in 2001. In 2002, that number will
drop back down to the 1998 level of 65,000.

Silicon Valley executives say the three-year visas are crucial to filling
thousands of vacant high-tech jobs, but critics charge that companies prefer
cheaper foreign workers to retraining Americans and that the program is rife
with fraud.

Three bills have been introduced in Congress this year to increase the number of
H-1B visas again and make changes to try to reduce the need for foreign workers.
Each is sponsored by a senior Republican, with the backing of different key
California lawmakers.

With intense pressure from Silicon Valley, Congress appears poised to increase
the number of visas again this year.

A Senate committee already overwhelmingly approved one of the bills earlier this
month.

The White House has signaled it would sign legislation that temporarily
increased the visas as long as it provided more money for education and
retraining through higher visa fees.

New bills tied to training

The bipartisan Senate bill, co-sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.,
would raise the annual H-1B visa cap to 195,000 for three years, but would not
increase the $500 per-visa fee.

A bipartisan bill in the House of Representatives, co-sponsored by Reps. Zoe
Lofgren, D-San Jose, and Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, would raise the cap to 200,000
and double the fee.

Another bill in the House, co-sponsored by Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, would
also double the fee, but increases the number to only 160,000 in fiscal 2001 and
to 107,500 in 2002.

"Lifting the cap represents a short-term solution to what is a long-term
problem. . . . We need to get better training and education for our people in
math, science and technology," said Roberta Katz, chief executive officer of
TechNet, the Palo Alto-based lobbying group that has made the H-1B visa issue
one of its top goals this year. "I believe that members of Congress are now
better understanding the long-term part of the problem."

But it's on the question of long-term reform that the proposals most strongly
diverge.

* The Senate bill would exempt from the cap foreigners who have earned a
master's degree or higher from an American university or come to work at a
university or research institution here. The increased number of visas would
generate an additional $150 million over three years for education and training.
Under an amendment by Feinstein, the bill would funnel most of that to math and
science programs for elementary and secondary school students and to
scholarships for low-income students. High-tech companies have pledged to match
the federal money for math and science education.

"Education is the long-term key" to solving the H-1B visa problem, Feinstein
said.

* The House bill co-sponsored by Campbell would force the Clinton administration
to enact reforms passed in the 1998 law designed to clamp down on so-called "job
shops" -- companies that bring workers to America on H-1B visas and subcontract
them out. H-1B visa holders, many of whom are from India, have complained that
these job shops pay them less than what American workers get.

The bill also would allow companies to get additional visas only if they hired
more American workers, and would use the increased fees to fund college
scholarships for students in high-tech fields.

* The other House bill, backed by Lofgren and Eshoo, also would put the
increased fees into education and retraining of American workers. The bill would
allow H-1B visa holders to remain in the country while awaiting
permanent-resident status, a process that can take several years.

* A proposal by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA, which
represents 220,000 engineers and programmers, would scrapthe H-1B visa system
and instead give the foreign tech workers instant "conditional green cards"
until their permanent residency is formally approved by the INS. That plan might
be introduced in the Senate soon.

"I think definitely there should be an increase this year, and it's a mistake if
Congress misses the boat on this," said Jenifer Verdery, manager of education
and workforce policy for Intel.

High-tech favors Senate bill

The Senate bill is the favorite of the high-tech industry because it boosts the
visas but not the fees. The House bill co-sponsored by Lofgren and Eshoo is
similar, aside from the increased fees, and the industry has responded
positively.

Not so with the other House bill, co-sponsored by Campbell. The increase in
visas is smaller, and high-tech executives are concerned about tying it to the
performance of troubled government agencies like the INS.

But Campbell said linking the increase to enaction of the 1998 requirements --
which include provisions to protect certain U.S. workers from losing their jobs
to foreign replacements -- is simply to force the Clinton administration's hand.

"The administration tries to have it both ways. They try to tell high-tech they
are their friends and they support the increase in visas, and then they ignore
the mandate of Congress," Campbell said.

Lofgren said linking new visas to the performance of the INS is a bad idea.

The INS just this month enacted a relatively simple provision in the 1998 law
requiring companies to fill out a new form with each visa application that
contains basic information about the H-1B visa worker, she noted.

"I don't think the American economy should be punished because of the ineptitude
of the immigration service and the Department of Labor," Lofgren said. For that
reason, her bill would allow H-1B visa holders who have applied for permanent
residency in the United States to continue to work here until the INS processes
their request. A foreigner can get a second three-year H-1B visa, but waiting
times at the INS can stretch to years.

But all that does is make the H-1B visa holder a permanent, temporary worker in
this country, said Merrill Buckley, president of the engineering union. Making
skilled foreign workers permanent residents from the start would mean they are
not beholden to the companies that applied for the visas and put them on a level
footing with American workers, he said.

But Verdery said the process for bringing a worker into the country as a
permanent resident is too cumbersome. Silicon Valley companies prefer the H-1B
visa because it can be quickly processed to meet the industry's high-speed
product cycles.

But there's another reason for Silicon Valley executives to oppose the idea.
Bringing a worker in on a green card requires the company to attest that it
couldn't find a qualified American for the job.

That would give slighted American workers the ability to challenge hiring
decisions with federal authorities.

Some in Congress tried to require those companies' statements in the 1998 visa
increase, but the provisions ultimately were applied only to the job shops --
companies whose workforce is composed of more than 15 percent foreign workers on
H-1B visas -- because they were too controversial.

But for the high-tech industry, the top priority right now is just increasing
the number of visas to avoid a repeat of what is becoming an annual occurrence.
"Clearly," Verdery said, "we erred on the number the last go-around."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Three proposals to increase H-1B visas

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2000

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 3/29/00, pg. 2A) An article
Sunday on Page 1A about H-1B visas incorrectly identified the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA. The group is the career-services and
public-policy arm of the IEEE, which is a worldwide professional society.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 7, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA EXCESS PUT AT 21,888 H-1B: AUDIT REPORT FINDS OVERCOUNT TO BE HIGHER THAN
ESTIMATED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Auditors have concluded federal officials mistakenly doled out more visas for
skilled foreign workers last year than the government previously estimated.

An analysis by KPMG Consulting determined the Immigration and Naturalization
Service exceeded the congressionally mandated limit by 21,888 to 23,385 visas
for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.

INS, which discovered the overcount last summer, told Congress several months
ago the excess was expected to be between 10,000 and 20,000 visas, but probably
nearer the lower end.

The H-1B visa category has proven extremely popular with computer companies and
other high-tech interests in recent years as they've tried to address explosive
job growth. Congress, which increased the visa allotment two years ago, is
expected to act again this year to raise the category beyond its temporary
115,000 ceiling.

A congressional critic of the INS slammed the agency anew Thursday for the
overcount.

"The taxpayers would be well-served by remedial math training for top managers
at the INS," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who chairs the House Judiciary
immigration subcommittee. "It would cost less than hiring a big-name accounting
firm every time the agency must count past 10."

Smith said the audit fell short of answering the key question: how the
overissuance of visas occurred.

"Even the audit of the INS miscount appears to be flawed because the accounting
firm was contracted only to check the INS's math," Smith said. "We still don't
know what went wrong."

KPMG is working to determine how the error occurred and what fixes should be
implemented, INS spokeswoman Eyleen Schmidt said, adding those findings are
several weeks away. The KMPG audit cost $670,000, INS says.

Agency officials have blamed the overcount on a computer system
miscommunication. While the four INS service centers that process H-1B visa
applications monitor their internal processing figures, the numbers weren't
properly conveyed to the main INS computer system that tracks the overall
issuance of the visas.

The overcount is yet another misstep for the beleaguered INS, which is trying to
fend off congressional attempts to abolish the agency and replace it with
separate bureaus to enforce the nation's immigration laws and dole out
immigration benefits.

Meantime, INS is awaiting congressional action on several bills that would
expand the H-1B visa program.

"Should none of those bills pass and there isn't a legislative fix to
the(overcount), we would then go back and consult with Congress," Schmidt said.

The Clinton administration has signaled it supports a "reasonable increase" in
the program, which is permanently capped at 65,000 visas annually. Heeding the
high-tech industry's complaints, Congress in 1998 temporarily boosted the visa
category, which is due to revert to 65,000 after next year.

At a White House session with corporate executives Thursday, President Clinton
expressed support for raising the visa ceiling. "We will raise it and we should
raise it because, first of all, immigration's good for our country, and second,
these companies need to continue to grow," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 13, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA TURNABOUT SUDDENLY THE KEY POLITICAL PLAYER FAVORS NO NUMERICAL LIMITS ON
H-1B IMMIGRANTS, BUT SOME CONSTRAINTS SHOULD BE KEPT IN PLACE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 636 words


IT'S as if a prosecutor walked into court one morning to announce he now favors
decriminalizing drugs.

The chief advocate in Congress for tight limits on temporary work visas now says
let the free market for high-tech labor reign.

In a mystifying move this week, Rep. Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican, junked a
bill he introduced only weeks ago in favor of another that that would allow an
unlimited number of H-1B visas for immigrant high-tech workers over the next
three years.

Smith's opinion counts, because, as chairman of the House Immigration
Subcommittee, he gets to choose which bills get priority. He's made it clear it
will be his bill, which Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell is co-sponsoring, and not
an alternative bill co-sponsored by California Reps. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose,
Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, and David Dreier, R-Covina.

What changed his mind, Smith said, was the announcement by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service that applications for H-1B visas were running 50,000
ahead of a year ago. All 115,000 the current law permits have been allotted
midway through the year. Given the demand for high-tech workers -- and giving
industry the benefit of the doubt -- he now favors removing the ceiling for at
least three years.

A month ago, Smith had called for a one-year addition of 45,000 extra H-1B
visas. He had pointed out that a thorough and objective look at high-tech labor
needs by the National Science Foundation would be out in the fall. It would
provide a basis for setting future quotas.

That made sense to us then, and still does. Congress should increase the limit
substantially for next year, but not beyond that point, until it has more facts
in hand. Lofgren's bill would raise the ceiling to 200,000 for the next three
years.

It could be that Smith is not a true convert after all but remains skeptical at
heart about the shortage of computer designers and programmers. His bill
includes a number of conditions that could hinder high-tech companies' ability
to get more H-1B workers. As a result, the industry has reacted coolly to the
bill. The conditions include:

(hbox) The government would have to implement anti-fraud measures that were part
of a 1998 bill, but have yet to be adopted.

(hbox) Small "body shop" companies that supply workers to technology firms would
be ineligible for H-1B visas.

(hbox) Companies seeking H-1B visas would have to certify that they had raised
the wages of American workers and had been unsuccessful in filling a vacancy.

(hbox) The names, positions and salaries of all H-1B holders would be posted on
the Internet.

Smith considers these conditions a quid pro quo: If high-tech firms live up to
their end of the deal, they can have as many visas as they need. But the
high-tech industry has cause to view many of Smith's requirements as
bureaucratic and intrusive -- obstacles getting in the way of hiring more H-1Bs.
The industry is continuing to lobby for the Lofgren-Eshoo bill.

Lofgren's bill would be easier to administer and would set aside 60,000 of the
200,000 visas for immigrants with at least a master's degree. A $1,000 fee paid
by companies for each H-1B worker would generate $200 million in scholarships
and grants to encourage American students to major in engineering and the
sciences. While Smith's bill focuses on preventing H-1B abuses and fraud,
Lofgren's bill concentrates on fixing related problems, such as chronic delays
in the system of obtaining permanent work visas or green cards.

In forcing the INS to modernize and monitor its visa programs, both billsinclude
reforms worth passing. The challenge will be to make the INS and H-1B applicants
accountable without creating new impediments and to increase the number of H-1B
visas without abandoning all constraints.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: JIM HUMMEL

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    August 3, 1999 Tuesday PENINSULA EDITION

DEPORTATION THREATENED IN MARIJUANA ALLEGATION

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Mercury News Staff, Writer Kaye
Ross

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A Mexican with legal residency in the United States is facing deportation for
possession of what he calls medicinal marijuana.

Ismael Valenzuela of Sacramento and his cancer-afflicted wife, Mae, said she
bought two pounds of marijuana in 1994 and planned to use it as a treatment for
pain.

Before a deportation hearing Monday, Valenzuela said he took the rap for his
ailing wife, an American citizen, when he pleaded guilty in 1995.

Now the 37-year-old truck driver says he has paid his debt to society and that
it would be unduly harsh on his five dependent children to force him to return
to Mexico.

Valenzuela's predicament stems from the federal Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, which eliminated waivers for legal
immigrants facing deportation for felonies.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 4, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WIFE OF NIGERIAN ACTIVIST IN IMMIGRATION MIX-UP

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Mercury News Staff, Writer Kaye
Ross

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: SAN PABLO


The wife of executed Nigerian author Ken Saro-Wiwa was free Friday after
spending six days in police custody for missing an immigration hearing she says
she knew nothing about.

Hauwa Saro-Wiwa, who works as a special education teacher in the Bay Area, spent
nearly a week in Marin County Jail after a traffic stop revealed a federal
warrant for her arrest. Saro-Wiwa says she and her 5-year-old son were in danger
of being deported once she left the jail.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service sought a hearing with Saro-Wiwa
because there was some confusion as to whether her immigration papers had been
filed and processed correctly. Saro-Wiwa was ordered to stay in the area and
check back with the INS once a month while the matter is straightened out.

Her husband, a noted author and activist, was executed in 1995 under the
military dictatorship of the late Gen. Sani Abacha.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 5, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WARNING BY INS PAYS OFF: NO RUSH EXPIRING GREEN CARDS DON'T SWELL OFFICE LINES

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 953 words


Immigration officials told local residents not to rush headlong to the
immigration office if their green cards were about to expire. And most people
apparently listened.

The line at the San Jose office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
was as long as usual Monday morning. But the anticipated rush of people to renew
green cards -- which are now starting to expire for thousands of Bay Area
residents -- did not materialize.

Of the 1,000 people who stepped up to the information windows at the San Jose
office, only about 60 needed new green cards, said Kathy Redman, acting benefits
director.

"As you can see, we don't have people panicking," said Redman, sent from INS
headquarters to create a model, customer-friendly immigration office and cut the
backlog of citizenship cases.

On Monday, Redman said that the waiting time to become a citizen had been nearly
cut in half from the beginning of the year.

The green cards issued to legal permanent residents, however, represented the
most pressing concern of many immigrants in line.

Cards began expiring Friday, a decade after the INS started putting expiration
dates on the documents. But INS officials emphasize that there is no penalty for
late renewals and that temporary documents will be issued immediately.

Most important: Having an expired card does not make you an illegal U.S.
resident and will not prevent you from returning to the United States if you
travel, officials say.

The cards can be renewed six months in advance, but officials are asking
immigrants to wait a few months for the INS to streamline the procedure,
probably with a mail-in option.

But Sergio Cerda, a 22-year-old Mexican immigrant who lives near Los Banos,
didn't feel he had much of a choice. His card expired Monday.

He had come to the INS office on Friday to get the required I-90 form. And he
returned Monday to pay the $110 renewal fee and get a temporary card.

Redman, meanwhile, will head back to Washington, D.C., on Wednesday after a
four-month stint in San Jose. But she'll continue to work on the "customer
service laboratory" here from INS headquarters.

Thus far, the lab's most dramatic result has been a reduction in the backlog of
citizenship cases, a reduction exceeding most other INS offices around the
country. When the year began, the wait in San Jose to become a citizen was
nearly three years. Now it's down to about a year and a half, Redman said.

She said the office met its goal of swearing in more than 38,000 new citizens in
the fiscal year that ended last Thursday -- more than 20,000 in the last four
months alone.

Assuming the pace of naturalization continues, she predicted, the wait should be
down to about eight or nine months by this time next year.

One reason the INS has been able to play catch-up nationwide is that
applications for citizenship have been falling markedly since the INS more than
doubled its naturalization fee to $225 in January.

In addition, Redman said, there are no red-hot issues like Proposition 187 or
the 1996 welfare reform bill (which cut off public benefits to most legal
immigrants) driving people to become citizens.

David Still, an official in the San Francisco district who is charge of backlog
reduction, indicated the INS is making progress throughout California.

The district, which includes Santa Clara County and 48 other California
counties, wrapped up at least 118,000 naturalization cases this fiscal year.
Last year, the district completed 60,000.

Part of the reason is that the district has increased its staff by about 25
percent, but much of the reduction can be traced to "efficiencies that have been
put into place," said Chuck DeMore, acting district director.

He said the San Jose pilot project indicates that top INS officials have gotten
the message that the agency is perceived as heartless and inefficient. "Better
customer service to the people we serve," he said. "That's our goal."

Other parts of the project will be operational this month. Members of a new
community advisory board -- made up of immigration attorneys, community
activists and congressional staffers -- on Monday got a sneak peek at the new
"community room" that will be the site of regular INS workshops on topics
ranging from green card replacement to obtaining travel documents. The board
also got a demonstration of a new INS Web site designed to make the bureaucracy
look more friendly.

The 1,700-square-foot community room has a kitchenette and wide-screen TVs, as
well as recessed lighting, a floating acoustic ceiling and sage-green pilasters.

One member of the community board, Doug Keegan, director of the Santa Cruz
County Immigration Project, said he had mixed feelings about the pilot project.

"I hope this isn't all window dressing," he said.

Keegan praised the new outreach effort to rural communities such as Watsonville,
where INS staffers have been dispatched to take care of business that can
normally be done only in San Jose. "But I continue to get troubling reports
about the way people are treated,"

One American-born woman showed up at the San Jose office to ask about how to get
her Mexican husband to the United States. According to Keegan, she stressed the
urgency by telling the INS employee at the counter that she was six months
pregnant.

"The employee responded: 'That's not my problem,' " said Keegan.

Such treatment, replied Redman, is unacceptable.

That's why every employee, from information officers to supply clerks, are now
required to attend a two-day customer service training session, she said.

An overriding message of the training, she said, is "Try to put yourself in that
other person's shoes."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: INS CONTACTS
For more information about the Immigration and Naturalization Service:
* The www.ins.usdoj.gov INS Web site has been revamped.
* Immigrants who need to renew green cards can call (800) 870-3676 to request
that I-90 forms be mailed to them.
* A workshop on green card replacement will be held at 1 p.m. Oct. 14 in the new
community room at the INS office at 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
The line at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office on Monterey Road
in San Jose on Monday morning was not unusually long.
[991005 LO 4B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 5, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WARNING BY INS PAYS OFF: NO RUSH EXPIRING GREEN CARDS DON'T SWELL OFFICE LINES

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 953 words


Immigration officials told local residents not to rush headlong to the
immigration office if their green cards were about to expire. And most people
apparently listened.

The line at the San Jose office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
was as long as usual Monday morning. But the anticipated rush of people to renew
green cards -- which are now starting to expire for thousands of Bay Area
residents -- did not materialize.

Of the 1,000 people who stepped up to the information windows at the San Jose
office, only about 60 needed new green cards, said Kathy Redman, acting benefits
director.

"As you can see, we don't have people panicking," said Redman, sent from INS
headquarters to create a model, customer-friendly immigration office and cut the
backlog of citizenship cases.

On Monday, Redman said that the waiting time to become a citizen had been nearly
cut in half from the beginning of the year.

The green cards issued to legal permanent residents, however, represented the
most pressing concern of many immigrants in line.

Cards began expiring Friday, a decade after the INS started putting expiration
dates on the documents. But INS officials emphasize that there is no penalty for
late renewals and that temporary documents will be issued immediately.

Most important: Having an expired card does not make you an illegal U.S.
resident and will not prevent you from returning to the United States if you
travel, officials say.

The cards can be renewed six months in advance, but officials are asking
immigrants to wait a few months for the INS to streamline the procedure,
probably with a mail-in option.

But Sergio Cerda, a 22-year-old Mexican immigrant who lives near Los Banos,
didn't feel he had much of a choice. His card expired Monday.

He had come to the INS office on Friday to get the required I-90 form. And he
returned Monday to pay the $110 renewal fee and get a temporary card.

Redman, meanwhile, will head back to Washington, D.C., on Wednesday after a
four-month stint in San Jose. But she'll continue to work on the "customer
service laboratory" here from INS headquarters.

Thus far, the lab's most dramatic result has been a reduction in the backlog of
citizenship cases, a reduction exceeding most other INS offices around the
country. When the year began, the wait in San Jose to become a citizen was
nearly three years. Now it's down to about a year and a half, Redman said.

She said the office met its goal of swearing in more than 38,000 new citizens in
the fiscal year that ended last Thursday -- more than 20,000 in the last four
months alone.

Assuming the pace of naturalization continues, she predicted, the wait should be
down to about eight or nine months by this time next year.

One reason the INS has been able to play catch-up nationwide is that
applications for citizenship have been falling markedly since the INS more than
doubled its naturalization fee to $225 in January.

In addition, Redman said, there are no red-hot issues like Proposition 187 or
the 1996 welfare reform bill (which cut off public benefits to most legal
immigrants) driving people to become citizens.

David Still, an official in the San Francisco district who is charge of backlog
reduction, indicated the INS is making progress throughout California.

The district, which includes Santa Clara County and 48 other California
counties, wrapped up at least 118,000 naturalization cases this fiscal year.
Last year, the district completed 60,000.

Part of the reason is that the district has increased its staff by about 25
percent, but much of the reduction can be traced to "efficiencies that have been
put into place," said Chuck DeMore, acting district director.

He said the San Jose pilot project indicates that top INS officials have gotten
the message that the agency is perceived as heartless and inefficient. "Better
customer service to the people we serve," he said. "That's our goal."

Other parts of the project will be operational this month. Members of a new
community advisory board -- made up of immigration attorneys, community
activists and congressional staffers -- on Monday got a sneak peek at the new
"community room" that will be the site of regular INS workshops on topics
ranging from green card replacement to obtaining travel documents. The board
also got a demonstration of a new INS Web site designed to make the bureaucracy
look more friendly.

The 1,700-square-foot community room has a kitchenette and wide-screen TVs, as
well as recessed lighting, a floating acoustic ceiling and sage-green pilasters.

One member of the community board, Doug Keegan, director of the Santa Cruz
County Immigration Project, said he had mixed feelings about the pilot project.

"I hope this isn't all window dressing," he said.

Keegan praised the new outreach effort to rural communities such as Watsonville,
where INS staffers have been dispatched to take care of business that can
normally be done only in San Jose. "But I continue to get troubling reports
about the way people are treated,"

One American-born woman showed up at the San Jose office to ask about how to get
her Mexican husband to the United States. According to Keegan, she stressed the
urgency by telling the INS employee at the counter that she was six months
pregnant.

"The employee responded: 'That's not my problem,' " said Keegan.

Such treatment, replied Redman, is unacceptable.

That's why every employee, from information officers to supply clerks, are now
required to attend a two-day customer service training session, she said.

An overriding message of the training, she said, is "Try to put yourself in that
other person's shoes."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: INS CONTACTS
For more information about the Immigration and Naturalization Service:
* The www.ins.usdoj.gov INS Web site has been revamped.
* Immigrants who need to renew green cards can call (800) 870-3676 to request
that I-90 forms be mailed to them.
* A workshop on green card replacement will be held at 1 p.m. Oct. 14 in the new
community room at the INS office at 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
The line at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office on Monterey Road
in San Jose on Monday morning was not unusually long.
[991005 LO 4B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 13, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GLITCH ALLOWS TECH VISA SPILLAGE INS: UP TO 20,000 ISSUED ABOVE 1999 QUOTA OF
115,000, DRAWING COMPLAINTS FROM FOES OF PROGRAM IN CONGRESS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal immigration service doled out up to 20,000 visas too many to
foreigners with high-tech skills during the just-ended fiscal year, prompting
angry complaints from Congress.

Immigration and Naturalization Service managers notified lawmakers last week
that, because of a computer system miscommunication, they had exceededthe
congressionally imposed cap of 115,000 H-1B visas for the year ended Sept. 30 by
10,000 to 20,000.

H-1B covers all visas for skilled workers -- those with at least a bachelor's
degree. Though it represents a fraction of 1 percent of U.S. workers, it's a
critical segment for high tech, especially in Silicon Valley, where companies
report an unmet need for programmers and engineers.

The mistake is the "latest self-inflicted wound by the agency's inept
management," Rep. Lamar Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's
immigration panel, said Tuesday.

"Little wonder there is such momentum behind the House's bipartisan legislation
to split the INS into two simpler agencies," said the Texas Republican. He is
pushing a plan to replace INS with separate service and immigration enforcement
agencies.

INS is contracting with an independent auditor to determine exactly how many
extra visas were issued, agency spokeswoman Maria Cardona said Tuesday.

The error occurred when visa approval numbers from the four INS service centers
that process H-1B applications didn't get into the agency's main computer system
in Washington that tracks totals, she said.

"They can blame system errors or the computer. They can blame anything they
want, but ultimately this is an agency that cannot count," said Smith spokesman
Allen Kay.

According to Joint Venture: Silicon Valley, about 69 percent of the valley's
high-tech jobs are filled by local residents. The remaining positions are filled
by outside recruits, commuters or are left vacant. The current workforce gap is
put at between 31 percent and 37 percent of the area's high-tech industry and is
projected to grow to 200,000 jobs by the year 2010, Joint Venture said in a
report on high-tech jobs.

INS officials declined to discuss options for dealing with the problem. But
agency spokeswoman Elaine Komis said, "We're trying to find a resolution that,
first of all, is permissible by law and, second of all, that will cause the
least possible inconvenience to both current and future H-1B employers and
beneficiaries."

Congressional aides said INS managers have floated several ideas, including
reducing this year's allotment by the amount of the 1999 overage or revoking
visas issued after the 115,000 cap was reached.

The expansion of the program in 1998 increased the annual number of visas to
115,000 in 1999 and 2000, then to 107,500 in 2001 before reverting back to the
65,000 level in 2002.

Revocation would be "unfair and inhumane," said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, who
has introduced legislation to increase the high-tech visa allotment to 200,000
annually over the next three years before dropping down to 65,000 in 2003.
"There has to be a better way," he said.

The Information Technology Association of America, a Virginia-based industry
group pressing to increase the H-1B cap, agreed.

"You can't cut off that pipeline," said ITAA vice president Renee Winsky, citing
Labor Department projections that the industry will need 140,000 new workers a
year over the next decade.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee's immigration
panel, suggested to INS Commissioner Doris Meissner that the overage be applied
to previous years in which the entire visa allotment was not used.

Reducing this year's allocation "would cause me grave concerns," the Michigan
Republican wrote to Meissner. "I do not believe the INS possesses the statutory
authority to shift visas from one year to the next."

Abraham was an architect of Congress' decision last year to raise the H-1B
ceiling from its earlier 65,000 level.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 16, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AN ACTIVIST, TEACHER, MOM DIES AT AGE 78 PEG CAPRON: 1921-1999

BYLINE: ELISE BANDUCCI, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 835 words


To Peg Capron's children, a typical 1950s mom divided her time between baking
cookies and marching on Washington.

"I don't think I realized until I was grown up what an incredible activist she
was," said son Bear Capron, a local teacher and gay-rights activist.

Peg Capron, a social justice advocate whose fight for equal rights for her gay
son became part of an international controversy over U.S. immigration policy
toward gays and lesbians, died Oct. 5. She was 78 and succumbed to a lung
infection.

Described by friends and family as fiery and charismatic, formidable and
overwhelmingly warm, Capron had spent a lifetime fighting for issues such as
fair housing and the rights of children and the elderly.

A decades-long member of the Unitarian Universalist Church and a national board
member for Common Cause, she was active in the League of Women Voters on both
coasts and was an early hospice organizer in the Boston area in the 1970s,
according to her husband, William Capron.

Among the issues she was passionate about was one that hit close to home: the
rights of gays and lesbians.

In 1980, her son Bear was living in the Netherlands as a naturalized Dutch
citizen when he learned of the recent enforcement of a provision of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Act that denied gay and lesbian immigrants U.S.
entry. In protest of the law, he visited the U.S. consul in Amsterdam to
proclaim his sexual orientation. As a result, his American visa was revoked.

As the provision was debated internationally -- the Dutch parliament formally
criticized the U.S. law -- Peg Capron and her husband launched a campaign to
rescind it. The couple appeared on television, communicated with members of
Congress and mounted a massive letter-writing campaign, all the while
proclaiming love and support for their exiled child.

Legislation the Caprons supported to repeal the provision failed, but the
immigration law was overhauled in 1990, deleting the restriction in question.

Bear Capron believes his mother's staunch support of gay rights was rooted in
her deep love of children.

"She never wanted a young person to have to suffer because of a secret," he
said. "The reason that I was able to come out was because the message that I
always got from my parents was that 'you are good.' "

Even during the turbulent '60s, Peg Capron never strayed from her nurturing
child-rearing philosophy, and other mothers often called her for advice,
according to her family.

"My brother Seth grew his hair long in high school when the only people who did
were rock stars," said daughter Margie Capron, remembering that her mother was
concerned but calm. "Her philosophy was that you were always there for your kids
. . . and if you were patient, they would work through their rebellion."

In addition to being patient, Peg Capron made sure she was present in the lives
of her four children. "She actually scheduled her meetings so she would be home
when we got home from school," said Margie Capron, who remembers telling her
mother about her school day over homemade cookies and milkshakes.

When her children grew and left home, Peg Capron's love of writing kept the
family in close touch. Before e-mail, "the four of us would get three to four
letters a week from her," Margie Capron said.

A graduate of Swarthmore College, Peg Capron married in 1942 and raised her
children in Palo Alto with her husband, who was teaching economics at Stanford.
The Caprons moved back East when William Capron went to work for the Kennedy and
Johnson administrations.

While in the Washington, D.C., area, Peg Capron helped organize the Montgomery
County branch of the campaign supporting Eugene McCarthy for president. After
the Caprons moved to Massachusetts in the 1970s, she was among the first in the
Boston area to receive hospice training and was an early member of Greater
Boston Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, William Capron said.

Beginning in 1979, she worked at the non-profit Elderserve, where she advised
senior citizens and worked on housing issues for the elderly.

The couple returned to Northern California and retired in Mountain View 10 years
ago. But Peg Capron was anything but retired as a community advocate.

She was active in the local League of Women Voters and a founding member of
Peninsula Interfaith Action (PIA), a coalition of 19 local congregations
ofnumerous faiths that works on social justice issues.

All the while she continued her advocacy for young people, organizing local
tutoring programs as part of her work with PIA.

Those who volunteered with her describe her contribution as more than just hard
work. They say she was a magnet for getting others involved.

"Peg had a sparkle and enthusiasm -- I call it a bounce in her step -- that was
contagious," said the Rev. David Mann, PIA executive director. "That was mixed
with a flint-like eye for social justice that came from her heart. Everybody
loved Peg. And she was easy to follow."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Margaret (Peg)
Morgan Capron
* Born: April 1, 1921, in Hartford, Conn.
* Died: Oct. 5, 1999, in Palo Alto.
* Survived by: Husband, William Mosher Capron of Mountain View; daughter, Margie
Capron of Arlington, Va.; sons, Alexander Capron of Santa Monica, Bear Capron of
Mountain View and Seth Capron of Aromas; and six grandchildren.
* Services: Memorial at 2:30 p.m. Nov. 7 at the Unitarian Universalist Church of
Palo Alto.
* Memorial: Donations may be made to the Unitarian Universalist Service
Committee, 130 Prospect St., Cambridge, Mass. 02139.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Capron
Was part of international controversy over U.S. immigration policy for gays and
lesbians
[991016 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 5, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE VOTES TO SPLIT INS IN TWO COMPROMISE SOUGHT TO REPLACE GOP
BILL

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 646 words


A House of Representatives panel Thursday voted to dismantle the beleaguered
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

On a straight party-line vote, the House immigration subcommittee voted to slice
the agency into two. One bureau would provide "services" for immigrants; the
other bureau would enforce the country's immigration laws.

"We are hearing from every part of the country that the INS has now edged out
the IRS for the agency Americans most want reformed," said Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, the subcommittee chair. He cited the well-publicized backlog of 4
million applications for citizenship, green cards and other benefits.

But the bill by Reps. Hal Rogers, R-Ky., and Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas, is
opposed by the Clinton administration, congressional Democrats and
immigrant-advocacy groups.

The opponents agree that the INS must be radically restructured. But they
complain that the GOP bill would make a messy situation even messier. They argue
that splitting the agency into two parts would require unnecessary duplication
of offices, jobs and functions.

"The question we have to ask is, 'Is this bill going to make the agency any
better?' " said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a member of the immigration panel.
"I don't see how it's going to improve the situation by creating double
offices."

Richard Hobbs, Santa Clara County's citizenship director, said it would be
disastrous to "start from scratch" at a time when the INS is desperately
scrambling to reduce the backlog.

Lofgren said one key flaw in the GOP bill is that it doesn't address the issue
of lagging INS technology -- which, she noted, recently caused the agency to
accidentally issue as many as 20,000 more H-1B work visas than authorized by
law.

"The INS is not really in the '90s," she said. "Immigration judges are still
using Wangs."

Despite protests from Lofgren and other Democrats on the subcommittee, the INS
bill was approved on a voice vote after the subcommittee rejected, on a 6-4
party-line vote, a substitute offered by Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas. Her
bill would also have separated "services" from "enforcement" -- but kept control
of the agency under a single executive, such as the INS commissioner.

Smith scoffed at the Democratic alternative, calling it a lukewarm attempt at
reform. "All it does is create a super-INS under a new name," Smith said.

Lofgren recently wrote Smith, encouraging him to hold an immigration hearing in
San Jose.

Constructing a wall between service and enforcement is the basic idea behind the
San Jose INS office's new "customer service laboratory." INS officials say they
want to see what happens when the agency clearly separates the two functions.

Until recently, Lois Camille Chappell oversaw both functions. But she was
reassigned to the Reno INS office, and the customer-service part of her job will
be the responsibility of a permanent "director of benefits." A separate division
is now being headed by Frank Fernandez, assistant officer in charge, who focuses
solely on enforcement and reports to the district office in San Francisco.

Democrats and immigrant advocates expressed surprise that Smith offered the bill
even as Attorney General Janet Reno and Rogers appeared within striking distance
of working out a compromise.

In a letter sent Wednesday to Smith and other subcommittee members, Assistant
Attorney General Robert Raben said he had serious concerns about the bill.

"The bill does not provide an effective way to direct, coordinate and integrate
enforcement and service functions," Raben wrote.

Still, the administration remains hopeful that a bill that both parties can
agree on will emerge from Congress next year, said INS official Maria Cardona.

"From the beginning the administration has been committed to fundamental change
-- not maintaining the status quo," Cardona said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Lofgren
[991105 FR 4A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 14, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FRUSTRATION FLARES IN CUBAN BOY'S CASE JOYFUL FATHER ANNOUNCES IMPENDING RETURN
AFTER MISUNDERSTANDING U.S. OFFICIALS

BYLINE: JUAN O. TAMAYO, Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The international custody battle over the fate of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez took
a big step toward resolution Monday -- and then a step backward -- after U.S.
immigration officials finally managed to meet in Cuba with the boy's father to
obtain documents aimed at establishing his paternity.

A round of confusion ensued after the meeting because the father apparently
misunderstood a critical conversation with a U.S. immigration official and
declared that the United States was prepared to return the boy to his custody.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who had previously expressed a desire not to meet with
U.S. officials until they set a date for the boy's return, turned over a birth
certificate, school report cards and other documents in order to demonstrate
that he is Elian's father.

Assurances from U.S.

The 31-year-old hotel porter told reporters after the meeting that an official
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and an accompanying U.S. diplomat
offered assurances that Elian would be returned to him.

"They agree that the child should be returned as soon as possible," a clearly
elated Gonzalez announced after the two Americans left the hourlong meeting at
his home in Cardenas, 85 miles east of Havana.

But chagrined U.S. officials rushed to deny the father's claim -- and squash the
immediate accusations by Cuban exiles in south Florida that the Clinton
administration had cut a secret deal with Havana to return the boy.

"The father apparently misunderstands the INS procedures. The decision will be
made by the appropriate authorities in the United States," said a State
Department official in Washington.

The U.S. visitors "may have reassured him that they would expedite the process,
not the return. We certainly didn't need this confusion right now," said a U.S.
diplomat in Havana.

U.S. officials said they hope President Fidel Castro and his government
understand that the father made a mistake and not blame Washington for failing
to keep a promise that was never made.

The snarl over Gonzalez's statement threatened to undermine the tenuous progress
made by U.S. and Cuban officials on another facet of the battle. While officials
were meeting with Gonzalez, the two sides held a one-day round of migration
talks in Havana that Cuba earlier had threatened to boycott unless Elian was
returned to his father.

"The talks are still going, and that is good news," said one official at the
U.S. Interests Section in Havana. "They have not walked out, and neither have
we."

The migration talks, held twice a year to review progress in fulfilling the
requirements of U.S.-Cuba accords signed in 1994 and 1995, are a key symbol of
recent improvements in bilateral relations.

Elian's mother and stepfather and nine other Cubans drowned when their boat sank
on the way to south Florida. He was found floating on an inner tube off the
coast near Fort Lauderdale and was turned over to relatives in Miami.

'Dignified' talks

The two U.S. officials met with Gonzalez and Elian's paternal grandparents at 7
a.m. to avoid drawing a crowd. No Cuban government representatives were present
at the "dignified" talks, one U.S. official said.

The INS official explained to Gonzalez the exact procedures the INS must now
follow to establish his custody over Elian, and gathered documents needed to
establish that he is the boy's biological father.

The official will now write a report to INS headquarters in Washington, which
will be relayed to a hearing officer in Miami in charge of ruling whether Elian
should be granted to his relatives in Florida or returned to Cuba.

Relatives taking care of the boy in Miami have vowed to appeal any INS decision
to return the boy to Cuba, a legal process that could last weeks or even months.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Juan Miguel Gonzalez shows reporters a photo of his son, Elian, in Miami.
Elian's grandfather, Juan Gonzalez, stands nearby.
[991214 FR 10A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 18, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUST ROUTINE, MA'AM

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 164 words


Winnie Mandela, ex-wife of former South African President Nelson Mandela, was
held by U.S. officials at Kennedy International Airport on Friday as she started
a six-day visit to the country.

The New Jersey-based Black Cops Against Police Brutality group hosting Mandela,
a Member of Parliament in South Africa, said airport officials told her that her
visa had expired. Mark Thorne of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said
Mandela was "briefly held while we interviewed her to determine her
admissibility into this country. This is a routine procedure for many foreign
travelers and Ms. Mandela was admitted." She was admitted about three hours
later after immigration officials called the State Department, which authorized
her entry into the United States, said Steve Coleman, an official of the Port
Authority, which operates the airport.

Mandela was scheduled to give the keynote address today at a function organized
by Black Cops Against Police Brutality.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: People in the News

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Mandela
[991218 FR 2A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 23, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. DELAYS HEARING ON CUBAN BOY'S RETURN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 126 words


A 6-year-old Cuban boy at the center of an international tug of war will remain
in the United States for at least another month because immigration officials
postponed until Jan. 21 a routine interview on his status.

The inspection, which was to be held this morning, is a procedure by which a
person's immigration status is determined. The Immigration andNaturalization
Service will determine whether Elian Gonzalez should be returned to his father
in Cuba. The boy's mother died in an illegal attempt to sail to the United
States, which Elian survived.

In Havana, tens of thousands of students and workers clogged the seafront
boulevard Wednesday to demand Elian's return. The boy's relatives in Florida
want him to stay in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Elian
[991223 FR 10A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 26, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER ARRESTS RENEW CALLS FOR TIGHTER MONITORING NEW STEPS: A LAW, YET TO BE
PUT INTO ACTION, WOULD REQUIRE THE INS TO TRACK ENTRY AND EXIT OF ALL
NON-CITIZENS.

BYLINE: FREDERIC J. FROMMER, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The arrests of suspected terrorists at the Canadian border last week has
bolstered supporters of a law that would require the tracking of every foreigner
entering the United States.

That law is set to take effect in 2001, but lawmakers from northern states have
been trying to junk it for years, arguing that it would create long lines at the
border and deter tourists.

But with recent arrests in Washington state and Vermont that have fueled
heightened fears of terrorism, the law's backers have new ammunition.

Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian, was arrested in Washington state and charged with
attempting to bring bomb-making materials into the country. He has pleaded not
guilty. Investigative sources said there were indications he might have received
terrorist training in Afghanistan or Algeria.

Lucia Garofalo, a Canadian woman, and Bouabide Chamchi, of Algeria, were charged
in Vermont with conspiring to misuse a false passport and offenses related to
the transportation of illegal immigrants into and inside the United States.
Prosecutors said she had ties to a terrorist group.

"This case is the best wake-up call that either Canada or the U.S. is going to
get about our porous shared border," said Rep. Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican
who is chair of the House Judiciary's subcommittee on immigration, and the chief
defender of the law.

States bordering Canada have warned that should the law go into effect as
scheduled, it would cripple trade and tourism. Besides, they say, border guards
didn't need the law to apprehend Ressam.

"There might be some heightened concerns about the recent reports, but (the
arrest) shows that the current efforts are working," said Sen. Rod Grams, a
Minnesota Republican who is co-sponsoring a bill to repeal the measure.

The law, Section 110 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996, requires the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS) to come up with an automated system to track the entry and exit of all
non-citizens.

The Senate has voted three times to repeal the law, including this year, but the
House has yet to go along. Last year, congressional and White House negotiators
agreed to delay the law's start-up until 2001, giving the INS time to come up
with a workable plan.

Opponents of Section 110, led by Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., say the law
would lead to long lines at the border and cripple tourism and trade.

But proponents say last week's arrests show the need for increased security. Dan
Stein, director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, predicted
that the arrests would strengthen the hand of his organization and its allies.

"The porous nature of our northern border is inappropriate to the modern age,"
he said. "The legacy of the world's largest unguarded land border will soon be
history. What we need is a land border that requires inspections."

Abraham's pres secretary, Joe Davis, argued that the law wouldn't have helped
Border Patrol officers identify those arrested.

"Implementation of 110 is unrelated to the recent incidents," he said. "The
purpose of the law is to track people who have stayed in the country too long,
not people who have false documents."

Canada strongly opposes the law, but Section 110 advocates say a recent study by
the country's own intelligence agency, the Canadian Security Intelligence
Service, buttresses the case for retaining it.

"Proximity to the United States, a common border, large expatriate communities
and a healthy economy draw representatives of virtually every terrorist group in
the world to this country," the report states. "Support networks in Canada have
provided terrorists with safe haven and transit to and from other countries,
including the United States."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 27, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILIES ARE SPLIT BY IMMIGRATION RULES INS POLICIES BLOCK REUNIFICATION

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 846 words


THE boat's engine was fixed. It was time to try again for America. At the last
minute, Arianne Horta decided to leave her 5-year-old daughter, Estefani
Herrera, behind in Cuba with her grandmother. Another mother, Elisabeth Broton,
made a different choice. She got in the boat with her almost-6-year-old son,
Elian Gonzalez.

In the Florida straits, the motor died. The boat capsized. Then it sank. One
after another, the voyagers drowned.

Clinging to an inner tube, Horta and her boyfriend drifted as they slept. The
next day, they swam to shore at a Key Biscayne yacht club.

Hours later, the last survivor was found: Elian. It was Thanksgiving Day.

Since then Elian has been transformed. He's not a 6-year-old boy who's lost his
mother, survived a horrible ordeal and found himself in a strange -- very
strange -- country with unfamiliar family members.

Poor Elian has turned into a symbol, a trophy, a propaganda tool. Not a real
child at all.

Wednesday, under orders from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the
little boy's Miami relatives brought him to a "neutral site" to meet his
grandmothers, who've been flown to the United States to agitate for his return.

Apparently, his father won't be allowed out of Cuba to claim Elian, even with a
new wife and baby to serve as a guarantee of his good behavior and quick return.

Many Americans, thinking Mickey Mouse and freedom infinitely superior to Fidel
Castro and communism, suspect Juan Miguel Gonzalez might really want hisboy to
stay here. If he did, he couldn't say so.

Maybe. But we can't separate a loving parent from his child on that kind of
speculation. Eventually, for all the political posturing and legal maneuvering,
Elian will go home to his father.

It's been two months so far. Who knows how long he'll be in limbo?

Like Elian's father, Arianne Horta wants to be reunited with her only child.
Like Elian, Estefani is in limbo.

Estefani's father, Victor Herrera, moved out shortly after she was born. "If I
have to take her into my house, I will take her," he told reporters in Cuba.

You'd think it would be easy to bring Estefani to her mother, with the INS and
Fidel Castro both so big on family reunification, and Estefani's father not
exactly parent of the year. Think again. Horta can't apply for a visa for her
daughter until the mother gets permanent residency status. It will take a year
or more.

That's just the beginning of the wait. In theory, U.S. immigration policy makes
family reunification the top priority. But it doesn't work that way for a
permanent resident who's left a spouse and children back home.

Most commonly, the hang-up affects legal U.S. residents, usually men, who've
returned to their home countries to marry; there's a five-year backlog on
immigration visas. The permanent resident's spouse won't get a tourist visa to
visit either. Since she's applied to stay permanently, it's assumed she'll
overstay the visa.

If he's been here long enough, the husband could apply for citizenship. It takes
a year or more to get from the application to the swearing-in ceremony. Once
he's a citizen, his wife and kids face no visa limit. But it can take two years
to process their paperwork, says the Association of Americans for Spouse
Reunification (www.aasr.org). A million family members of citizens and legal
residents are in this limbo, the group says.

Under current law, the wife and kids can't enter the U.S. while they're waiting.
If they're caught here, they'll be deported.

The benefit of making them wait is . . . non-existent, as far as I can see.

Oddly enough, foreigners who come here on student visas or as temporary H-1B
workers can bring a spouse and kids with them. Many will apply for permanent
residence once they get here and eventually become citizens, but under the rules
of the game everyone pretends they're temporary.

Last year, the Immigration Backlog Reduction Act, H.R. 1854, proposed to grant
an extra 60,000 visas for five years to reunite permanent residents with their
spouses and children. It's stuck in a subcommittee.

Any proposal that raises the number of immigrants is controversial.

The Immigration Reform Coalition, which is lobbying for "green cards, not guest
workers," argues that families should be legally united, either by increasing
immigration quotas or by redirecting low-priority visas. For example, 55,000
visas are awarded each year by lottery, with no regard for the winners' ability
to be productive Americans. There are 10,000 visas for unskilled workers, 65,000
for citizens' siblings.

The AASR wants to let family members visit, or come on a "parole" status, while
waiting for a visa.

If we really value families, we'd find a way to keep families together while
they're moving toward citizenship.

Estefani will be OK. Some member of Congress will put in a private bill to grant
her a quick visa.

But there are lots of other kids who want to live with their parents too, and
wives who want to live with their husbands. Uncle Sam, not Castro, is keeping
them apart.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Arianne Horta, right, appears with Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., at a news
conference in Miami on Jan. 21.
[000127 ED 9B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 30, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WORKERS LEFT IN LIMBO BY INS DELAYS SOARING FOR GREEN CARDS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1526 words


U.S. immigration officials recently boasted that in a year they had cut the
average time it takes to become a citizen from 28 to 12 months. What they failed
to say is that the wait for green cards grew interminably long as the
citizenship lines got shorter.

Nowhere is the wait felt more deeply than in Silicon Valley, where thousands of
engineers and other highly skilled immigrants are seeking green cards, which
allow them to live here permanently without becoming citizens.

Because workers without green cards are still considered "temporary" residents,
they often can't get promotions or even home mortgages. They must get written
permission from the Immigration and Naturalization Service to travel abroad.
Some -- particularly tech workers from India and China -- may even be forced to
leave the country.

"Real lives are being destroyed," said Peter Larrabee, a San Diego attorney who
specializes in employment-based immigration.

INS officials reluctantly concede that the agency's frenetic effort to cut
citizenship lines has slowed processing of applications for permanent residency
to a turtle's pace. The average wait nationwide for "adjustment of status"-- the
final stage of green card processing -- is about 33 months, up from 21 months in
August 1998, said Eyleen Schmitt, an INS spokeswoman in Washington, D.C.

"There's no polite way to put it -- it's a mess," said one INS official who
requested anonymity. "It's a ticking time bomb that no one wants to talk about."

Most affected are immigrants who came to the United States on H-1B visas, which
allow highly skilled foreigners to work here -- but for no more than six years.
To get a green card, they must prove that their skills are exceptionalor in
short supply.

As recently as a year ago, the processing of status adjustments for H-1B workers
was taking 10 months at the INS' California Service Center, according to the
American Immigration Lawyers Association. Because of the backlog, the processing
for the workers in California now is expected to take from two to three years,
the association says. Add in the preliminary procedures required of most
applicants, and it can be a six-year wait.

Famous applicant

Many of Silicon Valley's best are in the INS queue, including Linus Torvalds,
the internationally renowned software architect.

"It's taking forever," said Torvalds, who created the Linux operating system.

Torvalds, who came to the United States from Finland three years ago, applied to
adjust his status in August 1998. Still waiting, he recently sought the help of
Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose. Her staff was told by the INS that Torvalds'
application wouldn't be processed until the end of the year.

"Which year?" quipped Torvalds.

"I've finally reached the end of my rope with the INS," fumed Lofgren, a member
of the House immigration subcommittee. "The situation is ridiculous."

The growing delays in applying for permanent residency have left thousands of
high-tech workers angry, frustrated and perplexed.

"I wouldn't mind waiting two years for my IRS refund check, but we really need
the green cards to get on with our lives," said Srihari Shoroff, an Indian
applications engineer who applied to adjust his status in September 1998.

Ruyben Seth, a program analyst at Synopsys Inc. in Mountain View, agreed. "This
is an advanced country, but the government is working more slowly than the
bureaucracies in developing countries," said Seth, who came to the United States
from India in 1994 and started his green card processing two years later. He
finally got word last week that his green card was approved.

Seth said the delay forced him to turn down promotions because INS rules
prevented him from taking a job that is substantially different than his
original position.

"It's like running a race and having the last mile never end," said Srinivas
Pattamatta, a design engineer for Philips Semiconductor who may have to leave
the country next year because of INS delays.

As a Silicon Valley superstar from a European country where there is little
demand to immigrate to the United States, Torvalds, 30, has less to worry about
than many of his Asian colleagues. But even he doubts whether a bank will give
him a mortgage until he's a permanent resident. And, as a green card applicant,
he must get the INS' written permission to leave the country.

"It's just the lack of freedom that's irritating," said Torvalds, who works at
highly touted Transmeta Corp., a Sunnyvale chip maker.

Leaving a possibility

For workers from China and India, who make up the bulk of H-1B visa holders,
however, the INS delays are far more painful. The wait means some might
eventually have to leave Silicon Valley -- and the country -- behind.

U.S. immigration law sets aside 140,000 employment-based green cards each fiscal
year. But because of the green card backlog, about 40,000 cards were issued in
fiscal year 1999. The approximately 100,000 unused spots don't roll over to this
fiscal year, so they're lost.

No more than 9,800 employment-based green cards for immigrants of any one
country can be issued in any year, and the State Department is warning that the
demand for green cards from Indian and Chinese workers will be greater than the
supply as soon as March.

If there are no green cards available, the workers can't even apply for
adjustment of status. If their six years are up, they have no choice but to
leave the country for at least a year, until they can apply for a new H-1B visa
and another six-year stint.

For Pattamatta, the Philips engineer, the looming quota might mean a forced
separation from his wife, a software developer for Compuware in Campbell. Her
H-1B visa doesn't expire for three years.

Pattamatta, who came to the United States eight years ago to get a master's
degree in computer science at Oregon State, filed his petition to immigrate in
April. Despite a written promise that the petition would take a maximum of 120
days, he's still waiting. And by the time he gets it, all the green cards for
Indians -- who represent nearly half of new H-1B workers -- might be gone.
"Luckily," he said, "I work for a multinational company and could work
overseas."

Torvalds was luckier than most. Because the INS determined that he was an "alien
of extraordinary ability," he was able to skip the first stage in the three-step
green card process: Labor Department certification, designed to ensure that
immigrant workers aren't taking the jobs of Americans.

The second stage, petitioning to immigrate, is also taking longer these days.
The petitions took several weeks to process in the spring of 1998, said
Larrabee, the San Diego attorney. Now it's taking about 11 months, said
Larrabee.

"My question is why?" said Larrabee, a former INS officer. "There's no reason
except poor management. It's the Keystone Kops."

No, said Dona Coultice, director of the California Service Center in Laguna
Niguel. It's because she doesn't have enough staff to do the job, she said.

Coultice said the number of employment-based immigration petitions has been
soaring, as high-tech skills become more of a commodity in a vibrant economy.
From 1995 to 1999, she said, the petitions jumped by about 80 percent, while the
number of INS adjudicators increased by 25 percent.

Immigration officials also blame the CIA for not processing security clearances
quickly enough for green card applicants. The backlog got so bad in late 1999
that the INS decided to issue green cards without waiting for the CIA clearance,
which is aimed at detecting criminals and suspected terrorists.

Many tech workers say they are growing tired of all the excuses.

"I'm feeling very uncertain about the future," said Sudhakar Muddu of Silicon
Graphics. The INS-certified "outstanding researcher" has been waiting for an
adjustment of status since October 1998.

His greatest fear is losing his job through a company restructuring, said Muddu,
who has a master's and a doctorate in chip design from UCLA.

One unusual aspect of the employment-based immigration process is that if you
change jobs, you're back to square one. It could mean starting the grueling
multi-year process or even having to leave the country.

"You could be two weeks away from getting a green card and have to start all
over again," Muddu said.

INS optimistic

But INS officials claim the situation is not as hopeless as it seems. Believing
that the citizenship lines are under control, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner
has ordered that service centers and local INS officials begin working harder on
adjustment of status applications. The goal for this fiscal year is to decrease
the average wait from 33 months to 24 months, said Schmitt, the INS spokeswoman.

Coultice said the California center has set a goal of processing 18,000 of the
26,000 pending status adjustment applications, most from high-tech workers.

"If I had the staff, I would get them all cleared out in 60 days," she said.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
The green card dilemma
Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service, State Department

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Among Silicon Valley workers affected by the backlog of INS green card
applications are, front row, Ruyben Seth, Srihari Shoroff and Linus Torvalds;
and back row, Sudhakar Muddu and Srinivas Pattamatta.
[000130 FR 16A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 4, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH VISAS CLOSE TO LIMIT FOR FISCAL YEAR

BYLINE: Compiled from the Associated Press, Bloomberg News and Los, Angeles
Times

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 129 words


The United States has almost exhausted its allocation of visas for software
designers, architects, doctors and other highly educated workers just four
months into this fiscal year, immigration lawyers say.

"What our members in the field are saying is they don't think there will be
enough H-1B visas to go around and they will hit the cap shortly," said Matthew
Tallmer, a spokesman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service won't say how many of its congressionally
mandated allotment of 115,000 visas it has granted until it figures out how many
it issued last year. Intel Corp., Sun Microsystems Inc. and other high-tech
companies say the dearth of visas is frustrating their hunt for skilled workers
this year.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Business News

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 18, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS EMPLOYEE CHARGED WITH SPYING FOR CUBANS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A U.S. immigration official who held a "secret" security clearance was arrested
Thursday and charged with spying for the Cuban government, the FBI said.

Mariano Faget, 54, was being held at the Federal Detention Center in Miami and
was to appear in court today, the FBI said.

Faget is employed at the Immigration and Naturalization Service as a supervisory
district adjudication officer. He was responsible for supervising decisions that
affected immigrants and people seeking political asylum, the FBI said.

"Due to his position, Faget had access to classified and sensitive INS files
relating to confidential law enforcement sources and Cuban defectors," the FBI
statement said. "Through sophisticated technical and physical surveillance
techniques, the investigation revealed Faget making unauthorized contacts with
Cuban intelligence officers in Miami and other cities in the United States."

Details were unavailable Thursday evening about the espionage charges lodged
against Faget, but FBI official Terry Nelson called the arrest "a major case"
that had been in the works for two years.

INS officials did not disclose Thursday how long Faget had worked for the
agency. But according to a story that ran in the Miami newspaper El Nuevo Herald
in 1996, he has been working for the INS for at least 34 years.

In that article, Faget was named the highest-ranking Latino INS officer in the
South Florida district. He was cited for his efforts in shortening the line at
the agency's main headquarters, where more than 100 people would often wait to
apply for status, work permits and the reopening of their cases. He also said
his job was to improve the image of the agency in South Florida.

Faget, who was born in Havana, waited in those lines with his father at the
beginning of 1960, when they went to the INS to claim political asylum. He
became a citizen Nov. 22, 1963 -- the same day that President John F. Kennedy
was assassinated in Dallas.

"I remember that many people started crying and there was even a person who got
up and said they were going to change their name to John," he was quoted as
saying in the article. "I laughed because I thought it was a joke to see how
much we loved this country and its president."

In October 1998, 14 people were charged in Florida in what authorities called
the largest Cuban espionage ring uncovered in the United States in decades.
Authorities said the group tried to penetrate U.S. military bases, infiltrate
anti-Castro exile groups, and manipulate U.S. media and political organizations.

Nelson told the Orlando Sentinel that Faget's arrest was unrelated to that spy
ring.

The United States severed diplomatic relations with Cuba in January 1961, two
years after Fidel Castro's rise to power, and initiated a trade embargo in 1962.
Travel to and from the country is restricted by the U.S. government, but
athletic, cultural and academic exchanges have been allowed.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 19, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FBI DETAILS STING IT USED TO SNARE INS OFFICIAL

BYLINE: AMY DRISCOLL AND JUAN TAMAYO, Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A highly placed U.S. immigration official charged with spying for Cuba waited
just 12 minutes before divulging classified information about a possible
defection of a Cuban intelligence officer to a New York businessman with ties to
the Castro government, FBI agents said Friday.

Mariano Faget, 54, placed a cellular phone call to the businessman after he was
told of the possible defection by FBI and INS officials in what turned out to be
an elaborate trap. The defection story was a sham, but Faget's phone
conversation was taped and provided the evidence that federal authorities needed
to charge him with violating espionage laws.

The sting came after agents had been shadowing Faget for at least a year, Paul
Mallett, the FBI's second in command in Miami, said Friday.

FBI agents began their investigation after learning a year ago that Faget had
called the Cuban Interests Section in Washington from his home phone. During the
probe, FBI agents witnessed Faget meeting with at least two Cuban intelligence
officers in Miami hotels and in other cities, Mallett said.

"This speaks to the heart of public trust," Immigration and Naturalization
Service District Director Robert Wallis said Friday. "I have zero tolerance for
this."

Faget was arrested Thursday. Agents served search warrants on his Miami home and
office, seizing two computers and his car.

State Department officials declined comment on whether they would expel one of
the Cuban intelligence officers at the Interests Section who met with Faget,
although such expulsions are normal when a spy case breaks.

A second intelligence agent who met with Faget returned to Havana last year, a
U.S. official said.

FBI agents moved in on Faget 30 days before he became eligible for retirement.

According to an affidavit, the head of the Miami office of the FBI, Hector
Pesquera, and the assistant district director of the INS, James D. Goldman, met
with Faget on Feb. 11 to get his help in arranging for the defection of a Cuban
intelligence officer. The meeting was videotaped.

Pesquera showed Faget an authentic FBI document classified "secret" that
contained the Cuban's photo and other biographical information, and told him
that the information was "secret and very sensitive, that it could not be
disclosed to anyone."

Faget filled out forms related to the Cuban agent's alleged defection. Then,
Faget returned to his office and quickly made a phone call to New York. Using
guarded terms, he told the man that "a person we both know" was "working with
the Americans." Faget then supplied the businessman with the name of the Cuban
intelligence officer.

Later that evening, he telephoned the businessman again and gave more details in
less guarded terms. Both phone calls were recorded, the FBI said.

The FBI did not identify the New York businessman whom Faget telephoned, but
court documents described him as chief executive officer and president ofa
Florida-registered firm he shares with Faget.

It's not Faget's first time in the headlines. In 1979, the Havana-born Faget
came under fire for granting a permanent visa to Esteban Ventura, a former Cuban
national police official and feared member of the Batista government, which
Castro overthrew.

Ventura had been living in the United States for 20 years without a visa. Faget,
an INS examiner and son of another Batista operative, granted him a visa that
made him eligible for citizenship without ever looking into Ventura's background
in Cuba.

Friday, Faget appeared in federal court before U.S. Magistrate Judge Stephen
Brown. He was denied bail after prosecutors said he would be a flight risk and a
danger to the community.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Mariano Faget is accused of leaking information to a Cuban agent
[000219 FR 16A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 21, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS HALTS BID TO DEPORT 23 INDIAN TECH WORKERS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS MONDAY; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Texas


Immigration authorities have dropped deportation proceedings against 23 Indian
computer programmers arrested last month during a raid at an Air Force base.
Instead, authorities will investigate the U.S. companies that hired them.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service will try to determine whether two
Houston companies -- Softech Consulting Inc. and Frontier Consulting Inc. --
skirted federal rules requiring Labor Department approval to move the Indian
nationals to Randolph Air Force Base in San Antonio.

The Jan. 20 raid followed a six-month INS investigation into possible visa
fraud.

INS district director Kenneth Pasquarell said the companies may have been
involved in a type of visa fraud called "body shopping." The practice occurs
when firms tell the government they will place highly skilled foreign workers in
jobs that don't exist and then send them to other cities.

In this case, Pasquarell said, the companies claimed the workers were in Houston
and then later shifted them to San Antonio.

Calls to the companies were not returned.

The case has generated intense interest in India, where it has been widely
reported, and in Silicon Valley, where many Indians hold a visa called the H-1B,
which was created for those in specialized occupations, including computer
programming.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 18, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS IN INS LIMBO GET THEIR DAY IN COURT LEGAL STATUS COULD BE DECIDED FOR
350,000

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1169 words


A federal appeals court in San Francisco is scheduled to hear arguments Monday
that eventually could decide the fate of an estimated 350,000 immigrants seeking
legal residency.

The closely watched, class-action suit seeks relief for a group of immigrants
who were improperly denied the opportunity to apply for amnesty under a sweeping
1986 immigration reform act. The act's amnesty provisions have since expired,
and many immigrants have spent the decade since trying to persuade the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to process their late applications.

Some of these immigrants now live under terms of a court order that bar them
from obtaining legal status and work permits. Thousands of Bay Area residents
are affected.

"Really, it's an issue of fairness because the people who were left out were
left out by no fault of their own; it was the errors of the immigration service
that they relied on," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose.

Amnesty advocates -- including immigrants involved in the case -- will hold a
rally Sunday in San Jose to raise awareness of the hearing and to draw attention
to what they say is a gross injustice.

The controversy stems from the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which
granted amnesty to nearly 3 million people who resided illegally in the United
States from 1982 through 1986.

In what has since been deemed as a misinterpretation of the landmark
legislation, INS front-desk workers refused to accept thousands of amnesty
applications, saying the immigrants were ineligible if they had left the country
at any time during the qualification period.

But the law states that "brief, casual and innocent" travel was permitted. Many
would-be applicants who were turned away because they took such trips for
vacations, or to get married or to visit terminally ill relatives were, in fact,
eligible under the law, according to a 1993 Supreme Court decision.

The so-called late-amnesty applicants eventually were allowed to submit their
paperwork, pursuant to a court order. Although many were given work permits, the
INS has refused to grant most of them legal status.

And throughout the past year, those who did get permits were barred from
renewing them. Today, more than a quarter of a million late-amnesty applicants
in Silicon Valley and elsewhere are trapped in legal limbo -- with much to lose.

Many continue to work and carry on their lives as if they have legal status:
They pay taxes, they own homes, their U.S.-born children are in college. But
beneath the surface is the anxiety and uncertainty of knowing they could lose
their jobs and face deportation, especially if the court decides against their
case.

"I'm under pressure and tension, because legally, I'm not supposed to work,"
said Manjit Singh, who nonetheless is employed by a technology company.

13-year-old case

Monday's hearing is the latest chapter in a 13-year-old lawsuit, Catholic Social
Services Inc. vs INS, which was ordered dismissed last July by a three-judge
panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. In December, a majority of the
9th Circuit judges agreed to toss out the panel's decision.

At the center of the new hearing, this time to be argued before 11 judges, is
whether those involved in the class-action suit can continue to take the case to
federal court, despite 1996 legislation that precludes them from pursuing legal
recourse at the federal level.

Meanwhile, INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said his agency must abide by a
provision of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996, which Congress passed to prevent late-amnesty seekers from filing
class-action lawsuits. "We have to follow the law as it is written,"
Strassberger said.

A court decision could take weeks.

The hearing could have three outcomes, according to the lead attorney for the
amnesty applicants, Peter Schey. The court could decide to permanently prevent
the applicants from pursuing their case, force the INS to process all the
pending applications in a timely manner or do nothing.

"It's clearly an important hearing, an important milestone in what has been a
very contentious and very extensive, drawn-out litigation," said Schey,
president of the Los Angeles-based Center for Human Rights and Constitutional
Law.

Regardless of any future court decisions, the INS maintains it will review any
individual application that qualifies for amnesty, as ordered by the 1993
Supreme Court ruling. Yet for the past seven years, Schey charged, the INS has
not processed a single amnesty application. An INS representative did not
contest that assertion.

As a result of the Supreme Court ruling, the INS in 1998 established a procedure
to identify the applications it was ordered to process; applicants have until
February 2001 to get in touch with the INS.

Lives on hold

Thousands of people's lives hang in the balance.

Some immigrants in Silicon Valley have lost their high-paying jobs, their homes
and returned to their countries, said Maria Jimenez with the pro-amnesty,
Houston-based Association for Residency and Citizenship of America, which has a
chapter in San Jose. The exact number of amnesty seekers in the Bay Area is
unknown; association members said it numbers in the thousands.

Kirpal Bajwa, who came to Silicon Valley from India in 1981, was told by the INS
that he was ineligible for amnesty because he went to Canada for 25 days during
the amnesty period.

He has held a number of production jobs at high-tech companies, but has been
unemployed since July 7, when the INS refused to renew his work permit. He's
supported by his wife, a medical technology worker from the Philippines whose
H-1B visa expires in a year.

"My life has entirely changed," Bajwa said. "It's too demoralizing; everything
is in shambles."

The Milpitas resident plans to attend the hearing, but he said the chances of
the 9th Circuit ruling in his favor are slim.

For Rosa, a 39-year-old mother of two, who owns a home on the Peninsula with her
husband, the uncertainty is unnerving.

"My husband and I are both trembling because our employers can find out we don't
have work permits," said Rosa, a nanny who asked that her last name not be
published. "This is very difficult for us because we can be deported at any
moment."

She said it pains her most to know that her teenage sons -- an aspiring graphic
artist and a budding business lawyer -- won't be able to fulfill their dreams of
attending a four-year state university because of their legal status.

"It's very frustrating; I've seen how they work so hard at getting good grades,
studying everyday," said Rosa, who is seeking late amnesty because she went to
Mexico to give birth in 1985 when she did not have health insurance.

She will attend Monday's court date with optimism.

"I have a lot of faith that something can be resolved as a result of the
hearing," Rosa said. "Imagine what it's like to be waiting, and waiting like
this, for 10 years."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Este articulo acerca inmigracion se publicara el proximo viernes 24 de
marzo en Nuevo Mundo, el semanario en espanol del San Jose Mercury News.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 23, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE PANEL APPROVES BILL DISMANTLING INS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 115 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be abolished under legislation
approved Wednesday by a House subcommittee. In its place, two separate bureaus
would enforce the nation's immigration laws and dole out benefits.

"The INS is broken and must be fixed," said GOP Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, chair
of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and claims. "The agency moves
from one crisis to the next, with no strategy on how to accomplish its
missions."

The subcommittee, on a 4-3 party-line vote, approved the restructuring measure.
The bill does not appear to be going anywhere in the Senate, predicted Rep.
Howard Berman, D-Mission Hills, a subcommittee member.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NATIONAL NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 24, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COLLEGES OPPOSE INS FEE REQUEST LEVY TO FUND DATABASE ON VISAS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 416 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, often criticized for a lack of
computer automation, wants to update many of its paper files by creating a
national database of foreigners who hold student visas.

But the proposal is strongly opposed by colleges and universities that would be
asked to collect from each of those students a $95 fee -- money the INS said it
needs to pay for the database.

"That's real onerous for colleges because we don't have a system set up to
collect fees that we would then pay to the government," said George Beers, dean
of international and distance education at Foothill College in Los Altos Hills,
home to 700 foreign students.

Local college officials also are concerned that the fee would unduly burden
student-visa holders, who already pay much higher tuition than legal residents
and U.S. citizens.

The proposal originated from the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996 under a provision that allows the INS to build an
electronic database containing each student's name, address, visa information,
academic standing and disciplinary action.

Students already provide that data to the INS, and the proposal would not
require additional reporting, an INS spokeswoman said.

"It simply requires the INS to automate electronically the information we
collect from students, so that we make the process less cumbersome for the
students, the schools and the INS," said Elaine Komis, an agency spokeswoman.

"Like any paper processing system, once you automate it, make it electronic,
things become more efficient," Komis said.

College officials say the process is not as easy as it sounds.

"There are a number of inefficient burdens to the students and the college,"
said Louis Gacenok, an international student adviser at San Jose State
University. For one, he said, it would be time-consuming to set up a way to
collect the fee.

In addition, he added, international students pay more than $1,000 a class at
state universities, while California residents pay much less, and an added fee
may cause some of San Jose State's 1,000 international students to flee the
country. Canada, Great Britain and Australia have been mounting strong efforts
to recruit international students, Gacenok said.

The INS requested and received comments on the fee, and it is evaluating the
proposal. Komis said the review process could take months before INS officials
decide whether to accept the proposal or modify it.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 24, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATOR SEEKS DELAY IN CUBA BOY'S RETURN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 168 words


As Cuban-Americans discussed possible strategies to keep the authorities from
returning 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez to his father in Cuba, Sen. Connie Mack,
R-Fla., moved to block immigration officials from taking Elian from his Miami
relatives anytime soon. The senator, who has sponsored a bill to grant the boy
American citizenship, has requested that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service delay action on Elian's return to Cuba until Congress acts on that
legislation or until the end of the congressional session, said Nancy Segerdahl,
a Mack representative.

Tuesday, Judge K. Michael Moore of U.S. District Court in Miami dismissed a
lawsuit requesting a political-asylum hearing for the boy, concluding that only
Attorney General Janet Reno could grant him asylum. Reno said after the ruling
that she would not allow asylum for Elian, who was found floating on an inner
tube off the Florida coast last Thanksgiving Day, and that he should be returned
as soon as possible to his father.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Attorney General Reno affirms a decision to return Elian Gonzalez to Cuba.
[000324 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 29, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BATTLE OVER CUBAN BOY REACHES BRINK INS: RELATIVES ASKED TO COMPLY IF APPEAL
REJECTED.

BYLINE: ANDRES VIGLUCCI AND JAY WEAVER, Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives, on the brink of losing custody of the
6-year-old boy to U.S. immigration authorities, will get one last chance today
to agree to a key government demand and stave off his threatened repatriation to
Cuba.

Federal officials summoned the boy's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, to a critical
afternoon meeting in Miami to determine Elian's fate, a showdown forced Tuesday
when his attorneys again refused to agree to surrender the boy should they lose
an abbreviated appeals-court battle to keep him in the United States.

Elian has been the subject of an international custody dispute since November,
when he was found floating on an inner tube off the Florida coast. His mother,
who was divorced from Elian's father, died along with 10 others when their boat
sank during the journey from Cuba to the United States.

Since shortly after the boy was rescued, Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials, backed by the Clinton administration, Cuban President Fidel Castro
and now a federal judge, have agreed that Elian should be returned to his father
in Cuba.

The Miami relatives have asked a federal appeals court in Atlanta to overturn
the judge's ruling. The court has scheduled arguments for the week of May 8.

If Lazaro Gonzalez won't sign the guarantee, the INS said, it will make good on
its threat to revoke the child's legal permission to remain in the country as of
9 a.m. Thursday and demand that he be turned over at a specific time and place.

"If they don't comply, they should be expecting specific instructions from the
INS on how to turn over the boy," said Maria Cardona of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

By the end of the day Tuesday, however, hours after a morning meeting between
both sides' attorneys failed to resolve the standoff, the relatives weren't
budging. Their attorneys would not say whether Gonzalez would even attend
today's meeting, set for 4 p.m. at INS headquarters in Miami.

"I wouldn't want my father to sign that," Marisleysis Gonzalez, Lazaro's
daughter, told CNN. "To me, it's betraying Elian."

Late Tuesday, Lazaro Gonzalez's attorney, Kendall Coffey, said his client had no
intention of delivering Elian to the INS, because the agency had refused the
Miami relatives' requests to conduct a psychological evaluation of the effect a
forcible removal could have on the boy.

But Gonzalez has assured the lawyers, Coffey said, that if federal agents come
to fetch Elian, he "will not obstruct them." This marks the first time the
relatives' attorneys have said their client will turn over the boy if agents
come to the house. The INS, with help of Miami police, has kept Elianunder
surveillance for some time now, a government official said Tuesday.

If Gonzalez refuses the government's conditions, independent legal experts say,
he would be taking a huge gamble. He would still have one legal avenue to stop
the INS from taking custody of Elian: seeking an emergency order from the
federal courts barring the government from acting.

But legal experts say winning such an order is a long shot for the relatives. If
the legal team fails to obtain one, the INS has the power to send the boy back
to Cuba swiftly.

"When someone's parole is revoked, that person is usually taken back into the
custody of the INS immediately and sent back to their country right away," said
Michael Ray, president of the South Florida chapter of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

Miami's streets remained quiet as most Cuban exile protest leaders hewed to a
wait-and-see attitude Tuesday. Armando Gutierrez, a media liaison for the Miami
relatives, urged calm over Spanish-language radio.

Some exile leaders, however, were vowing active resistance should the government
move in to remove Elian.

About 100 demonstrators gathered outside the Gonzalez home in Little Havana in
response to a call by the anti-Castro Vigilia Mambisa, which has said it will
form a human chain around the home if the government tries to remove Elian.

The child's Miami relatives last week allowed ABC's Diane Sawyer to spend two
days with Elian. The result was his first extended interview, being broadcast
this week on "Good Morning America."

In Tuesday's segment, ABC said the boy indicated he doesn't want to return to
Cuba. But the network said it decided not to air the remark because of the
"inflamed climate" surrounding the case.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Marisleysis Gonzalez, a cousin of Elian Gonzalez, 6, speaks with journalists
from CNN and other media Tuesday in Miami. She said agreeing to an appeals-court
review would be "betraying Elian."
[000329 FR 4A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 30, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CASTRO: FAMILY CAN JOIN ELIAN

BYLINE: JUAN O. TAMAYO, JAY WEAVER AND ANDRES VIGLUCCI, Knight, Ridder News
Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1002 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Cuban President Fidel Castro threw both sides in the custody battle over Elian
Gonzalez for a loop Wednesday night with a staggering proposal to send the
6-year-old boy's father and family, classmates, teachers and pediatrician --
among others -- to live with him in the United States while a court appeal over
his fate is concluded.

"The passports are ready," Castro said. "And of course the airplane is ready."

Castro's announcement, broadcast live on Cuban TV, came in the middle of five
hours of tense negotiations between Elian's Miami relatives and federal
officials that failed to produce an agreement that might avert Elian's immediate
return to Cuba. Both sides agreed to resume talks at 9:30 a.m. today.

In the meantime, immigration authorities said, they would put off by 24 hours a
threatened revocation of Elian's legal permission to remain in the country. That
would mean that the Immigration and Naturalization Service could move to demand
custody of Elian on Friday if a deal is not reached today.

The sticking point of the negotiations is when and how Elian's great-uncle,
Lazaro Gonzalez, would transfer Elian to INS custody should he lose a federal
court appeal now under way.

Tense talks

The talks took place in an atmosphere heavy with political recrimination and
threats of disruptive protests, as exile leaders and elected officials in Miami
and Tallahassee, Fla., aimed a stream of harsh words at Attorney General Janet
Reno and President Clinton.

One of the most controversial messages of defiance came from Miami-Dade Mayor
Alex Penelas, who, backed by other local mayors, vowed not to help federal
authorities take custody of Elian.

"If blood is shed on the streets of this community as a result of what the
Justice Department does, yes, I will hold them responsible," Penelas said.

In Washington, Clinton countered: "I like the mayor very much, but I still
believe in the rule of law here. . . . Whatever the decision that is ultimately
made, the rest of us ought to obey it."

Castro's proposal to send a virtual village to Washington surprised U.S.
officials who had been monitoring the situation in Miami.

The offer went well beyond Castro's previous proposal to allow Juan Miguel
Gonzalez to travel to the United States only to pick up his son and return him
to Cuba. U.S. officials said the scenario is so unusual they remained skeptical.

Castro himself said it was "like bringing Cardenas to Washington," a reference
to the town in north-central Cuba where Elian's family lives. The offer is
designed, he said, to speed Elian's "reintegration" into Cuban society.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said she could not comment on the Castro offer.
"We don't have any information on that. I don't know what to tell you," she
said.

State Department officials said the boy's father had not applied for a U.S. visa
by late Wednesday.

The boy's Miami relatives, also clearly unprepared for the offer, had little to
say after their meeting with the government broke up around 9 p.m.

"The family is not going to agree to anything that's not in Elian's best
interests, because Elian has suffered a lot," said Armando Gutierrez, a
representative of the Miami relatives.

But Castro's proposal may be intended to call the Miami relatives' bluff. The
relatives have said they would consider turning over Elian to his father if he
came accompanied by his new wife and child to ensure he was not being coerced by
the Cuban government.

The delegation would include, besides Gonzalez and his new family, a favorite
cousin of Elian's, 12 of his first-grade classmates in Cardenas, including best
pal Hansel Orlando, plus Elian's teacher, a psychiatrist and a legal adviser.

Castro described the group's members as "indispensable, according to the
doctors' criteria, to proceed without losing a minute to Elian's re-adaptation."

Lodging arranged

Father, wife and two sons would stay at the home of the head of the Cuban
Diplomatic Mission in Washington, Fernando Remirez de Estenoz, described as a
medium-size split-level in suburban Chevy Chase with two guest rooms. The others
will be housed with diplomats at the Cuban Interests Section.

The only conditions, Castro insisted, are U.S. assurances that Gonzalez will
have physical custody of Elian throughout the legal process, and that Washington
"is doing everything required to expedite the boy's return to Cuba."

During a day of escalating tensions, exile leaders angry at the government's
tough posture said they were preparing street demonstrations, including
blockades of Miami International Airport and the Port of Miami-Dade, if
immigration authorities try to fulfill their threat to quickly send Elian home.

About 4:30 p.m., a caravan of dump trucks, vans and sport-utility vehicles
circled the six blocks around the house -- blasting horns in a cacophony of
protest. Organized by the Democracy Movement, it was a sign of what could be
done to stop federal marshals from picking up Elian should the situation come to
that.

Thousands attended a prayer vigil in Little Havana on Wednesday night to show
support for Elian's Miami relatives. Elian stayed home.

Elian has been at the center of an international tug of war since he was found
floating in an inner tube off Fort Lauderdale on Thanksgiving Day. His mother
and 10 other people drowned when their boat sank as they fled Cuba.

Immigration officials immediately placed the boy in the home of his great-uncle,
but in January, federal officials ruled that Elian should be returned to his
father.

The Miami family then filed a federal court suit to challenge the federal
decision and to request an asylum hearing for the boy, but last week a Miami
federal judge ruled against them. The family then appealed to the 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, which on Monday set oral arguments for May
8.

CHART: ASSOCIATED PRESS
The struggle over Elian
[Chart not taken in database]
Source:

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Chart;
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Elian Gonzalez
[000330 FR 1A]
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Juan Miguel Gonzalez
[000330 FR 1A]
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Lazaro Gonzalez
[000330 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 7, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOY'S FATHER WAITS IN D.C. U.S. BEGINS EFFORT TO RETRIEVE ELIAN FROM MIAMI

BYLINE: JAY WEAVER, FRANK DAVIES AND FRANCES ROBLES, Knight Ridder, News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1103 words


Federal authorities today will start to transfer custody of Elian Gonzalez from
his Miami relatives to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who said on his
dramatic arrival in Washington on Thursday that he hopes to return to Cuba with
his son as soon as possible.

But they acknowledged that it could take several days to transfer custody,
depending on the degree of resistance from the Miami relatives who have been
caring for Elian since he was rescued off the coast of Florida in November.

"With great anguish, I saw how my son has been submitted to cruel psychological
pressures" in the United States, Gonzalez said early Thursday at Dulles
International Airport outside Washington.

Gonzalez is scheduled to meet today with federal law enforcement officials to
press his case. The meeting with Department of Justice and Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials, including Attorney General Janet Reno, is
designed to help encourage Elian's Miami relatives to turn the 6-year-old boy
over to his father.

Many fear that such a transfer -- if forced -- could spark violence in Miami's
Little Havana community, where hundreds of protesters opposed to Cuban President
Fidel Castro have pledged to fight any U.S. attempt to take Elian away from his
relatives there.

Thursday afternoon, talks over how and when the boy would be returned finally
broke down between Elian's Miami relatives and immigration officials, who have
been negotiating for six days.

Immigration officials said the talks failed because the relatives were unwilling
even to discuss how to turn the boy over to authorities and ultimately his
father.

"We are greatly disappointed that the attorneys for the Miami relatives continue
to insist on discussing whether to transfer Elian instead of how to transfer him
to his father," the Justice Department said in a statement. "We will now take
steps to move that process forward."

The Associated Press reported that Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, an attorney for the
Miami relatives, said talks had ended primarily because the government declined
to promise not to remove Elian.

"The government will not guarantee that they will not try to take Elian away in
the middle of the night," Garcia-Pedrosa said.

Justice Department officials said they would move quickly to transfer custody of
the boy to his father. Clinton administration officials expect to take a series
of steps over the next few days to obtain physical control of the boy, who has
been living with his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez.

They raised the possibility that they would obtain a court order demanding that
Elian be taken to a federal building and surrendered on a particular day next
week. Officials said the day is likely to be Wednesday. The Miami relatives
could face criminal contempt charges if they failed to turn over Elian.

The officials have been deeply reluctant to discuss what they consider the worst
of their options: sending U.S. deputy marshals into the home in Little Havana to
get the boy. Meanwhile, officials sent 120 federal police officers to Miami on
Thursday to protect federal buildings and employees in the event of civil
unrest.

Garcia-Pedrosa called the government actions "unfair and dangerous."

"Elian has not had his day in court. This is a very sad day in the history of
American jurisprudence," he said. "No court of law has ever said this boy must
go back to Cuba. No court of law has ever said that the child's father in Cuba
is the only person in the world who is entitled to speak for the child."

Ruling in father's favor

U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore ruled last month that Reno did not abuse
her powers when she ruled that only the father can speak for the boy. The father
asked the INS to withdraw the boy's political-asylum request, which was filed by
the Miami relatives on Elian's behalf.

The Miami relatives, however, have appealed Moore's decision to the U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in Atlanta, where it is scheduled to be heard May 11.

Juan Gonzalez's arrival will speed up the return of Elian to his father, top
U.S. officials said.

"I hope soon to embrace my son, Elian Gonzalez Brotons, for the first time in
over four months," said Gonzalez, squinting into the sunlight of a 40-degree
dawn at Dulles, wife Nersy and infant son Hianny at his side. "We are Elian's
true family and we love him very much." Gonzalez, 31, was divorced from Elian's
mother.

Gonzalez and his family are staying at the Bethesda, Md., home of Fernando
Remirez, Cuba's top diplomat in the United States, as they await the return of
Elian.

Gonzalez arrived around 8 a.m. Thursday and came out of the house about two
hours later to shake hands and say goodbye to several visitors.

He re-emerged later in the evening to see off Reps. Maxine Waters, D-Los
Angeles, and Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., after an hourlong conversation at the house.
Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas, also paid a two-hour visit.

"I saw his eyes get moist when I started to talk to him about my children . . .
and he said, 'What do I have to do to prove I love my child?' " Serrano said. He
called Gonzalez "a humble, soft-spoken man who only raised his voice when he
talked about the folks in Miami who he feels are not acting in the boy's best
interest."

Protracted tug of war

The heated custody battle began in late November, when Elian's mother died along
with 10 others after their boat sank during a crossing from Cuba. Besides Elian,
two other people survived, were granted asylum and are now living in Florida,
officials said.

Speaking through an interpreter Thursday, Juan Gonzalez expressed his "deepest
gratitude" to the American people but also sharply criticized U.S. politicians,
lawyers, journalists and the Cuban community in Miami for "harassing" his son.

"To witness his mother's disappearance and to miraculously survive the sinking
of his boat was already enough suffering for a boy barely 5 years old. Add to
this the turnover, in temporary custody, to some distant relatives who never saw
him before or had a single previous meeting with him," he said.

Gonzalez complained that he may have to wait up to two months in the United
States for the appeals process to be completed. He asked U.S. officials to allow
"a small group of Elian's classmates, teachers, as well as psychologists,
pediatricians and nurses" to join him.

Castro on Thursday said he expects Juan Gonzalez, his wife and child to be in
the United States "between 10 days and two months," although he believes that
"the American authorities are interested in solving the problem as soon as
possible."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Page 20A
Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Elian Gonzalez, left, listens to his cousin Felix Meana read from a book at the
home of his Miami relatives Thursday.
[000407 FR 1A]
PHOTO: NEW YORK TIMES
Juan Gonzalez, with infant son, Hianny, waits for his wife to leave the plane at
Dulles International.
[000407 FR 1A]
PHOTO: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
Juan Miguel Gonzalez, holding his infant son, is seen off by Cuban President
Fidel Castro.
[000407 FR 20A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 11, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT RULING FAVORS DETAINED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 530 words


The government does not have a right to indefinitely detain immigrants convicted
of crimes who have been ordered deported but whose home countries won't accept
them, a federal appeals court ruled Monday.

The decision by a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
San Francisco affects up to 500 people who are being detained by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in several Western states -- including about 320 in
California.

Although the ruling suggests hundreds of inmates could be released after their
criminal sentences are served, it was not immediately known if the INS would
comply, file an appeal or take the matter to the U.S. Supreme Court.

"We'll get the decision and review it and decide how to proceed," said Bill
Strassberger, an INS spokesman in Washington, D.C.

The case stems from a Cambodian immigrant in the Seattle area who was convicted
at age 17 of manslaughter in a gang-related shooting. Kim Ho Ma, now 22,
completed his sentence in about two years, then was handed to the INS for
deportation, as ordered by a 1996 immigration reform law.

But Cambodia does not have a repatriation agreement with the United States and
would not permit Ma's return -- thus leading the INS, in itsinterpretation of
the law, to detain him until diplomatic relations between the two countries
improve. Immigrants from Vietnam and Laos face similar situations.

Fearing that their detentions could be indefinite, Ma and dozens of the
estimated 4,000 such inmates nationwide have petitioned state and federal
courts, claiming their constitutional rights were being violated. While some
courts have ruled in favor of the government, Monday's ruling was the first time
a federal appeals court sided with the detainees, attorneys said.

"We believe it's a decision that's consistent with basic concepts of freedom
that are at the heart of our country and, more specifically, the constitution
and the way we look at statutes," said Jay W. Stansell, one of Ma's assistant
public federal defenders in Seattle.

Ma's lawyers argued that the INS should not be allowed to hold someone more than
90 days, unless it can prove that the detainee can be deported in the
"reasonably foreseeable future."

But the INS countered that it has the right to detain criminal immigrants who
are considered dangerous.

"We continue to maintain we have to do our best to balance the liberty interest
of the detainee against the responsibility that Congress has given us to not
release any individual who might pose a danger to the community," Strassberger
said.

Although Ma was released, he was later arrested for suspicion of domestic
violence, Strassberger said.

A year ago, the INS established a policy to review the files of at least 4,000
detainees. As a result, Strassberger said, 1,000 have been released.

Once released, the former detainees are not granted citizenship nor permanent
residency. They are temporary residents, tracked by the INS until their home
countries agree to take them back, Strassberger said.

Strassberger and attorneys for the detainees agreed there is a good possibility
the case will reach the U.S. Supreme Court.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 25, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FATHER'S WISHES PREVAIL, JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Trying to keep a federal court decision intact that would return Elian Gonzalez
to Cuba, the Justice Department said Monday that U.S. officials have properly
weighed the wishes of the 6-year-old boy's father against the asylum request
from relatives in Miami.

"It would be a substantial intrusion into the realm of parental authority for a
distant relative to be able to trigger government procedures concerning the
parent's 6-year-old son that could seriously disrupt the parent-child
relationship and family stability," the department said in an 83-page appeals
court filing in Atlanta.

Relatives in the United States have gone to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals,
challenging a District Court decision that upholds immigration officials'
handling of the asylum application made on Elian's behalf.

The relatives went to court after Attorney General Janet Reno decided to respect
the father's determination not to pursue an asylum claim on Elian's behalf.

The Justice Department said Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner
Doris Meissner "strikes an appropriate balance by respecting the father's right
to speak for his son, unless there is an objective basis for asylum indicating a
divergence of interests between father and son."

The department also noted that there is an "absence of evidence that Elian will
suffer persecution if he returns home."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Elian Gonzalez Saga
RELATED STORY: page 1A, 11A, 12A, 13A

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 31, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FORMER INS WORKER GUILTY OF PASSING SECRETS TO CUBA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 114 words


A senior U.S. immigration official with a 34-year career that included access to
classified information about Cuban defectors and law enforcement sources was
found guilty Tuesday in Miami by a federal jury of disclosing government
secrets.

Mariano Faget, 54, who came to the United States from Cuba as a teenager and
later became a naturalized U.S. citizen, was an acting deputy director of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami. He was arrested in
February on charges that he revealed secrets to a lifelong friend and business
partner with connections to Cuba. Faget, who faces a maximum punishment of 10
years in prison, will be sentenced in August.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:;
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Faget
[000531 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 14, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOCUMENTARY SHOWS FEAR, FLAWS OF INS ASYLUM PROCESS

BYLINE: CHARLIE MCCOLLUM, Mercury News

SECTION: SILICON VALLEY LIFE; Pg. 16E

LENGTH: 693 words


Well-Founded Fear
(star)(star)(star)

8:30 tonight

FOR IMMIGRATION officer Gerald Brown, the political asylum case of Chinese poet
and political dissident Huang Xiang was a no-brainer.

"His case was a pretty easy case to adjudicate," said Brown in a recent
interview. "It was well-documented. He had legal representation and . . . it was
an easy call."

But for Immigration and Naturalization Service officers who have to deal with
political asylum cases, many are not easy, almost all are painful and most take
place out of the limelight without the sort of attention Elian Gonzalez has
attracted over the past few months.

It's all these human elements of a political process that are the core of
"Well-Founded Fear," an engrossing and timely documentary that airs tonight as
part of PBS's "P.O.V." series. (KQED, Ch. 9, will follow "Well-Founded Fear"
with "Bay Window: No Turning Back," its own documentary on immigration issues in
the Bay Area.)

40,000 cases per year

Each year, the INS deals with about 40,000 requests for political asylum.
Applicants must present supporting evidence and then convince a hearings officer
-- usually in less than 90 minutes -- that he or she has "a well-founded fear of
persecution based on race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular
group, or political opinion."

During the past year, only 30 percent of those seeking political asylum received
sanctuary in the United States. And after watching the 11 cases presented over
this documentary's two hours, viewers may come away with theimpression that it's
amazing the percentage is that high.

Even with a conscientious officer such as Brown handling the case, the process
is clearly based most often not on the objective facts of the case but rather on
the subjective impressions of INS officials. Many of the "facts" are hard to
substantiate. Many of the applicants speak, at best, halting English and are not
capable of articulating their fears. When a translator is introduced, the
results are often appalling, with a total disconnect between what is actually
being said and the translation provided to the hearing officer.

(The makers of "Well-Founded Fear" uses subtitles throughout to demonstrate just
how alarmingly bad the translations can be.)

Throughout the documentary, the officers are extraordinarily candid about the
INS imperfections -- suggesting that the process is all but random and totally
subject to the whims and prejudices of those who run the system.

The INS, for whatever reasons, opened the normally closed doors of this process
to filmmakers Shari Robertson and Michael Camerini and gave them an amazing
amount of access to a string of cases ranging from Huang's to less clear-cut
applications, such a Romanian woman who claims to be persecuted because she is
Anglican.

Speaking for themselves

Although it's clear that Robertson and Camerini find the INS system for
determining such cases to be flawed, the greatest strength of "Well-Founded
Fear" is that the applicants and the INS officers are allowed to speak for
themselves. There are no talking heads, and there is little narration.

And while that approach can result in some confusing sequences -- "Well-Founded
Fear" jumps from one case to another with almost no transition -- it also makes
for high drama. In one section, for example, Huang talks about the physical
wounds left by the torture he suffered in China -- and the emotional trauma it
causes him to talk about his pain with INS officers and physicians.

"I do not dare remember my past. I do not dare!" he cries at one point.

"Well-Founded Fear" is not easy television. It challenges the viewer to actually
pay attention to what's taking place, and the stories of those seeking asylum
make for some very uncomfortable viewing.

But the documentary is rewarding in the sense that it will open the eyes of many
viewers to just how flawed a system the INS has created to deal with these
immigration issues. As one applicant says, "How can you express a life
experience in a few minutes? It's one thing to tell a story about something.
It's a completely different thing to live it."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LEO HSU
Statue of Liberty symbolizes sanctuary, but "Well-Founded Fear" focuses on
reality for asylum seekers.
[000614 SV 16E]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 27, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH LOOKS TO DIVIDE INS WOOING LATINOS, HE SAYS AGENCY'S 'MIXED SIGNALS' ARE A
PROBLEM

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Texas Gov. George W. Bush told a Latino audience Monday that he intends to split
the Immigration and Naturalization Service into two agencies to help ease the
way for legal immigrants.

In a speech to the League of United Latin American Citizens, Bush said the
agency's dual role of enforcing immigration laws while processing legal
immigrants "sends mixed signals to the people we're trying to help."

The Republican presidential candidate also distanced himself from
anti-immigration forces by denouncing the "English only" movement. While Bush
said he supports border enforcement, the thrust of his remarks was to strongly
endorse immigration and cultural diversity.

The nation's 32 million Latinos are the fastest-growing segment of the American
population. They are expected to cast 5.4 percent of November's vote. Their
growing political strength, especially in mega-states California, Texas, New
York and Florida, makes them a top target for both major political parties. Vice
President Al Gore is scheduled to speak to the LULAC convention Friday.

Bush's outreach to Latino voters has been a hallmark of his political career in
Texas. It illustrates his effort to project "compassionate conservatism," a
stance that broadens his political appeal beyond that of such Republicans as
former California Gov. Pete Wilson, whose strident opposition to Mexican
immigrants alienated them from the GOP.

LULAC, which claims 115,000 members, is the nation's oldest and largest Latino
group.

"Texas is a better place for the Hispanic influence," Bush said. "Family values
don't stop at the Rio Grande river. People are coming to America because they
are moms and dads trying to feed their children. As long as people are coming to
feed their families, our country must be mindful that they're human beings as
well."

Bush said splitting the INS would let one agency focus on law enforcement while
the other concentrated on service to legal immigrants and foreign visitors.

"People ought to be asking the question, 'How can I help you, what can I do to
help you fill out paperwork?' We ought to be saying loud and clear to people
that the INS is to help families and to help people understand the maze of rules
and regulations," he said.

Bush received a standing ovation.

His Democratic rival criticized his proposal, as did anti-immigration groups,
for different reasons.

"We don't need to create another bureaucracy," said Doug Hattaway, a Gore
representative. "We can strike the right balance between law enforcement and
customer service under a streamlined INS."

Hattaway said the Clinton administration is working with Congress on a plan that
would establish separate lines of authority for the two roles within the INS.

Ira Mehlman, a Los Angeles-based representative of the Federation forAmerican
Immigration Reform, a leading anti-immigration group, said Bush's emphasis on
customer service is misplaced.

"The customer here is the American public. When you start viewing immigrants as
customers, it changes the whole dynamic," Mehlman said. "We are the people who
are offering this privilege to people from other countries."

In rejecting efforts to make English the nation's official language, Bush said
he favors "English plus" programs that promote bilingualism.

"English-plus says we're all Americans, and proudly so."

Democrats countered Bush's message of open arms to immigrants by attacking his
record in Texas. State Sen. Mario Gallegos of Houston accused Bush of ignoring
the plight of shantytowns along the Texas border with Mexico.

Yet Gallegos acknowledged that Bush had made inroads into the traditionally
Democratic Latino community. The state lawmaker said his trip to Washington was
funded by the Texas Democratic Party to help blunt Bush's appeal to Latinos.

"The guy's got the money. He's going to send the message, and if you don't have
anybody countering the message, it sticks. That's been happening," Gallegos
said. "No more free rides."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ERIC DRAPER -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
George W. Bush greets audience members during the League of United Latin
American Citizens convention in Washington on Monday.
[000627 FR 3A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 6, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH CRITICIZES INS DELAYS LATINOS: IN SAN DIEGO, TEXAN SAYS HE WANTS TO 'CHANGE
THE CULTURE' OF AGENCY.

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Texas Gov. George W. Bush said Wednesday he wants to "fight the stereotype" that
Republicans don't have the "corazon" -- Spanish for heart -- to understand the
interests of Latinos.

Speaking before 1,500 members of the National Council of La Raza, one of the
nation's largest Latino activist organizations, the GOP presidential candidate
said he was targeting Latino events and neighborhoods in California.

"Republicans have got a lot of work to do here in the state of California. I
like to be seen in neighborhoods sometimes where Republicans aren't seen," he
said.

Bush used the setting to highlight his proposal to split the Immigration and
Naturalization Service into two agencies, one to guard the border and another to
process naturalization and immigration applications.

On Wednesday, he proposed spending $500 million over five years to reduce the
processing time for all immigration applications to six months.

"It doesn't matter which party you're from," Bush said, "you've got to admit
that when it takes three to five years to process paperwork in the INS, that's
too long. It's time to reform the INS."

In 1998, Congress appropriated new funds to cut down the agency's notorious
delays, which in California now range from 11 months to 29 months.

Two years ago, the INS set a goal of six months to be reached thisOctober,
although not every region in the country is expected to meet it.

INS officials in California disputed the Bush campaign's assertions that
adjustment of status applications, submitted by those seeking permanent
residency, take 52 months in the state. The average processing time for those
applications ranges from 18 months in the San Francisco region, which includes
San Jose, to 29 months in San Diego.

"It's still too long," said INS spokeswoman Sharon Gavin. "But we are working to
bring it down."

Bush also said he wanted to "change the culture" of the INS to be more
customer-friendly. The San Jose INS office is the site of a customer-service
pilot program, where INS workers will come in on Saturdays, for example, to
process applications.

Yet, Bush won loud applause when he criticized the INS as "too bureaucratic,"
and said, "It's too stuck in the past."

For the second week in a row, Bush and Democratic rival Al Gore, who addressed
the convention Monday, have made appearances at major Latino gatherings, a sign
that the battle for the fastest-growing segment of the electorate is heating up.

A recent Mercury News poll of 2,721 likely Latinos voters nationwide showed Gore
leading Bush by 16 percentage points. In California, the vice president has a
34-point lead.

Bush told the audience that he would continue border enforcement but relax
restrictions to allow spouses and minor children of permanent residents to apply
for visitor visas while their immigration applications are pending.

"I want to remind people that family values do not stop at the Rio Grande
river," he said. "I want to remind people that people are coming to our country
to find work so that they can feed their families."

But in comments to reporters after the speech, he said he advocated continuing
current tough border enforcement initiatives. And, asked about calls by Mexico's
president-elect, Vicente Fox, for a more open border, Bush responded that he
needed clarification.

When Gore appeared before the convention, the vice president laid out his plan
to have Medicare cover prescription drugs and criticized the governor's record
on providing health insurance to poor Latino families in Texas. Last week, he
linked Bush to large oil companies, which he blamed for high gas prices.

Bush shot back Wednesday. "I know we don't have an energy policy. And I know we
don't have a drug policy in Medicare under this administration. Nothing has
changed," the governor said. "He doesn't want to take the blame during the
course of a presidential campaign."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 2000: The Presidency
RELATED STORIES: PAGE 4A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
Conceding "Republicans have got a lot of work to do," George W. Bush on
Wednesday addressed the National Council of La Raza. He also received a portrait
of himself from the group's president, Raul Yzaguirre.
[000706 FR 4A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 18, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CHARGES STAND AGAINST PRINCESS

BYLINE: DARA AKIKO WILLIAMS, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A judge Monday refused to dismiss charges of illegally entering the United
States against a princess from Bahrain who used forged military documents to
flee her country and marry a U.S. Marine.

The ruling by immigration judge Ignacio Fernandez prevents the princess,
19-year-old Meriam Al Khalifa, from applying for permanent residency in the
United States without seeking political asylum.

Al Khalifa plans to apply for asylum on the grounds that she faces extreme
persecution for marrying a non-Muslim if she returns to her country, said her
attorney, Jan Joseph Bejar.

"I can guarantee you it is not just 'Daddy is mad at me,' " Bejar told
reporters, but he declined to be more specific.

Al Khalifa's father is a cousin of Bahrain's head of state, Emir Hamad bin Isa
Al Khalifa.

Bahraini royalty rarely marry outside the family circle. They also belong to
Islam's mainstream Sunni sect. Islam forbids Muslim women to marry non-Muslim
men, though Muslim men may marry outside their faith.

Al Khalifa has up to a year under U.S. law to apply for political asylum. She
faces charges of misrepresenting her identity in order to enter the United
States and not having proper documents to enter the country.

Al Khalifa lives with her husband, Pfc. Jason Johnson, at Camp Pendleton, a
Marine base 40 miles north of San Diego.

Al Khalifa and Johnson met last year at a mall in the Bahraini capital of
Manama, a small island nation off the eastern coast of Saudi Arabia that also is
the regional base for the U.S. Navy's 5th Fleet. Johnson, 25, was assigned to a
security unit.

As his deployment was ending late last year, he forged U.S. military documents
that Al Khalifa used to fly to the United States on a commercial plane. She
dressed in baggy clothes and wore a New York Yankees baseball cap in order to
resemble an American. Immigration officials in Chicago discovered the ruse.

The couple later married in Las Vegas.

The Marine Corps demoted Johnson from lance corporal to private first class and
assigned him extra duty.

A Bahraini Embassy spokesman in Washington said her family is eager for her to
return and that she would not face persecution.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Bahraini princess Meriam Al Khalifa and her husband, Pfc. Jason Johnson, arrive
at her immigration hearing Monday.
[000718 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 21, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

APPEALS COURT SAYS INS CAN'T REVOKE CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HANLEY, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Invoking the Beatles and George Gershwin in a rare unanimous decision by an
11-judge panel, a federal appeals court has ruled that immigration officials
cannot act on their own to denaturalize citizens but must take such cases to
court.

The decision Thursday by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reverses a split
opinion by one of its own three-judge panels and concurs with the reasoning of a
Seattle judge -- who said the power to denaturalize citizens is not inherent in
the power to naturalize them.

The opinion has the practical effect of indefinitely extending a 1998 nationwide
injunction that suspended the Immigration and Naturalization Service's attempts
to revoke the citizenships of more than 6,000 immigrants the agency has
identified as having failed to disclose past crimes or arrests. (The case is
Gorbach vs. Reno, 98-35723.)

Judge Andrew J. Kleinfeld, author of the 9th Circuit ruling, noted that under
rules passed by Congress in 1990, the power to naturalize citizens was shifted
from the courts to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

However, these statutes, he explained, did not grant the INS authority to
denaturalize citizens, but rather, only the power to cancel certificates of
citizenship. And loss of certification does not deprive immigrants of legal
residency status but makes them vulnerable to deportation for certain crimes.

"There is no general principle that what one can do, one can undo. It sounds
good, just as the Beatles' lyrics -- 'Nothing you can know that isn't
known/Nothing you can see that isn't shown' -- sound good," Kleinfeld wrote,
citing lyrics from "All You Need Is Love" and then a song title from Gershwin's
"Porgy and Bess."

"But as Sportin' Life said, 'It ain't necessarily so.' "

One a more serious note, Kleinfeld called U.S. citizenship one of "our most
valuable rights," and concluded that the INS "cannot simply decide, without
statutory authorization, to create an internal executive procedure to deprive
people of those rights without going to court."

Carole Florman, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department, which oversees
the INS, said officials would review the opinion and then "take any appropriate
steps." She declined further comment.

Jonathan S. Franklin, the Washington attorney representing 10 immigrants who
filed the initial lawsuit after being targeted by the INS, praised the decision.

"We are pleased that the court has confirmed that the INS cannot take away the
precious right of United States' citizenship without first proving its case in a
court of law," he said.

Franklin's clients were among the more than 6,300 immigrants the INS had
targeted for review after a 1997 audit. They took their challenge to Seattle,
where U.S. District Judge Barbara Rothstein issued an injunction that suspended
the processing in 1998.

On appeal by the government, a panel of the 9th Circuit Appeals ruled 2-1 in
June 1999 that the INS could act on its own to withdraw naturalized citizenship
in administrative proceedings.

But the full 9th Circuit said a majority of its 21 active judges had voted to
set the ruling aside and refer the case to the 11-judge panel for a new hearing.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 28, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANAMA ACCUSED OF IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS AND GLENN GARVIN, Knight Ridder News, Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. Embassy in Panama has tracked a widening immigrant-smuggling scandal to
the doorstep of President Ernesto Perez Balladares and accused top Panamanian
officials of helping thousands of Chinese sneak into the United States.

In recent weeks, knowledgeable U.S. officials told Knight Ridder News Service,
the embassy tried to punish at least five senior Panamanian officials --
including President Perez Balladares' most trusted adviser and his personal
secretary -- by revoking their visas for travel to the United States.

The scandal surfaced earlier this month when the Miami Herald reported that the
embassy had accused Samantha Smith, Panama's intelligence chief, of taking part
in a ring that sold thousands of Panamanian visas to migrants from China, Hong
Kong and Taiwan.

Chinese migrants, often under the control of professional smugglers called
"snake-heads," have been known to pay $15,000 for tourist visas to Panama and
other Latin American countries. From there, they make their way to Mexico and
slip across the U.S. border.

Smith denies any role in the smuggling. But she did admit approving about 140
tourist visas that she said Perez Balladares had demanded for Chinese who
plainly were not tourists.

But the embassy's attempt to revoke the Panamanian officials' visas was thwarted
by U.S. Justice Department officials, who angrily accused U.S. diplomats in
Panama of jeopardizing a criminal investigation into the upper levels of the
Panamanian government.

According to knowledgeable officials who asked not to be identified, Deputy
Assistant Attorney General Mark Richards dealt the U.S. ambassador to Panama,
Simon Ferro, a scorching rebuke at a Washington meeting.

Attempts to contact Ferro on Friday were deflected by embassy spokesman Joao
Ecsodi, who said only that "we do not, as a matter of policy, discuss individual
visa cases."

The embassy's plan to revoke the visas -- including those held by Gabriel
Castro, Panama's comptroller-general, and Romulo Abad, the president's secretary
-- is now awaiting the outcome of the criminal investigation, the U.S. officials
said.

Perez Balladares, who leaves office Wednesday, could not be reached for comment,
but he has denied any role in immigrant smuggling. The disclosures threaten to
mar further a presidency already characterized by strained relations with
Washington and allegations of corruption.

The list of Panamanian officials targeted by the embassy includes many of those
in the upper echelon of Perez Balladares' government, starting with Castro, who
is the president's senior adviser and has also been the president's chief of
intelligence and head of Panama's version of the FBI.

Castro, who is hospitalized in Panama awaiting major surgery, was not available
for comment.

Others included:

* Romulo Abad, the president's personal secretary, described by several
Panamanian officials as Perez Balladares' right-hand man and the one who carried
out his most sensitive assignments.

* Raul Montenegro, who was forced out as the country's justice minister late
last year over an unrelated matter. He is now a senior figure in Perez
Balladares' Revolutionary Democratic Party (PRD).

* German Gil Sanchez, former head of immigration and Montenegro's brother in
law, who was fired earlier this year. His daughter Melissa Sanchez, an
immigration lawyer, was also on the embassy's list of visas to be yanked.

* Sami Far, deputy head of immigration and a close associate of Abad.

Sources said the list also included several Panamanian congressmen and other PRD
officials.

The name on the embassy list that is likely to cause the biggest buzz in both
Panama and Washington is Castro's. The comptroller-general's office, which
Castro now heads, is similar to the U.S. General Accounting Office, functioning
as a sort of watchdog on government finances.

But Castro has held even more delicate positions in the Perez Balladares
government. He set up Panama's first office to monitor money-laundering and
coordinated closely with U.S. law enforcement agencies working against drug
trafficking.

Later, as head of intelligence, he was Panama's chief liaison with the CIA and
other U.S. intelligence agencies.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no credit]
President Ernesto Perez Balladares
[990828 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLER GETS LIFE TERM IN CUBA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 110 words


A Cuban-born U.S. resident was sentenced to life imprisonment for smuggling
migrants and a second got 30 years after a trial in Havana, Cuba, that showed
the dangers some Cuban immigrants will risk to improve their work situation or
be with their families.

Joel Dorta Garcia, 27, a resident of Key West, Fla., became the first person to
be sentenced to life for people smuggling under a new toughening of Cuba's penal
code. David Garcia Capote, 32, who immigrated illegally to Miami earlier this
year, was sentenced to 30 years.

The men were arrested July 3 after the 32-foot outboard boat they were piloting
off the coast of Mariel flipped over.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 20, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DETENTION CENTERS BAR GROUPS OF COUNSELORS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 157 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has barred a group of Roman Catholic
counselors from detention centers in the New York area in what the group is
calling an effort to limit asylum seekers' access to advocacy organizations.
Three area centers hold about 600 people, some of whom have been in detention
for over a year.

"They clearly do not want detainees to speak to us about the experience of
detention," said Will Coley, the director of the barred group, Jesuit Refugee
Service in New Jersey, which had provided English classes and pastoral services.

But the INS, in a statement from Andrea J. Quarantillo, the district director,
said the refugee service "broke the covenant that had been reached with INS."
The program to offer English classes, pastoral visits and Bible study,
Quarantillo said, "was initiated to provide detainees with a positive outlet for
their energies that would not deal with detention issues."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 11, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNORS PROPOSE MORE WORKER VISAS IDEA AIMS TO EASE LABOR SHORTAGE, ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


Proposing an idea with support of three of her peers, the governor of Arizona
said Friday that one way to curb illegal immigration and ease a labor shortage
in the U.S. service industry is to grant more temporary visas for foreign
workers.

"The reality is that no matter how effective border enforcement is, illegal
immigrants will continue to enter the United States to work," Jane Hull said at
a conference of Southwest border governors.

Hull is driving a plan to allow U.S. employers in the hotel, restaurant,
construction and landscaping industries to legally hire more foreign workers.
She announced her proposal during the two-day Border Governors Conference, an
annual discussion of trade, environmental and health issues affecting states on
both sides of the 2,000-mile border between the United States and Mexico.

"We can send a powerful message by telling the federal government that the
current border policy isn't working," she said. "Something must be done to
acknowledge the fact that U.S. businesses need workers."

California Gov. Gray Davis declined to join in calling on the federal government
to expand a little-used program under which agricultural workers are issued
temporary visas to enter the United States.

Davis, who appeared Thursday at the conference but left that day to finish
negotiating a gambling agreement with California Indians, is "studying the
issue," said Michael Flores, the state's secretary of foreign affairs, who
attended the conference Friday in Davis' behalf.

New Mexico Gov. Gary E. Johnson signed a letter written by Hull to Arizona Rep.
Jim Kolbe supporting a bill that would expand the temporary foreign worker
program. Hull said Texas Gov. George W. Bush, who did not attend the conference,
will also sign the letter.

Kolbe is expected to introduce the legislation with fellow Republican Texas Sen.
Kay Bailey Hutchison within the next two weeks, Hull said.

The labor shortage is particularly severe in Arizona, where the unemployment
rate is less than 3 percent, Hull said. For example, developers of a new Four
Seasons hotel in Scottsdale are struggling to hire 300 workers, she added.

"We're growing at such a fast pace, we don't have the workforce to sustain the
growth," she said.

Flores said Davis is committed to strengthening the ties between Mexico and
California, referring to years of strained relations because of Gov. Pete
Wilson's support of anti-immigration measures.

The temporary visa issue, however, "is a very complex issue," Flores said. "It's
just something that needs a lot more discussion."

Hull said details on how many visas will be issued, for what duration and
protections against fraud remain unsettled. Another issue is the opposition by
U.S. labor union officials, who believe it will drive down wages for U.S.
workers.

Chihuahua Gov. Patricio Martinez Garcia, one of five Mexican governors at the
conference, said Hull's plan "makes more sense than denying the need for workers
and prompting many Mexicans into going to work illegally."

Davis will host next year's conference. The site is tentatively set for
Sacramento, Flores said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 29, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LABOR LEADERS SEEK AMNESTY FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: From Mercury News Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE


Silicon Valley labor, community and religious leaders joined together Friday in
a call for public support of legislation to provide amnesty for undocumented
workers.

The coalition focused on the economic, cultural and social contributions of
immigrants and encouraged workers -- documented or undocumented -- to speak out
for amnesty at a union-sponsored hearing today.

The hearing, one of several nationwide, comes in response to the historic
resolution by the AFL-CIO executive council in February calling for blanket
amnesty for undocumented immigrants and a repeal of employer sanctions. The
organization is urging its own members, the general public and legislators to
value the role that immigrants have played in the United States and the
country's labor movement.

Once opposed to the hiring of undocumented workers, union officials have come to
rely on their growing presence, especially in the service industry.

"We're educating people about what their rights should be -- human rights and
legal rights," Art Pulaski, California Labor Federation executive
secretary-treasurer, told a news conference at San Jose's South Bay Labor
Council.

Today's hearing will be from 2 to 4:30 p.m. at the MACSA Youth Center, 660
Sinclair Drive, San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 13, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HARD LIFE, LITTLE HOPE FOR FARMWORKERS

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 799 words


PROBLEM: Growers were providing ramshackle dormitories for their migrant
laborers.

Solution: Send state inspectors to enforce health and safety codes.

Result: Most growers tore down their farmworker housing, deciding it would cost
too much to satisfy housing codes. Now migrant workers camp out, sleep in cars
or crowd into overpriced trailers and houses.

Problem: Illegal immigrants were competing with legal residents for farm jobs,
keeping wages and working conditions low. Unscrupulous growers could exploit
illegal workers, threatening to deport those who complained about pay or working
conditions.

Solution: The 1986 immigration law let 1 million illegals become legal
residents, giving special preference to farmworkers. The law threatened
employers with heavy fines for knowingly hiring undocumented workers.

Result: Newly legalized residents brought in their relatives, swelling the
number of low-skilled, easy-to-exploit workers competing for work and driving
down wages.

It's estimated there are now 700,000 farmworkers in California, only 400,000
jobs.

Illegal immigrants acquired green cards from a thriving industry of forgers. To
avoid fines for failing to spot phony green cards, many growers stopped hiring
workers directly, relying increasingly on labor contractors.

Unlike farmers, contratistas can disappear when workers complain they've been
overcharged for housing, cheated out of pay, denied health care -- or threatened
with deportation if they demand their rights.

John Hubner's July 9 story, "Hard times for farmworkers," explained how the law
of unintended consequences has come down on seasonal field workers in
California.

As bad as things were in the past for migrants, they're even more vulnerable
now.

Problem: Exploited by unscrupulous middlemen, farm workers are slipping deeper
into poverty. As agriculture thrives, migrant laborers' pay, living conditions
and benefits are eroding.

Proposal: State law could make growers legally responsible for how their labor
contractors treat their workers. If a contratista provided unsanitary, unsafe
housing or unlicensed transportation, the grower would be liable.

Assuming the codes were enforced, growers would have a strong incentive to avoid
sleazy contratistas. They might even cut out middlemen entirely and hire
directly.

Result: The law won't pass. Strong opposition by agriculture groups blocked a
growers' responsibility bill by Assemblywoman Gloria Romero. Fear of being
overwhelmed by federal and state regulations will keep farm groups united to
stop future bills.

Proposal: Tighten rules for labor contractors to get and keep a license. Spend
more money on enforcement.

Result: This is politically viable, especially stricter licensing for
contractors. It will help -- a little bit.

But as long as the supply of farmworkers exceeds the demand for their labor, it
will be very difficult to enforce wage rules or health and safety codes.

Workers aren't likely to complain if they know someone else is eager to take
their place in the fields.

Problem: Constant migration from Mexico creates a docile workforce willing to
labor for low wages, sleep on the ground, ride in crowded vans, do without
toilets.

Proposal: Seal the border. Raid the fields and deport workers with forged
papers.

Result: Chaos. And failure.

Mexico is poor. Despite the backbreaking work and low wages, picking crops in
California is more lucrative than growing them in Mexico.

The border is very long. The rewards for crossing are very high. Those who are
deported will keep coming back, as long as their only economic opportunity lies
in the U.S.

Proposal: Everyone's favorite win-win solution is for Mexico to develop
economically, so workers have a chance to succeed on their home ground and
aren't so desperate to leave.

It hasn't happened yet. But with a new, truly democratic government in Mexico,
there's more hope for change than ever before.

Let's say the new president, Vicente Fox, succeeds in expanding opportunity for
Mexicans, reducing the incentive to cross the border. Let's say the U.S. makes
it harder to cross illegally, and harder to get a farm job with a forged green
card.

Result: Without a steady source of cheap, unskilled labor, farm wages would go
up and working conditions would improve.

And employment would go down. Farmers would turn to mechanization to reduce
their need for expensive, hard-to-find laborers, analysts predict.

A small number of skilled workers would do well on the high-tech farms. The
unskilled would be unwanted.

That's how it's worked in every other sector of our economy. More technology.
Less sweat. More work and money for some. Less for others.

The hard times for unskilled workers just keep getting harder.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Workers in the fields near Firebaugh cut broccoli and toss it onto a
packagingmachine.
[000713 ED 9B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 21, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANAHEIM SEEKS REIMBURSEMENT FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A California school board wants foreign nations and the U.S. government to start
paying the bill for educating thousands of illegal immigrants it says are being
schooled for free in its district.

In a 4-1 vote Thursday night, the board of the Anaheim Union High School
District in the Orange County city also asked the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to come to town and identify the illegal immigrants in the school. So
far, the INS has declined, saying that is not its job.

Angered at what it said was the rising cost of finding extra teachers,
classrooms and equipment to cope with a flood of illegal immigrants, the Anaheim
board approved a resolution calling on foreign nations and the U.S. government
to reimburse it for the cost of their education.

The resolution was believed to be the first such bid by a school district in
California, gateway to the United States for millions of mostly poor Latin
Americans.

"I think we are out there all by ourselves at this point. I am hoping it will
bring about some attention at the federal level and across the state that the
problem is pretty much out of hand and it needs to be dealt with rationally,"
said Anaheim High School Board President Harald Martin.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 9, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH SAYS HE BACKS U.S. REIMBURSEMENT FOR IMMIGRANT COSTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 754 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Texas Gov. George W. Bush, clarifying comments he made last week, said Wednesday
that the federal government should reimburse states for the costs they incur
from illegal immigration.

Though the Republican presidential front-runner said last Thursday that he
opposes such reimbursements, Bush's campaign said he misunderstood a reporter's
question and that his answer did not signal a change in his position nor a
contradiction of the policies of the state he governs.

Texas has sought -- with mixed success -- billions of dollars from the federal
government to cover what it has spent on health care, education and
incarceration of illegal immigrants.

Bush supports reimbursements wholeheartedly, campaign press liaison Mindy Tucker
said Wednesday, and would continue to do so as president. But his first priority
regarding immigration, she said, would be to tighten America's borders, a power
he lacks as a governor.

Meanwhile, facing renewed questions about his Vietnam War-era military service,
Bush said Wednesday that neither he nor his father asked a family friend to help
him get into the Texas Air National Guard.

Later, in Warwick, R.I., the Republican presidential hopeful scrapped a
scheduled visit to an elementary school to attend a $1,000-a-plate fundraiser.

"I'm sorry, I really am," Bush said. "I love to go to schools."

FCC BACKS FLEXIBLE AD TIME
WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators acted Wednesday to give political candidates
greater flexibility in the blocks of air time they can purchase from
broadcasters.

The Federal Communications Commission ruled that broadcasters must sell
presidential and congressional candidates air time in increments other than the
30-second or one-minute spots typically sold to commercial advertisers.

Consumer groups had petitioned the FCC to change a rule that let broadcasters
refuse air time to political candidates if it wasn't the same length purchased
by other advertisers.

The groups argued that political candidates might want a non-standard format --
like a five-minute slot -- to go into further detail on an issue or even present
a biography over the air to voters.

In a 4-1 ruling, the FCC agreed that candidates should have this kind of
flexibility and that it would not be unduly burdensome for broadcasters to
accommodate different formats.

GORE, RIVALS COURT VETERANS
ANAHEIM -- Sandwiched between the sharp attacks of two Republican presidential
candidates, Vice President Al Gore on Wednesday told thousands of fellow
veterans that his commitment to the military is a "personal and moral standard
to bear."

At the American Legion's 81st annual convention, Gore promised he would fight
for military pay raises, full accounting of missing POWs and honorguards for the
funeral of every veteran.

"You have this ironclad commitment from me: As long as I am in a position to do
something about it, America will be the strongest force for peace and freedom in
the entire world," he said to warm applause.

The vice president touted his political record, reminding the veterans that he
voted for the Persian Gulf War in 1991, co-founded the Vietnam War-era Veterans
Caucus and pressed last month for an extra $1 billion for veterans' health care.
"You did not delay in answering your country's call; your country, in turn,
should never make you wait," he told more than 3,000 members of the nation's
largest wartime veterans group.

But Gore was not without competition. Tuesday, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said
both President Clinton and the GOP-led Congress should be held responsible for
declining military budgets, "an all-consuming addiction to pork-barrel spending"
on unneeded bases and an inconsistent foreign policy.

"Experience counts," he said, "and in an administration with so few in its upper
echelons who wore the nation's uniform, the inattention to our military and our
veterans, while inexcusable and dangerous, is sadly not surprising."

As Gore walked off the stage, Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, then lambasted the
administration for "eight years of neglect" of military needs. Putting the blame
squarely on Clinton and Gore, he said the record number of military families on
food stamps is "deplorable," Pentagon health care is an "embarrassment" and
desecration of the American flag "unspeakable."

"Bad leadership affects morale," said Hatch, who did not serve in the military
but moved the crowd of aging soldiers with the story of his older brother Jess
returning from World War II in a body bag.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: POLITICS 2000

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 14, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DISTRICT COURT FIGHT OVER PROP. 187 ENDS

BYLINE: TOM HARRIGAN, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 537 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A five-year U.S. District Court battle over Proposition 187 was declared ended
Monday, but some people not involved in the case still hope to have higher
courts rule on the voter-approved measure that sought to deny many services to
illegal immigrants.

"The people certainly deserve to have their initiative defended," said attorney
Sharon Browne of the Pacific Legal Foundation, representing the original
sponsors of Proposition 187.

U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer issued the original injunction in 1994
against enforcement of Proposition 187. Monday, she approved a July agreement
between the state of California and civil rights groups to drop a leftover
challenge to her 1994 and 1997 rulings that Proposition 187 violated the U.S.
Constitution.

Several provisions

Proposition 187 would have denied public education, social services and
non-emergency health care to illegal immigrants. It also would have required
teachers, doctors and other service providers to report suspected illegal
immigrants to federal authorities.

In July the administration of Democratic Gov. Gray Davis agreed with the
American Civil Liberties Union and the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund that remaining provisions of the initiative, to increase
criminal penalties for fraudulent immigration documents, would not be
implemented.

"Today's announcement by Judge Pfaelzer is the final shovel of dirt on the grave
of Proposition 187," said Mark Rosenbaum, legal director of the ACLU of Southern
California. "Under the court-approved settlement, children may now go to school,
and see doctors when ill, without regard to immigrant status."

A spokesman for the state Attorney General's Office, Nathan Barankin, said:
"Hopefully it brings to a close what has been a very ugly chapter in California
politics for most of this decade."

Pfaelzer's 1997 ruling said the initiative was in conflict with the federal
government's exclusive authority to regulate immigration. And she found another
section unconstitutional, based on a 1982 Supreme Court ruling that required
Texas to keep public schools available to all residents regardless of
immigration status.

Davis' Republican predecessor, Pete Wilson, had been involved in challenging the
judge's ruling. But when Davis became governor this year, he requested that a
mediator supervise settlement negotiations with opponents of Proposition 187,
resulting in the agreement announced in July.

Sponsors of the initiative tried in the case to become parties, but Pfaelzer
turned them down. One reason the court gave was that the state wouldadequately
represent the sponsors' interests in defending Proposition 187.

'Will of the people'

Representing the original sponsors of Proposition 187, attorney Browne of the
Pacific Legal Foundation said that by their being shut out of the court case and
this year's mediation process, "the will of the people has been frustrated."

"This has a serious impact on all the initiative measures which are passed by
the people," she said when the foundation Aug. 4 asked the 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals to allow enforcement of the voter-approved ban on education and
public services for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 3, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOME RESIDENTS LAMENT REQUEST FOR BORDER PATROL CRACKDOWN AGENTS ARE 'RUNNING
WILD,' ONE CRITIC SAYS

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: TIERRA DEL SOL, Calif.


When Cole Dotson left home in 1992 to join the Army, he left behind a sleepy
backwater of ranches and rural hideaways where his family and neighbors lived
peacefully at the U.S.-Mexico border.

Three years later, he returned to a war zone.

Border Patrol agents sped down dirt roads at night with searchlights blazing.
They trampled over fences to capture illegal immigrants hiding in the brush.
Lifelong residents were stopped daily at checkpoints on outgoing roads,
questioned about where they were going and why.

"It was night and day," says Dotson, 25. "There were so many Border Patrol
agents and sheriff's deputies and illegals. It was like a totally different
world."

These were agents requested by residents to stem the tide of hundreds of illegal
immigrants crossing their property, but who have since become the enemy. Their
arrival has led to lawsuits, criminal charges and lots of letters to newspapers
and politicians.

"They're a bunch of unsupervised people running wild," said Robert Harris, 80,
who claims he was ordered out of his pickup and frisked by agents when driving a
dirt road near the ranch where he's lived his entire life.

Cole's mother, Donna Tisdale, said border agents were needed after Operation
Gatekeeper, a federal illegal immigration crackdown at the San Diego-Tijuana
border, was initiated in 1994, pushing migration to the eastern mountains and
desert.

But now that the border is under control, Tisdale says young agents eager to
prove themselves are harassing many of the 6,500 residents living in this
unincorporated region known as the Mountain Empire.

The Ross family of Pine Valley sued the Border Patrol, claiming an agent caused
a 1996 car accident that put their 15-year-old son in a coma for two weeks. They
received a nearly $200,000 settlement, but Kathleen Ross, a teacher and the
boy's mother, remains convinced that speeding agents and checkpoints have made
their town more dangerous, not less.

Some see the conflict, which is occurring in towns all along the Southwest
border, as the result of an influx of law enforcement officers into communities
where many residents came to escape the pressures of society.

Border Patrol officials say the agency tries to work harmoniously with the
residents, but they also note that the Mountain Empire is prime territory for
drug and immigrant smuggling.

In the past four years, 46 residents have been arrested for trafficking drugs;
at least eight people this year for migrant smuggling, said Chuck Dierkop, who
is in charge of the Border Patrol station at nearby Campo.

The number of agents at Campo has grown since 1995 from 49 to 322, guarding
about 25 miles of border and arresting 331,362 illegal immigrants, Dierkop said.

Dotson, who grew up on a ranch within site of the border, remembers when arrests
were just a fraction of current totals -- a time when Mexican laborers would
cross onto their property to work for the day and return home when finished.

He said people on both sides of the border lived in relative peace with one
another. The only physical division was a decrepit chain link fence. Now, it's a
steel wall made of surplus Navy landing mats.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Above, a Border Patrol truck cruises the border fence near Tierra Del Sol, where
people on the U.S. side of the border say enforcement tactics have gotten out of
hand.
[991203 CA 3B]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
It's a "different world," says Cole Dotson, below, who has seen dramatic changes
in the area since returning there from the Army in 1995.
[991203 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 6, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL FUNDING FALLS SHORT STATE, LOCAL JAILS: CONGRESS FAILS TO BOOST FUNDING
TO COVER UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS WHO COMMIT CRIMES.

BYLINE: BART JANSEN, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 946 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


State and local taxpayers next year will again bear most of the cost of jailing
illegal immigrants who commit crimes -- but the fight for more federal help is
far from over, California lawmakers say.

Congress refused to boost funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance
Program in the recently signed federal budget -- and nearly cut it
substantially. The program covers less than 40 percent of states' andcounties'
illegal immigrant incarceration costs nationwide.

In California, where illegal immigrants occupy more than one of every eight
prison beds, the program provided $183 million in the last federal budget year.
State taxpayers picked up the rest of the $600 million tab.

Counties, which divided the other $61 million the Justice Department sent the
state, also complain about inadequate reimbursement.

"The one message we've tried to get across is that the federal government is the
biggest deadbeat dad in the country," said Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-San Diego.
"We'd just like the federal government to pay their bills that they've dumped on
the local community."

While the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service incarcerates immigrants
caught without documentation, states and counties must jail those suspected of
committing crimes.

California is the largest recipient of the federal money, collecting $244
million of the program's $585 million in the federal fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30. It expects to get a similar amount in the current fiscal year.

Never covered costs

The reimbursement program was first funded in 1996, but never fully covered
local costs because of competing federal budget priorities. A border-counties
coalition proposed edging it up to $650 million in the new budget.

All 52 members of California's House delegation endorsed the proposal, but a
Senate panel voted instead to scale back the program to $100 million and
lawmakers ultimately settled on holding it steady at $585 million.

Congress stopped short of gutting the program, but "as it stands now, California
is woefully underfunded," said Michael Bustamante, a spokesman for Gov. Gray
Davis.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department, which oversees the reimbursement
program, did not immediately respond to messages left at her office last week by
the Associated Press.

California lawmakers say they expect one part of the federal budget will help in
their fight for more funding. Congress approved a federal study of the economic
impact illegal immigration has on border counties.

Advocates also plan to use the political clout of border states such as
California and Texas in the presidential election year to try to win greater
funding.

"There seems to be a great deal of interest in the border," said Tom Veysey, an
Imperial County supervisor. "They seem to be taking a much higher priority than
they have in the past."

Veysey leads the executive committee of the U.S.-Mexico Border Counties
Coalition, which formed 18 months ago to highlight the costs of illegal
immigration on some of the poorest communities in the country.

The group is working with Sens. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Jon Kyl,
R-Ariz., to bolster funding and expand the program to cover $200 million a year
in medical expenses and court costs related to illegal immigration.

The issue already flared among Republican presidential candidates.

Texas Gov. George W. Bush, multimillionaire publisher Steve Forbes and Arizona
Sen. John McCain support reimbursing states for incarcerating illegal immigrants
and funding medical treatment.

"There is momentum in our favor," said Sharon Bronson, a supervisor in Pima
County, Ariz., who also helped form the border coalition.

Limited pot of money

States and counties apply separately for the money distributed through the
Department of Justice. As more governments become aware of the program, each
participant's share declines.

"We estimated the funding for the program would stay level, but that the share
the state government itself got would fade in future years," said Dan Carson,
who studies prison issues for the California Legislative Analyst's Office.

Border states and counties have complained for years that they are being
overwhelmed by the costs of jailing, educating and providing medical care for
illegal immigrants.

California, Arizona, Texas, Florida, New York and New Jersey all sued the
federal government to force it to reimburse some or all of those costs, but
federal courts rejected those lawsuits.

About 22,000 of California's 162,000 inmates this year are illegal immigrants
who committed crimes, compared to 18,000 in 1997.

The costs hit border states particularly hard, Feinstein said.

In California, for example, San Diego County spent $10 million last year to lock
up lawbreaking illegal immigrants, Imperial County spent more than $4 million
and San Bernardino County spent $2.6 million.

Feinstein wants the federal government to help cover medical costs. Immigrants
sometimes suffer hypothermia or break bones in treacherous border crossings, and
hospitals must write off treatment costs as uncollectible or get reimbursed by
taxpayers, she said.

San Diego County spent $50 million on emergency medical care for illegal
immigrants, Feinstein said.

In New Mexico during the first eight months of this year, Mimbres Memorial
Hospital in Deming was unable to collect $380,000 in charges for Mexican
citizens accounting for more than 1 in 5 patients.

"In a town of roughly 10,000 people, this is a sizable amount for a local
hospital to write off as uncollectible," said Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 11, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FOUND DEAD IN CONTAINER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 81 words


Three illegal immigrants were found dead Monday in Seattle inside a soft-topped
container shipped from Hong Kong.

Fifteen people who survived the journey inside the same container were taken
into the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and were treated
for malnutrition and dehydration. All 18 are believed to be from China.

The INS had been alerted "that there were people aboard this boat," spokeswoman
Irene Mortensen said, but she would not elaborate.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 2, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LANDLORD, SON INDICTED BERKELEY MEN ACCUSED OF IMMIGRATION VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: MAUREEN FAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 429 words


A wealthy Berkeley landlord and his businessman son who allegedly imported
undocumented workers into the United States on fraudulent visas and for illegal
sexual activity were indicted Tuesday on several counts of immigration
violations, authorities said.

Lakireddy Bali Reddy, 62, and Vijay Kumar Lakireddy, 30, both were accused of
conspiring to bring a woman and two teenage girls into the country illegally
between March 1998 and January 2000, according to an indictment by an Oakland
grand jury.

Reddy was accused of transporting the two minors "for immoral purposes" and with
the intent that they "engage in sexual activity for which a person can be
charged with a criminal offense," the 11-page indictment said. His son was
charged with visa fraud.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Jacobs declined to elaborate on the charges.
Attorneys for both father and son did not return phone calls seeking comment.

Reddy -- whose assets have been valued at more than $50 million -- faces up to
70 years in prison and $2 million in fines if convicted on eight separate
counts. He is free on $10 million bond.

His son faces a maximum of 20 years in prison and $750,000 in fines if convicted
on three separate counts. He is free on $500,000 bond.

Both men are expected to be arraigned on the indictment before a federal
magistrate Monday, authorities said.

According to prosecutors, the pair petitioned immigration officials forH-1B and
other visas on behalf of workers they said would be employed at Active Tech
Solutions in Berkeley. The H-1B visa is reserved for foreign workers with
special skills who can perform jobs that are otherwise hard to fill.

Instead, the workers were employed at Reddy's apartment buildings, office
buildings and restaurants, according to authorities. Reddy owns the Pasand
restaurants in Berkeley and Santa Clara, the indictment said.

One of the undocumented workers arrived in the United States in April. The two
teenagers arrived at San Francisco International Airport in August and were met
by Reddy, who drove them to an apartment in Berkeley, authorities said.

While father and son could not be reached Tuesday, they have denied the charges
in the past. Reddy described the allegations as "nonsense" during a jailhouse
interview last month as friends and relatives rallied to his defense.

"God and truth are on my side," Reddy's son said after prosecutors charged him
last week.

Investigations are ongoing both in the United States and in Reddy's home state
of Andhra Pradesh in south India. .

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reddy
[000202 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 11, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION NEEDS REASONABLE LIMITS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 202 words


MAX Castro's "Xenophobia fades with the 1990s" (Perspective, March 5) is off
base.

The dictionary defines "xenophobia" as "unreasonable fear or hatred of
foreigners or strangers," which does not equate to support for limits on legal
immigration and opposition to illegal immigration; campaigners for open borders
misuse the word regularly to stir up emotions. One can welcome and enjoy foreign
visitors without handing them citizenship.

Those who seek rational levels of legal immigration and more effective
deterrents to illegal immigration are alive and well and not caving in to the
immigration industry.

Where is it laid down that foreigners have an unfettered right to reside here
and, if they choose, become citizens? Obviously, there is no such right; it is a
matter regulated by law.

In the nation's earlier years, with abundant space and resources, large-scale
immigration made sense; it doesn't today. But the immigration industry continues
to beat its drum furiously, in effect contending society is obliged to accept
more immigrants. They even try to intimidate the environmentalists, who
recognize there is a limit to our ability to absorb newcomers.

Robert L. Burns
Santa Cruz

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 16, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS EASES SWEEPS FOR CENSUS NEW RULES: AN ACCURATE HEAD COUNT, NOT DEPORTATIONS,
IS TOP PRIORITY.

BYLINE: JULIA PRODIS SULEK, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 622 words


New guidelines from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service promising to
curtail neighborhood sweeps during the census is a good effort to encourage
illegal immigrants to be counted, but many will still hide, immigrant advocates
said Wednesday.

"I think the mistrust is so deep, I'd be surprised if it really had an impact,"
said Esther Medina, executive director of the Mexican American Community
Services Agency in San Jose. "People basically have a problem answering a lot of
pretty personal questions (and believing) that they won't be used against them
in some way."

Getting an accurate census count is critical in distributing government money
for schools, social services, road maintenance and other programs. Immigrants,
minorities and the poor are among the most undercounted populations. In Santa
Clara County, one in three residents is foreign-born.

Already, a federal law prevents the INS from using census information. The
guidelines issued Monday are a further attempt to ease fears among the immigrant
community that the INS might use the data to deport people.

The INS will "minimize its visibility" during peak counting periods from April
through August, primarily in residential areas, including migrant workers' camps
and shelters for the homeless, runaways, and abused women and children,
according to the guidelines.

"INS enforcement operations that may result in large numbers of arrests, other
than standard patrols of the border and public transportation facilities, should
not be planned in residential areas during the Census 2000 enumeration," the
guidelines state.

Raids not precluded

However, the guidelines don't preclude the INS from raids on businesses or
entering residential areas during ongoing investigations, including, for
instance, following a truckload of illegal immigrants to a drop house or
deporting an illegal immigrant who has broken the law.

"We want to minimize any . . fear of us maybe taking action on census data,"
said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman from the INS' San Francisco district office.
"We cannot do that. We will not do that."

Some say the guidelines don't go far enough.

"It would have been more helpful if the INS had come straight out and said they
would suspend all raids during this time period," said Jackie Maruhashi, a staff
attorney for the Asian Law Alliance. However, she added, "I think it's a step in
the right direction."

Maruhashi said she knows of no repercussions to illegal immigrants counted in
the 1990 census.

"That's the message that needs to go out," she said. "The census is in fact safe
and important for the community."

Still, for many immigrants who come from countries where governmentcorruption
breeds mistrust, the guidelines offer little reassurance.

"If they come from a history of distrust, it's difficult to take with face value
whatever the government is saying," said Roger Chow, of Asian Americans for
Community Involvement, a San Jose advocacy group.

Some immigrants have a similar impression of the U.S. government, community
leaders say.

Good will lacking

Immigrants "go to INS to try to get their papers fixed. The information is lost
three times. Their dates are changed another 12 times," said Medina of the
Mexican American Community Services Agency. "The good will isn't there. I think
they would probably still feel they can't trust them."

Census workers should not only worry about finding undocumented immigrants, she
says. Legal immigrants might also be reluctant to be counted.

"Deportation is not their only fear," Medina said, explaining that some might
worry about being evicted or that social service workers would be called if they
are living in overcrowded conditions.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 15, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ADVOCATES DRAFTING PLAN FOR IMMIGRATION SOLUTIONS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


Immigration advocates began drafting a proposal, to be presented to Congress in
upcoming months, to help the longstanding problem of illegal immigration.

About two dozen people met Saturday at the Rancho Santiago Community College
District offices to work on long-term measures that would ease the illegal
migration of Mexicans into the United States.

"The problem is old, but the moment has come now, especially in this electoral
period in the United States and Mexico, to seek permanent solutions," said
Romero Flores Caballero of the National Institute ofPopulation and Statistics in
Mexico City.

The plan includes granting residency to millions of undocumented Mexicans,
allowing Mexican migrant laborers easier access into the United States and
pushing for better working conditions for immigrants.

The International Coalition of Mexicans Abroad was created several months ago by
prominent Mexicans in the United States and Mexico to advocate for those who
migrate to the country from Mexico.

Coalition members will use the suggestions to draft a proposal to be presented
to the House Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over immigration laws,
in July.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    June 2, 2000 Friday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

CAMPAIGN SEEKS IMMIGRANT AMNESTY

BYLINE: From Mercury News Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: SALINAS


Labor leaders, farmworkers and packinghouse employees are scheduled to kick off
a campaign Saturday to win amnesty for undocumented immigrants. Speakers will
include AFL-CIO Executive Secretary Art Pulaski,United Farm Workers President
Arturo Rodriguez and Service Employees International Union Vice President Eliseo
Medina.

Immigration authorities estimate that 5.5 million illegal immigrants live in the
United States. The illegal-immigrant population is about what it was before 1986
when an amnesty program provided citizenship to nearly 3 million people.

The rally Saturday, one of many the AFL-CIO is sponsoring across the country,
starts at 3:30 p.m. at Alisal High School, 777 Williams Road.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 6, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOUNTY DECRIED ON BOTH SIDES OF BORDER ANGRY MEXICAN ACTIVIST TAKES AIM AT U.S.
AGENTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: REYNOSA, Mexico


A Mexican activist on Monday offered $10,000 to anybody who kills a U.S. Border
Patrol agent, a move that was immediately condemned by the Mexican government
and called a publicity stunt by local officials.

U.S. officials also opened an investigation into the bounty offered by Carlos
Ibarra Perez, spokesman for an advocacy group called the Citizen Defense
Committee.

Ibarra, 60, says too many illegal immigrants are being slain by U.S. agentsand
private landowners while making their way into the United States.

"They (the Border Patrol) are massacring people," Ibarra said at a news
conference in this city just across the border from Texas. "And now we're ready
to defend ourselves."

Mounting tension between undocumented immigrants, U.S. authorities and border
residents has been more evident in recent months.

Two weeks ago, a Border Patrol agent in nearby Brownsville shot and killed an
illegal immigrant during a struggle on the banks of the Rio Grande.

In Arizona, ranchers are patrolling their spreads with rifles and others are
detaining those suspected to be illegal immigrants for authorities.

On Monday, the Mexican government harshly criticized Ibarra's statements.

"The embassy of Mexico strongly condemns such irresponsible actions and finds
such a statement to be an intolerable provocation," said Jose Antonio
Zabalgoitia, spokesman for the Mexican embassy.

Local media and officials in Reynosa said Ibarra, a retired oil worker,
apparently doesn't have the money to pay the offered reward.

FBI agents were expected to review a videotape of Ibarra's news conference.
Threatening a U.S. agent is a crime.

Activists for immigrants decried Ibarra's actions.

"We already live in a climate of tension that we believe leads to abuse," said
Nathan Selzer, spokesman for Project Libertad, a Harlingen-based immigrant
rights group. "Now you're putting in the back of agents' minds that everybody is
trying to kill them. It's just going to create more violence."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 23, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRUCKER CHARGED IN DEATHS OF IMMIGRANTS FOUR OTHER SUSPECTS HELD IN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: MAUREEN JOHNSON, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: LONDON


The Dutch driver of the truck in which 58 Chinese illegal immigrants died in an
airtight compartment was charged Thursday with manslaughter.

Perry Wacker, 32, from the Dutch city of Rotterdam, was also charged with
smuggling two survivors of the disaster into Britain, and attempting to smuggle
in the dead victims, Kent county police said.

Wacker was the first of five people being interrogated by British and Dutch
police to be charged.

He has been held since the 58 victims, along with the two survivors, were
discovered late Sunday at the English Channel port of Dover. The illegal
immigrants, all in their 20s, had been stowed with a cargo of tomatoes in an
airtight container during a five-hour crossing from the Belgian port of
Zeebrugge.

Kent County police are also holding two London-based Chinese suspected
ofinvolvement in a smuggling gang. In the Netherlands, police have arrested the
24-year-old owner of the trucking company and a 55-year-old man.

Earlier, China charged that Western countries encouraged racketeers by granting
political asylum.

In Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhu Bangzao also urged increased
international cooperation, expressed sympathy over the deaths, and said China
was cracking down on the "snakeheads," the criminal gangs responsible for the
human trafficking.

"It must be pointed out that the criminal groups often use the loopholes in the
legislation of other countries . . . and instigate illegal immigrants to apply
for political asylum, often with success," Zhu added.

The British government's official policy is to grant asylum only to people who
can prove they are at genuine risk of persecution in their own country. However,
the number of applicants is soaring -- 71,000 last year compared with 46,000 in
1998.

None of the dead found Sunday has yet been identified, Kent County police said
Wednesday.

Police were checking the fingerprints of a group of Chinese migrants who were
detained in April in the Belgian villages of Bornem and Puurs.

After fingerprinting the group, Belgian authorities had ordered them to leave
and placed them unescorted on a train to Antwerp. The migrants disappeared, and
some may have ended up among the victims at Dover.

Belgian authorities were still holding three Asian men arrested after the April
discovery, London's Times newspaper reported Thursday.

Wah-Piow Tan, a London lawyer who represents Chinese asylum-seekers, said he had
been approached by dozens of illegal immigrants from China's Fujian province who
could be key to identifying the victims. But he said they were afraid to come
forward for fear of deportation.

"My clients are in a gray area," the Guardian quoted him as saying. "Some of
them are awaiting the result of asylum applications and others have been refused
asylum but have not yet departed."

Prime Minister Tony Blair told Parliament on Wednesday the tragedy "emphasizes
yet again the need to take action at an international and, in particular, at a
European level."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 8, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL BEEFS UP AIR PATROLS IN ARIZONA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 81 words


The Border Patrol on Friday began increasing air patrols to help find illegal
immigrants in distress in Arizona's deserts, where dozens have already died this
year trying to enter the United States.

The patrol sent seven airplanes from other areas of the country to Arizona to be
used in sweeps along the U.S.-Mexico border during the next three months, one of
the most dangerous periods for immigrants to be crossing the desert because
temperatures regularly hit triple digits.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JOHN MILLER -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Border Patrol planes have been reassigned to patrol Arizona's deserts for
illegal immigrants overcome by summer heat.
[000708 FR 12A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 26, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WATER STATIONS SET UP TO KEEP MIGRANTS ALIVE DESERT HAS SEEN 14 DEATHS FROM HEAT
THIS YEAR

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: OCOTILLO


A blue flag fluttering atop a 30-foot-high steel pole is the only man-made
object for miles -- and the brightest spot of color in an unforgiving desert of
pale green scrub and cactus.

The flag, and 100 others like it, are signs of the latest effort to reduce the
number of illegal immigrants who die entering the United States across one of
the nation's harshest environments.

Volunteers, with federal government permission, store two one-gallon jugs of
drinking water at the base of each flag. It's not much, but it could be enough
to save lives in an area where the temperature regularly exceeds 110 degrees in
summer and 14 migrants have died from the heat this year.

Despite the dangers, thousands of illegal immigrants from Mexico cross the
border in the desert to avoid intense patrols to the east around the town of
Calexico and to the west in San Diego.

"People are dying right in our back yard," said John Hunter of San Diego, who
organized the effort with help from his conservative congressman brother. "I had
to do something."

Hunter, who owns a satellite technology research firm, is the brother of Rep.
Duncan Hunter, a Republican from El Cajon who has long opposed illegal
immigration in his 18 years in Congress.

He advocates increasing the number of Border Patrol agents and fortifying the
boundary between California and Mexico. His Web site includes a photograph of
the border fence, allowing viewers to follow its expansion.

But Rep. Hunter supports the water stations and met with representatives of the
Border Patrol and Bureau of Land Management, which has jurisdiction over the
desert region, so his brother could secure permission for the project.

"I believe in a strong border, but when you see people dying in the sand you
don't step over their bodies. You do something to save them," the congressman
said.

How much the water stations will help immigrants remains in question.

After putting out a few as a test in January, Hunter and volunteers began
setting up the rest about six weeks ago. They are now in three locations
accessible only by four-wheel-drive vehicles.

Twenty are spaced one-quarter mile apart in a place called Pinto Wash, about one
mile north of the U.S.-Mexico border and 110 miles east of San Diego.

The others are arrayed in two lines about 15 miles to the north. John Hunter,
who has paid for the effort with his own money and donations totaling about
$5,000, has agreed to monitor the stations. Water has been taken from 10 of them
so far.

The Border Patrol has said it doesn't plan to interfere with the water stations
or stake them out to see who uses them, but immigrants who use them aren't
guaranteed safety either: The poles are located in areas already monitored with
night vision scopes and motion sensors in the ground.

For now, few, if any, migrants are aware of the water stations, said Monica
Oropeza, the director of a shelter for immigrant women and children in Mexicali,
Mexico.

"We really need a change in immigration policy more than a glass of water,"
Oropeza said. "But this is a step in the right direction."

In fiscal year 1999, the 23,000-square-mile El Centro Border Patrol sector
recorded more than 60 migrant deaths, making it the nation's deadliest crossing
point. Laredo, Texas, was next with 40.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: DENNIS POROY - ASSOCIATED PRESS
John Hunter, left, has permission from the Border Patrol and Bureau of Land
Management for his desert efforts. John Lawler, foreground, and Steven Kane join
him on this trek.
[000726 CA 3B]
PHOTO: DENNIS POROY - ASSOCIATED PRESS
John Lawler, left, Steven Kane, John Hunter and Tom Wacker mark where two
one-gallon jugs of water are left to help reduce the number of deaths of illegal
immigrants. One hundred other flags and watercontainers are being placed in the
area where temperatures regularly exceed 100 degrees in summer.
[000726 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 29, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW FOCUS OF BORDER ACTION ARIZONA RANCHERS ANGERED BY CRUSH OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS MAKING DANGEROUS CROSSING

BYLINE: CHERYL DEVALL, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1158 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz.


Until a couple of years ago, clandestine border crossings in this former copper
mining town were hardly worth noticing.

"People were trickling through here all the time, maybe five, 10, 20 a week,"
said Douglas Mayor Ray Borane, who has relatives a few blocks away in Agua
Prieta, Mexico.

But the flow of migration nearly overwhelmed this town after the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service cracked down at other heavily used points
of entry including El Paso, Texas, and San Ysidro. Two years ago, migrants
started streaming toward Douglas in the Arizona desert.

It hasn't been the same here since.

Tens of thousands of people began coming through the desert each month. The
Border Patrol intercepted 49,000 in January. The Mexican government counts 58
deaths along the Arizona frontier this year -- victims of exposure, dehydration
and unscrupulous smugglers. People continue to attempt the crossing daily from
dusk until dawn.

The human traffic generated an intense political response -- among ranchers
intent on guarding their property and American sovereignty as well as those who
condemned their actions as vigilantism. Both sides expect to confront each other
today at rallies in San Ysidro, 450 miles to the west.

It's not as if the federal government has ignored the issue in Douglas.

In the last five years the area's complement of Border Patrol agents has
mushroomed from around 50 to 500. The federal government has become the town's
biggest employer, building six miles of steel fences along the border and
planning 10 more. It has trained 20 cameras on the city limits and posted
watchtowers with infrared sensors to detect illegal crossings day and night. The
Border Patrol's adobe-style headquarters here, built 13 years ago, has sprouted
a ring of temporary buildings. Groundbreaking is scheduled two months from now
for a new, larger command center.

The larger law enforcement presence has helped reduce illegal crossings from
Mexico into these parts to 18,000 this scorching month. But even the smaller
numbers mean war to rancher Roger Barnett.

Call for National Guard

Barnett has garnered attention -- notoriety in some quarters, praise in others
-- for armed patrols in which he and his brothers have rounded up illegal border
crossers on his ranch and handed them over to U.S. Border Patrol agents. In his
mind, the government that employs those agents hasn't done its job, and "it's a
damn shame."

Blaming illegal immigrants for thousands of dollars of damage to his fences and
other property, Barnett said this week that the Border Patrol should step aside
and let the National Guard take over. "We need a militarized border, because
it's constitutional," he said. "Article 4, Section 4 says the government will
protect us from invasion. If this isn't an invasion, I don't know what is."

Ranchers including Barnett have been accused of going beyond their property to
track down immigrants, and seven American teenagers have been arrested on
charges of terrorizing Mexicans trying to cross the border near San Diego.

"The border has been under siege from San Ysidro to Texas," said California
rally coordinator Armando Navarro, an ethnic studies professor at University of
California-Riverside. "It's an attack on the Mexican people." The event is being
billed as a show of solidarity with those who continue to come to the United
States without documents.

Offering alternatives

In Douglas, where the rhetoric boils down to daily reality, there are many
definitions of solidarity.

Mayor Borane believes the most humane approach to illegal migration would be the
establishment of a permanent guest worker program -- a form of legal residency
for undocumented immigrants. "The main problem is the government's failure to
address immigration as a labor problem instead of a law enforcement issue,"
Borane said.

The availability of jobs and the need for cheap labor are pulling people here,
Borane said. "I like to simplistically say they're on their way to work."

The Mexican consul in Douglas, Miguel Escobar Valdez, endorses the guest worker
idea, and notes that Mexico's President-elect Vicente Fox has pledged to make
stabilizing Mexico's economy a priority, slowing the exodus.

But as long as the American minimum wage is eight times that of Mexico, Valdez
said, the migration flow will continue between these two nations as it does from
poor to wealthy countries throughout the world. Given that, he said, "We would
like to be able to discuss a more humane handling of the migratory issue in
order to prevent more deaths.

"These guys of ours crossing the border, whether they have documents or not,
keep on being human beings. We must respect that," Valdez said.

Even Border Patrol agents concede they can't blame people for wanting to earn in
a day what they can in a week. And those agents don't pretend they'll ever stop
everyone who wants to from coming illegally to the United States.

What they can do, said supervising agent Carlos Carrillo, is make prospective
migrants think twice.

"The people who we're seeing on the border today are people who made the
decision to come to the United States illegally many months ago. When they made
that decision, they based it on year-old information from someone who previously
made it successfully," Carrillo said.

A year ago it was easy -- relatively easy, considering the unforgiving desert
and mountains -- to cross the border here, he said. "And it was relatively
inexpensive. One hundred and fifty dollars, within a few minutes you were across
the border, a quick dash into town and you were in a waiting vehicle on your way
to Phoenix."

By deterring some and apprehending others, the Border Patrol hopes to spread the
word among the next year's migrants. "The message is going to be, 'Don't come to
this area.' If the push-pull factors are so great that you're still motivated to
come to the United States, don't come to Arizona."

But for now they still come, filling the benches in a corrugated iron-lined
holding pen several times a day or huddling in the dirt in the glare of
headlights after dark. Nine people, some clutching gallon jugs of water, were
among the dozens caught one night this week. After brief interviews with the
Border Patrol, they would be bused back to the Mexican side.

One of the group, Leopoldo Marcos Dominguez, said he'd been stopped three times
in his effort to move from Mexico City where he sells fruit and vegetables on
the streets. He and his wife each paid a smuggler $600. Now they were out of
money and their coyote was nowhere in sight.

For a man about to be sent back across the border once more, Dominguez brimmed
with hope and chatted amiably with Border Patrol agent Carrillo. "If someone
keeps trying, is it bad?" he asked in Spanish.

Carrillo paused, then spat his tobacco. In English, he said, "How do I look this
man in the eye and tell him, 'Give up'?"

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Map;
PHOTO: TERRENCE MOORE -- KNIGHT RIDDER
Mexican immigrants are detained in Douglas, Ariz., on July 21.
[000729 FR 1A]
PHOTO: TERRENCE MOORE -- KNIGHT RIDDER
Border Patrol agent Fred Esquivel, left, confronts a group of Mexican men at the
border waiting to cross into Arizona last week.
[000729 FR 1A]
PHOTO: TERRENCE MOORE -- KNIGHT RIDDER
Mexican immigrants caught crossing into the U.S. illegally are detained by
Border Patrol agents near Douglas, Ariz., on July 21.
[000729 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 29, 2000 Saturday SAN FRANCISCO EDITION

NEW BORDER ACTION FOCUSES ON DANGEROUS CROSSINGS DESERT PATH: RANCHERS
SCRUTINIZED FOR TACTICS TO PROTECT LAND, CURB FLOW OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS THROUGH
ARIZONA TOWN.

BYLINE: CHERYL DEVALL, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz.


Until a couple of years ago, clandestine border crossings in this former copper
mining town were hardly worth noticing.

"People were trickling through here all the time, maybe five, 10, 20 a week,"
said Douglas Mayor Ray Borane, who has relatives a few blocks away in Agua
Prieta, Mexico.

But the flow of migration nearly overwhelmed this town after the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service cracked down at other heavily-used points
of entry including El Paso, Texas, and San Ysidro. Two years ago, migrants
started streaming toward Douglas in the Arizona desert.

It hasn't been the same here since.

Tens of thousands of people began coming through the desert each month. The
Border Patrol intercepted 49,000 in January. The Mexican government counts 58
deaths along the Arizona frontier this year -- victims of exposure, dehydration
and unscrupulous smugglers. People continue to attempt the crossing daily from
dusk until dawn.

The human traffic generated an intense political response -- among ranchers
intent on guarding their property and American sovereignty as well as thosewho
condemned their actions as vigilantism. Both sides expect to confront each other
today at rallies in San Ysidro, 450 miles to the west.

It's not as if the federal government has ignored the issue in Douglas.

In the last five years the area's complement of Border Patrol agents has
mushroomed from around 50 to 500. The federal government has become the town's
biggest employer, building six miles of steel fences along the border and
planning 10 more. It has trained 20 cameras on the city limits and posted
watchtowers with infrared sensors to detect illegal crossings day and night. The
Border Patrol's adobe-style headquarters here, built 13 years ago, has sprouted
a ring of temporary buildings. Groundbreaking is scheduled two months from now
for a new, larger command center.

The larger law enforcement presence has helped reduce illegal crossings from
Mexico into these parts to 18,000 this scorching month. But even the smaller
numbers mean war to rancher Roger Barnett.

Barnett has garnered attention -- notoriety in some quarters, praise in others
-- for armed patrols in which he and his brothers have rounded up illegal border
crossers on his ranch and handed them over to U.S. Border Patrol agents. In his
mind, the government that employs those agents hasn't done its job, and "it's a
damn shame."

Blaming illegal immigrants for thousands of dollars of damage to his fences and
other property, Barnett said this week that the Border Patrol should step aside
and let the National Guard take over. "We need a militarized border, because
it's constitutional," he said. "Article 4, Section 4 says the government will
protect us from invasion. If this isn't an invasion, I don't know what is."

Ranchers including Barnett have been accused of going beyond their property to
track down immigrants, and seven American teenagers have been arrested on
charges of terrorizing Mexicans trying to cross the border near San Diego.

"The border has been under siege from San Ysidro to Texas," said California
rally coordinator Armando Navarro, an ethnic studies professor at University of
California-Riverside. "It's an attack on the Mexican people." The event is being
billed as a show of solidarity with those who continue to come to the United
States without documents.

In Douglas, where the rhetoric boils down to daily reality, there are many
definitions of solidarity.

Mayor Borane believes the most humane approach to illegal migration would be the
establishment of a permanent guest worker program -- a form of legal residency
for undocumented immigrants. "The main problem is the government's failure to
address immigration as a labor problem instead of a law enforcement issue,"
Borane said.

The availability of jobs and the need for cheap labor are pulling people here,
Borane said. "I like to simplistically say they're on their way to work."

The Mexican consul in Douglas, Miguel Escobar Valdez, endorses the guest worker
idea, and notes that Mexico's President-elect Vicente Fox has pledged to make
stabilizing Mexico's economy a priority, slowing the exodus.

But as long as the American minimum wage is eight times that of Mexico, Valdez
said, the migration flow will continue between these two nations as it does from
poor to wealthy countries throughout the world. Given that, he said, "We would
like to be able to discuss a more humane handling of the migratory issue in
order to prevent more deaths."

Even Border Patrol agents concede they can't blame people for wanting to earn in
a day what they can in a week. And those agents don't pretend they'll ever stop
everyone who wants to from coming illegally to the United States.

What they can do, said supervising agent Carlos Carrillo, is make prospective
migrants think twice.

"The people who we're seeing on the border today are people who made the
decision to come to the United States illegally many months ago. When they made
that decision, they based it on year-old information from someone who previously
made it successfully," Carrillo said.

Leopoldo Marcos Dominguez, said he'd been stopped three times in his effort to
move from Mexico City where he sells fruit and vegetables on the streets. He and
his wife each paid a smuggler $600. Now they were out of money and their coyote
was nowhere in sight.

For a man about to be sent back across the border once more, Dominguez brimmed
with hope and chatted amiably with Border Patrol agent Carrillo. "Ifsomeone
keeps trying, is it bad?" he asked in Spanish.

Carrillo paused, then spat his tobacco. In English, he said, "How do I look this
man in the eye and tell him, 'Give up'?"

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map;
PHOTO: TERRENCE MOORE -- KNIGHT RIDDER
U.S. Border Patrol agent Fred Esquivel, left, confronts a group of Mexican men
at the U.S.-Mexico Border who are waiting to cross into the United States near
Douglas, Ariz., on July 21. The small broken fence marks the border between the
United States and Mexico.
[000729 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 5, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISAS PUSHED JUST FOR TECH NO LIMIT: LOFGREN PROPOSES CATEGORY FOR U.S.
UNIVERSITY GRADUATES.

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Zoe Lofgren, trying to resolve the continuing shortage of visas for highly
skilled foreign workers, has proposed a new, unlimited visa category
specifically for the high-tech industry.

The new visas would be available for companies that hire foreign nationals
graduating from American universities with degrees in science and engineering
for salaries of at least $60,000 a year, under the San Jose Democrat's proposal.

In contrast to the H-1B visas now used by the high-tech industry and other
fields to hire skilled foreigners, Lofgren's new category of T, or Tech, visas
would have no annual cap on the number that could be granted. The T visas would
allow a worker to stay in the country for up to five years, while the H-1B
allows up to three years, with the possibility of renewal for another three
years.

"It has never made sense to me that, after allowing foreign students to study at
our fine American universities, we force some of the best and brightest minds in
the world to leave America and relocate to other countries to compete against
us," said Lofgren, who introduced her legislation Tuesday night. The bill is
called the BRAIN Act, for Bringing Resources from Academia for the Industry of
our Nation, and would be a five-year pilot program.

Lofgren said 60 percent of the applications on the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's waiting list for H-1B visas are for foreign students at
American universities who have jobs offers here.

Her proposal comes at a time when the high-tech industry is again facing a
shortage of H-1B visas. After pushing Congress last year to nearly double the
annual allotment from 65,000 to 115,000, the INS reached that limit in mid-June
-- more than three months before the end of the fiscal year.

Lofgren's legislation comes on the heels of a bill introduced by Sen. Phil
Gramm, R-Texas, in the Senate last week that would again significantly increase
the number of H-1B visas -- this time to 200,000 annually over the next three
years. Rep. David Dreier, R-Covina, the powerful House Rules Committee chairman,
introduced a bill similar to Gramm's on Wednesday.

Both bills contain a provision similar to Lofgren's plan. They would exempt from
the annual cap visas for foreigners with a master's degree or higher in a
specialty related to their employment who would be paid at least $60,000 a year.
Lofgren said she had originally suggested the idea last year toward the end of
the lengthy H-1B visas debate. Lofgren said it doesn't make sense to limit the T
visa to people with graduate degrees, since the high-tech industry will hire
newly graduated students with just bachelor's degrees if they can do the work.

But the fact that Lofgren, a Democrat, has proposed something similar to what
key Republicans in the Senate and House are seeking could bode well for her
plan. Though she admits Congress has little time left this year to pass
legislation, the bill could help solve another anticipated shortfall of H-1B
visas again next year for tech companies if the cap is not increased. The
high-tech industry has complained that there are not enough H-1B visas to fill
crucial positions, potentially hindering economic growth.

Jenifer Eisen, manager of government affairs for Intel Corp., said Lofgren's
proposal could help solve the problem.

"It sounds very promising and this is the kind of creative solution that Intel
has been looking for in the last several Congresses relating to this issue,"
Eisen said. At Intel, for example, almost all the workers hired on H-1B visas
are foreign students graduating from American universities, she said.

Lofgren said the fraud in the H-1B system comes from people in foreign countries
trying to get jobs in the United States, not from students who have gone to
school here and are looking to stay. Under her plan, companies that apply for a
T visa would pay a $1,000 fee that would go into a federal high-tech education
fund to be used to fund programs in math, science and computer sciences for
students from kindergarten to 12th grade.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no credit]
Lofgren
"We force some of the best and brightest minds in the world to leave America and
relocate to other countries to compete against us."
[990805 BU 1C]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 14, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZEN KIDS: HOW THE INS COULD SIMPLIFY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 644 words


IF U.S. citizens living abroad have a baby, that child is automatically a U.S.
citizen. Yet if U.S. citizens adopt a baby from another country, their child may
wait up to two years to become a citizen.

That is just one of many inconsistencies in federal immigration law. Here's
another:

If a baby is born in this country to parents who are not Americans, that child
is automatically a U.S. citizen. Yet the minor child of a naturalizedcitizen is
not automatically a citizen.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is understaffed and overwhelmed.
Horror stories of long lines and years of delays are well known. Here's a tip
that might cut down a bit on the paperwork: Make all minor children -- natural
or adopted -- of all American citizens -- native born or naturalized --
automatic citizens. It will save the agency time and save families pain.

More than 16,000 foreign-born children were adopted by U.S. citizens last year.
Most were born in Russia, China or South Korea. They were adopted by American
couples who either couldn't have children of their own or simply wanted to open
their hearts and homes to orphaned or abandoned children.

The American parents had to go through an extensive and expensive process before
they could pick up their children and bring them here. The children are
recognized as legally theirs under the law, with all the rights of natural
children -- except the right to citizenship.

By law, "adoption provides all the privileges of natural-born children," said
Susan Soon-Keum Cox, which should mean citizenship should be automatic. But Cox,
who was born in Korea and adopted by Americans when she was 4, knows well that
families adopting children from overseas don't always get the same treatment as
other adoptive families. "International adoptees are constantly called upon to
validate that we are part of a real family."

Last year the U.S. Senate passed a bill that would make international adoptees
automatically eligible for citizenship. A similar measure has languished in the
House. Emboldened by the campaign to make little Elian Gonzalez a U.S. citizen,
parents of international adoptees have been pushing Congress to get moving on
their bill, and have succeeded in getting a hearing scheduled for Thursday.

But the Adopted Orphans Citizenship Act doesn't go far enough. While it would
bring relief to U.S. citizens who adopt abroad, it fails to address the problem
of naturalized citizens who already have children. Under current law, there are
several cases in which children under 18 do not automatically become eligible
for citizenship when their parents do. For example, if only one parent becomes a
citizen or the children are living abroad, it can take years for them to become
citizens.

That makes no sense.

Rep. William Delahunt, A Massachusetts Democrat, is expected to introduce a bill
this week that would address these problems as well as those of adoptees.
Delahunt also wants to correct a serious injustice in a 1996 immigration law
that allows adoptees who have lived here since childhood to be deported if they
don't become citizens before they turn 18 and then get into trouble with the
law. In one case, a 25-year-old man was deported to Thailand, even though his
parents were U.S. citizens and he had lived here since he was 4.

Delahunt wants to make adults automatic citizens if they were adopted as minors
by U.S. citizens, or if they were under 18 when their parents were naturalized.

The way to fix the INS is with substantial reform and more resources, but that
is not likely to happen soon. In the meantime, Congress should take what
opportunities it has to improve the situation. Speeding up the process for
children of U.S. citizens will put only the smallest dent in the INS backlog,
but even a small dent will make a difference for thousands of families.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News
Citizenship

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 10, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' GROUPS RALLY AGAINST REDUCED BENEFITS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Groups representing low-income immigrants rallied Tuesday on the steps of the
state Capitol demanding increased access to government food, housing and welfare
programs.

About 300 people brought in by bus from around the state chanted, cheered and
carried placards urging support for immigrants' rights. Demonstrators also
fanned out through the Capitol, meeting with individual lawmakers.

"The purpose is to unite the immigrant communities. This is the fifth year we've
done this," said Jenny Ocon of the California Immigrant Welfare Collaborative, a
sponsor of the event.

Demonstrators urged lawmakers to allow legal immigrants to keep food stamp
benefits that are scheduled to expire in August because of changes in welfare
laws.

They also backed improved health care for children and multi-language outreach
programs.

Frank Tamborello, of the Los Angeles Coalition to End Hunger and Homelessness,
said California's booming economy would not be possible without the work of
immigrants, but that many of them will be cut off from food stamp benefits at
the end of the summer.

"California, now as always, has been built by the work of immigrants -- these
hardworking, taxpaying immigrants who built up the good economy," he said. "If
people don't have access to the benefits paid for by taxes, maybe they shouldn't
have to pay taxes."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 7, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BE HUMANE REGARDLESS OF WHOSE RESPONSIBILITY IT IS, CALIFORNIA SHOULD APPROVE
FOOD STAMPS FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 428 words


THE Legislature and the governor are again at odds over food stamps for legal
immigrants. There's only one right way to resolve the dispute -- humanely, by
approving money for food for America's newest arrivals.

At issue is the safety net program for only an estimated 8,500 of the legal
immigrants who arrived in California since August 1996. The state has been
picking up the tab for their food stamps under a stop-gap measure that's set to
expire at the end of September.

The Legislature wants to make the extension permanent and has included nearly $4
million for the coming year. Gov. Gray Davis has cut all food-stamp funding for
post-1996 immigrants in his proposed budget with a few exceptions, such as when
an immigrant's sponsor dies. Davis argues that food-stamp funding is a federal
responsibility that Congress has shirked.

In principle, he's right, but he shouldn't take food out of people's mouths to
make that point. He should restore the money while lobbying Congress and the
White House to pick up their obligation.

That's what California did a few years ago, when the issue first arose.
California became the first state to pick up the tab after Congress cut all food
stamp funding for legal immigrants as part of its welfare reform act. President
Clinton admitted the anti-immigrant measure was wrong, and eventually Congress
restored the money -- or at least part of it.

Congress approved food stamps only for legal immigrants who were in the country
as of August 22, 1996, when welfare reforms took effect; and even then, only to
children and senior citizens, not working-age immigrants.

Since then, at the Legislature's prodding, California continued to fill the
breach, temporarily extending food stamps to all recent immigrants, regardless
of age.

Many who qualify for food stamps are too timid to apply, which is why thenumber
of estimated recipients -- 8,500 -- is so low. Most of those who will apply are
among the working poor. They are holding subsistence jobs at garment factories
and in kitchens.

Children of immigrants born in America can apply for food stamps as U.S.
citizens. But when parents and other adults are denied assistance, others go
hungry. People share what food they have; that's the nature of families.

Food-stamp legislation pending in Congress includes a provision to extend the
program to all legal immigrants, regardless of when they arrived. The bill has
numerous sponsors and many advocates. We hope it passes. But the state shouldn't
hold some legal immigrants hostage until it does.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 14, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GANGS EXPLOIT HUMAN CARGO SMUGGLERS DELIVER DESPERATE CHINESE

BYLINE: BRANDON BAILEY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1358 words


The sick and desperate Chinese immigrants who were found inside a cargo
container in Seattle this week were only the latest victims of organized-crime
groups that make easy profit by exploiting the vulnerable.

Two men were indicted Thursday on federal conspiracy and immigrant-smuggling
charges. But the discovery Monday of the human cargo from the southern coast of
China -- 15 men who spent 20 days locked in a metal shipping container with only
a little food, scarce light and no toilet -- has been repeated more than a dozen
times during the past year. Officials have found nearly 200 illegal immigrants
in cargo containers at West Coast ports from Long Beach to Vancouver, Canada,
including the bodies of three men also discovered Monday in Seattle.

Evidence appears to link several of the cases to the men indicted Thursday. And
authorities believe that many of the smuggled Chinese were destined for New York
City. There, powerful Asian criminal syndicates act as labor brokers for
sweatshops, brothels, restaurants and other businesses that thrive on the cheap
labor of illegal immigrants who are working off exorbitant fees charged by the
smugglers, known as "snake heads."

To authorities in the Bay Area, it's a familiar crime.

Three years ago, police raids in San Jose exposed a criminal pipeline that
allowed Asia-based gangs to bring young women from Thailand to work -- sometimes
unwillingly -- as prostitutes in the United States and Canada.

In 1996, when a gang of mostly Vietnamese crooks was indicted in a series of
multimillion-dollar computer-chip robberies in Silicon Valley and elsewhere,
authorities also said their ringleaders had been paid $650,000 by a New York
syndicate to smuggle 280 Chinese immigrants ashore from a freighter off the San
Mateo County coast.

"Asian organized crime historically relies on alien smuggling," federal
prosecutor Stephen Gruel told reporters after a jury convicted Johnny That
Luong, the gang's alleged leader, and five others who helped bring the
immigrants into the United States at Moss Landing and Half Moon Bay.

'A lucrative business'

"It is a lucrative business with high profits and low costs," Gruel said.

Luong is still facing trial on charges that he masterminded a series of violent
"takeover" robberies at computer-chip manufacturing and assembly firms on the
West Coast. During his smuggling trial, authorities presented evidence that his
group -- which members called "the Company" -- was hired asa subcontractor by
three Asian gangs based in New York City, known as the White Tigers, Fuk Ching
and the Broom Street Boys.

New York is the traditional destination point for an immigrant-smuggling route
that begins in China's Fujian province, although experts say some Fujianese are
winding up in cities like Los Angeles and Atlanta.

While the Bay Area has a large Chinese-American community, experts and activists
say most of the local community is long established and traces its ancestry to
other regions of China. Recent immigrants are likely to be more affluent and
have legal status. If they are here illegally, they are more likely to have
entered on temporary visas without the aid of smugglers, said Frank Tse of the
non-profit Asian Law Alliance.

In contrast, New York has the largest U.S. community of people from Fujian, and
it's easier for new immigrants to be quickly absorbed into the underground
economy there, said Peter Kwong, a professor of Asian studies at New York's
Hunter College, who has studied illegal immigration.

Fujian has been a key point of origin, experts said, because it has an ample
supply of rural and impoverished residents who are potential candidates for
emigration. And the province's criminal element has long experience dealing with
gangsters in nearby Taiwan and other countries.

Experts say the smuggling trade is often built on economic relationships between
various criminal groups, and is not necessarily controlled by a single,
monolithic organization.

In one common scenario, according to Ken Elwood, a top-level enforcement
official with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, someone running an
illicit business in New York would tell a contact in the local crime syndicate
that he needs workers.

"The organized-crime member in New York acts as a sort of employment broker," he
said. "The order is put out in China, where criminal groups have contacts all
through the rural and agrarian areas."

Indentured servants

Rural Chinese who volunteer to emigrate think they're getting a chance at a
better life, Kwong said. But most speak no English and have few skills, so they
are forced to work as indentured servants to pay off their debts -- as much as
$60,000 -- to the smugglers. Sometimes it's in a garment factory or unlicensed
construction firm; other times the work involves prostitution or drugs.

With China's huge population and an economy going through a major
transformation, experts say China has been a source of workers who emigrate
illegally to countries all around the world. But Elwood said the United States,
with its established Chinese communities, is an especially attractive
destination because its own economy is so strong.

Thousands from Fujian

He estimated that U.S. authorities are intercepting 2,000 to 3,000 illegal
immigrants from Fujian a year, while acknowledging there's no way of knowing how
many people have made it into the country undetected.

The cargo containers are a relatively new tactic. But in recent years, Chinese
stowaways have been caught trying to enter the United States on ships headed for
Canada, Mexico and Savannah, Ga.

While conditions in the containers are dangerous and inhumane, they may be more
profitable for the syndicates, Elwood said.

Smugglers used to get $30,000 a head for bringing immigrants in on aging, rusted
freighters, he explained. "The container vessels are described (to the
immigrants) as a safer way to go, although it's absolutely not a safe way. . . .
So they get $50,000 a person. That's money in the bank for these organized-crime
groups."

Several immigrants discovered in a shipping container in Long Beach last year
told authorities they were trying to get to New York. And one of the alleged
smugglers arrested in Seattle last week carried an New York state driver's
license.

Yu Zheng and Sheng Ding, along with a third man who wasn't indicted, were caught
Jan. 2 when federal agents found them in a van near a Seattle shipping terminal.
Acting on a tip from Hong Kong, authorities had just discovered 12stowaways
inside a cargo container newly arrived from China.

After searching the three men and their hotel room, agents found shipping
documents for that container and for two more cargo containers that were
scheduled to arrive two days later.

All three containers had been shipped by a Hong Kong exporter that also shipped
two containers that arrived in Long Beach last month, with at least 30 illegal
immigrants inside.

Two more containers were discovered in Seattle this week, including the one with
the three Chinese who died. But the indictment issued Thursday charges Zheng and
Ding only with smuggling the container discovered Jan. 2; prosecutors declined
comment on the other incidents.

The immigrants detained in Long Beach and Seattle have been given medical
treatment and face deportation proceedings. Officials say many have already
expressed interest in requesting political asylum in the United States. Such
requests aren't granted routinely. Experts, however, say many immigrants are
eligible for release on bond while their asylum request is pending.

"Many of them disappear, at that point," Elwood acknowledged.

U.S. authorities say they are working closely with Canadian and Hong Kong
officials to investigate the recent incidents. Elwood said he's confident they
will make more arrests and win convictions against the smugglers. But he
acknowledged it probably won't mean the end of the smuggling business.

"As we are successful in our enforcement efforts, they respond with different
tactics," he said. "They are great entrepreneurs."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Brandon Bailey at bbailey@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5022.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map;
PHOTO: CRAIG Y. FUJII -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Water bottles, a mattress and boxes were emptied from a cargo container that
carried 11 Chinese stowaways to Long Beach in February.
[000114 FR 21A]
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Human Cargo
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Services

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 21, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLING FIGURE IS ARRESTED IN ASIA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 125 words


After a five-year pursuit spanning Asia and the Americas, U.S. authorities say
Hong Kong police have captured a ringleader of the Golden Venture
human-smuggling operation, in which 10 illegal Chinese immigrants died after a
freighter ran aground off New York in 1993.

The suspect, Cheng Chui Ping, 51, was arrested on Monday at Chek Lap Kok Airport
in Hong Kong by officers from the Hong Kong Narcotics Bureau, law enforcement
officials said. She was apparently dropping off her son, who lives in the New
York City region, they said.

The FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization Service will seek Cheng's
extradition at a hearing June 16, on the basis of a 1994 federal indictment in
Manhattan involving a separate smuggling operation.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 14, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B, H-2B, H-3B . . . H-20,000B

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 205 words


THE federal immigration service is giving away so many high-tech work visas,
perhaps it should keep some for itself. It could use some programmers to convert
the agency from abacuses to computers.

Last week, the Immigration and Naturalization Service made a remarkable
acknowledgment: It may have handed out as many as 20,000 more H-1B visas in the
year that ended Sept. 30 than the yearly quota of 115,000 permits. The excuse:
No one in headquarters was keeping track. The four INS centers doling out the
visas kept separate tabs.

Such an admission normally would strain credulity. But this is the INS.

The latest disclosure should persuade Congress not to increase the annual limit
on H-1B visas until it knows what the program already is doing. Sen. Phil Gramm,
a Texas Republican, recently proposed raising the cap to 200,000 per year.

Some in Congress want to ignore the mistake. Others advocate revoking the visas,
but that would victimize 20,000 foreign workers for mistakes they didn't create.

An alternative would be to credit the 20,000 surplus to the fiscal year that
began on Oct. 1. That would leave the government still with 95,000 visas to give
out -- assuming, of course, that the INS can count.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: QUICK HITS

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 21, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNIONS' LATEST ORGANIZING PUSH: IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MAUREEN FAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1189 words


With statistics showing that unions may be halting decades of declining
membership, the labor movement is focusing anew on a rich vein of potential
recruits: immigrant workers.

And in Silicon Valley, where one in three people are foreign-born, activists say
union halls are engaged in a pro-immigrant push that the labor movement has not
seen since the days of Cesar Chavez.

Numbers released this week by the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed that the
percent of American workers who belong to unions remained essentially unchanged
from 1998 to 1999. California's numbers rose slightly, from 16.1 percent to 16.5
percent.

But labor leaders say those numbers are encouraging news after years of steep
decline. In 1970, about 35 percent of California's workers were union members.
In 1980 that number dropped to about 27 percent, and by 1994 it had dwindled to
about 18 percent.

"Unions are focusing and becoming much more aggressive about organizing new
members," said John Dugan, an organizer with the Communications Workers of
America in Burlingame.

Many unions are now making immigrant workers a key part of this drive. And the
new focus is one that distinguishes less and less between documented and
undocumented workers, experts said.

"With a few exceptions, the labor movement has considered its traditional base
to be the white working class," said Carl Biers, executive director of the
Association for Union Democracy, a New York watchdog group forrank-and-file
unionists. "Now they're saying, increasingly, the workers we need to organize,
the service industries that are expanding in this country, are immigrant
industries. Therefore, for us to grow and increase the size of the labor force,
we need to include them."

Giving information

Khanh Tran, who immigrated to the United States from Vietnam seven years ago, is
working to make that happen. At 46, she's a union organizer with San Jose's
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 428.

"Many new arrivals have been living under Communism for such a long time. The
last thing they want to do is join a union," Tran said. "They have unions in
Vietnam, but you have to join and they focus on politics. It's a totally
different animal. When I organize Vietnamese workers, I meet them face to face
and say, 'You had no freedom in Vietnam, now you do. Why throw it away?' "

Tran belongs to the Bay-Area based Labor Immigrant Organizing Network, or LION.
The group formed a year and a half ago so that union organizers could share
recruitment strategies, pool resources and lobby together for immigrants -- both
legal and illegal.

"It started out with sharing testimony about what's happening at other job
sites," said Roger Rivera, a special projects representative for Local 428 and a
founding member of the network. "But it's become a great way to improve
recruiting and set policy and help people who are often on the lowest rung."

The network has helped organizers understand the differences, for example, in
recruiting Punjabi taxi drivers, who come from an aggressively pro-labor
background country, and newly arrived Vietnamese workers, who have fled a
communist country where unions often represent the government's point of view.

This year, 7.2 million Asians and Hispanics will make up more than 41 percent of
California's prime working age population: people between the ages of 20 and 54,
according to state Department of Finance projections.

Finding a balance

Most of these workers are not immigrants and many are third- or
fourth-generation Americans. But the growing diversity has helped spotlight
immigrant concerns.

"We're looking at a workforce that is mostly Latino and Asian in California,"
said Katie Kwan, a founder of the network and labor policy specialist for
University of California-Berkeley's Center for Labor Research and Education. But
many unionists worry that too much of an emphasis on the rights of undocumented
workers might weaken protections for workers in general and lead to the loss of
so-called "American jobs." The same fears fueled labor's support of the 1986
laws that established sanctions against employers who hire illegal immigrants.

But one of the strongest signs the tide has begun to shift is the willingness of
the labor movement to study a controversial proposal to do away with employer
sanctions.

The AFL-CIO leadership three months ago agreed to sponsor town hall meetings in
the spring to look at the exploitation of immigrant workers and the retaliation
many face when they try to organize.

Backed by a growing number of labor coalitions, the proposal opposes cooperation
with immigration authorities and urges the repeal of sanctions and the adoption
of a new amnesty program for undocumented workers. It's endorsed by the South
Bay Labor Council and sister organizations in Alameda, Monterey and Santa Cruz
counties, as well as the 2.1 million-member California Labor Federation, which
called for similar changes five years ago.

"We basically feel immigration laws should be broken. We should protect
undocumented workers, we should harbor them, we should not cooperate with the
INS," said Warren Mar, a Labor Immigrant Organizing Network member and AFL-CIO
recruitment coordinator for the Northwest.

"If everybody who was undocumented stopped working for one day, the California
economy would collapse," Rivera said. "Who do you think picks lettuce in this
country? Or works in hotels, restaurants, car washes -- everything we like to
have at a low price?"

The proposal will also be the subject of a February conference inWashington.
Traditionally sponsored by the National Immigration Law Center, the conference
will for the first time also be hosted by the Asian Pacific American Legal
Alliance and the Labor Council for Latin American Advancement.

"In the past it has been strictly a public benefits conference that focused on
immigrant eligibility for food stamps and the like," said Rand Quinn, policy
director of the Northern California Coalition for Immigrants Rights. "This year,
it will also tackle employment strategies, employer sanctions and the rights of
undocumented workers. It's a recognition of the need for the labor and immigrant
movements to collaborate."

Recruiting immigrants is not entirely new, of course. Targeting workers from
apple pickers in Washington state to strawberry workers in Watsonville, the
AFL-CIO has highlighted the importance of bringing immigrants into the movement.
But to make immigrants the framework or the main target of organizing is a new
approach, Biers said.

Several factors have prompted the AFL-CIO to take strong pro-immigrant
positions, said Matthew Finucane, deputy director of the federation's civil
rights department. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has increased work
site enforcement and its use of technology and record checks, he said. "The
percentage of minorities in the labor movement is increasing. The rate of
immigration is higher than at other times and there's really just a lot of
energy and willingness to stand up for worker rights among many immigrant
communities," Finucane said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Staff writer Margaret Steen contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 23, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BERKELEY SEX CASE FUELS CRITICISM VISA PROGRAM ABUSE ON RISE, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: BRANDON BAILEY AND PETE CAREY, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1252 words


Beyond the tragic story of young girls allegedly imported for sex, the case of a
Berkeley businessman accused of arranging fraudulent visas illustrates a growing
problem with an immigration program that many Silicon Valley firms -- and
workers -- consider vital to their success.

Lakireddy Bali Reddy, 62, was jailed last week on federal charges that he
brought the three teenage Indian girls to the United States for sexual purposes.
Authorities say two of them entered the country by posing as daughters of a man
who agreed to the scheme after Reddy helped him get a special visa to work at a
Bay Area tech firm.

The H-1B visa is reserved for foreign workers with special skills who can
perform jobs that are otherwise hard to fill. But authorities say the phony
father actually worked at one of Reddy's restaurants.

Federal officials say fraudulent cases make up only a fraction of the overall
number of visas issued. Yet, they say, instances of fraud appear to be on the
rise, providing fresh ammunition to critics of the program.

"What we are increasingly seeing are cases . . . of visas approved for
individuals to enter the U.S. on the premise that they will assume a highly
technical job -- only to find that the individuals are low-skilled workers
slated for employment as janitors or nurse's aides or store clerks," Jacquelyn
Williams-Bridgers, the U.S. State Department's Inspector General, told Congress
last May.

Success stories

Since it began 10 years ago, the H-1B program has been a boon both for high-tech
companies and talented engineers and programmers from other countries, including
people who have gone on to start their own firms or become top executives at
Silicon Valley corporations.

"One black sheep does not make sheep black," said Ashok Banerjee, 26, a computer
scientist at Oracle, who obtained one of the visas after earning a master's in
computer science from the University of North Carolina.

"H-1B workers are just a community of technically skilled workers who have come
to this country to accomplish their own individual goals," said Banerjee. "And
isn't capitalism about people accomplishing their own individual goals and hence
building our goals collectively?"

But the program has been troubled by several recent cases of alleged fraud:

* Last week, federal agents arrested 40 Indian immigrants in Texas. Officials
said they suspected two subcontracting firms of bringing the workers into the
United States under false pretenses.

* In November, the president of an Atlanta software company pleaded guilty to
smuggling at least 43 Indians into the United States by obtaining H-1B visas for
jobs that didn't exist.

* Last summer, Williams-Bridgers told Congress of a case in which a self-styled
legal and financial consultant was forging H-1B visas and selling them to people
who used them to obtain bogus Social Security cards and driver's licenses.

Such schemes are an attractive alternative to other means of entering the
country illegally, said U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of a
congressional subcommittee on immigration.

"Traveling with a visa offers safety and comfort," Smith said during the May
hearing. "Who wouldn't choose a comfortable seat on an airplane over the
unventilated hold of a ship or a long-distance trek through the wilderness?"

The H-1B program has grown since its inception in 1990. Under pressure fromthe
high-tech industry, Congress nearly doubled the annual quota on skilled foreign
workers, from 65,000 in 1998 to 115,000 in 1999 and 2000.

Tracking system lacking

While many of these workers come to Silicon Valley, INS officials said the Reddy
case is the only recent example of alleged H-1B fraud that has surfaced in
California. But some officials have acknowledged that federal agencies have no
centralized system for tracking visa fraud.

"There is very little hard data available," Justice Department Inspector General
Michael Bromwich told Congress. He faulted both the INS and the State
Department. "This lack of comprehensive statistics hinders the ability (of
authorities) to appropriately respond to visa fraud."

One audit conducted by federal officials last year uncovered startling figures.

Of all the H-1B visas granted to immigrants from around the world, the largest
number -- roughly 44 percent -- are issued in India, which has many skilled
professionals who are eager to get experience working in this country. When U.S.
officials audited about 3,200 visa applications submitted in Chennai, India,
last year, they were unable to verify claims made on 45 percent of the
applications.

Officials said 21 percent of the applications were found to be clearly
fraudulent.

"I think we've seen the H-1B program is subject to manipulation by criminal
conspiracies," said Chuck DeMore, the INS district director in San Francisco,
whose office investigated the Reddy case. But he added that "just about any kind
of visa that's out there is subject to being fraudulently obtained."

Other visa problems

Examples of fraud involving other types of visas run the gamut, according to
federal officials. In one case, Bromwich testified, a former INS official based
in San Jose was indicted for allegedly taking more than $450,000 in bribes to
create false records so more than 200 Korean citizens could remain permanently
in the United States.

In another case, officials say one of the suspects involved in a plot to bomb
the Brooklyn subway was a Palestinian who entered this country on a visa that
had been issued so he could catch a connecting flight to Ecuador.

As for Reddy, the Berkeley real-estate mogul is specifically charged with
importing foreign nationals for immoral purposes and inducing them to enter the
United States illegally. Authorities say they are still trying to determine if
other visa abuses occurred. Reddy has denied any improprieties.

Despite the charges, supporters of the H-1B program call it a success.

"We certainly don't condone any kind of fraud," said John Hatch, a spokesman for
the American Electronics Association, a high-tech industry trade group. But he
said the program has been vital to helping the industry grow.

Since 1993, he said, high-tech firms have hired more than 1 million new
employees, many of them in skilled technical jobs. Meanwhile, he said, the
number of students earning degrees in those fields from universities in this
country has dropped.

Some critics charge that the program can lead to exploitation of foreign workers
and help employers avoid hiring qualified American workers who might demand
higher salaries.

Others say the economic boom of the last decade is due in part to immigrants who
bring their skills and energy to work in this country.

"We recruiters are struggling daily to find enough qualified people for the
openings," said Bashker Biswas of Integrated Personnel Systems in Fremont. "What
choice do we have? We are looking around the U.S., around the world.

"The H-1B, it's absolutely useful," he said. "If one or two people are bad
apples, let's clean them out, but the concept or vision is not bad."

Smith, the Texas congressman, also has urged greater efforts to weed out fraud.

Because there's a limit on the number of H-1B visas issued each year, said Allen
Kay, the congressman's aide, "Every visa that is used fraudulently is avisa
denied to a U.S. company that has a legitimate need for an H-1B worker. The
high-tech industry gets hurt with every single one of these cases."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: Page 6A

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 20, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISA CAP NEEDS TO RISE, BUT CAUTIOUSLY FOR NOW

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 729 words


A RED-HOT high-tech economy is a mighty force. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service has been an immovable object. Their collision has created
the wreck known as H-1B, a temporary visa program for skilled foreign workers
perpetually needing repair.

High-tech companies complain that the annual limits on visas don't come close to
filling the Valley's critical shortage of skilled workers. Critics of H-1B and
the INS blame the bureaucracy for bollixing the system.

We suspect there's truth to both claims.

Two competing bills now before the House would again overhaul the H-1B program,
though each starts from a different assumption.

One, a bipartisan bill co-sponsored by Democratic Rep. Zoe Lofgren of San Jose
and a fellow Californian, Republican Rep. David Dreier, would ease the worker
shortage by nearly doubling the current quota of H-1Bs (115,000 this year,
107,500 in 2001) to 200,000 a year for the next three years. It would also
require the INS to speed up and computerize the review process. And it would
eliminate inflexible quotas for permanent work visas or green cards, a related
bottleneck that creates headaches -- and sometimes heartaches -- for immigrants
and their sponsors.

The other bill, sponsored by Texas Republican Lamar Smith, with the backing of
Republican Rep. Tom Campbell of Campbell, sees fraud and abuse as the root of
the problem. It would bump up the H-1B ceiling by 45,000 for this year to
account for INS-induced foul-ups last year, then retreat to lower limits in
future years. It would transfer the oversight of the program to the State
Department, require tougher verification of an applicant's academic degrees, and
eliminate the smaller H-1B "job shops" where much of the abuse is suspected.

The Lofgren-Dreier bill has a counterpart in the Senate, where there appears to
be support for jacking up H-1B quotas. But Smith is the chairmanof the House
subcommittee on immigration, with the power to steer bills his way. Our
preference would be to combine features of both bills and to compromise on
quotas.

The high-tech economy has a voracious need for skilled jobs, with no sign of
abating. Between visas pending or awarded, companies already have reached this
year's H-1B cap, with half of the year to go. A persuasive case can be made for
boosting the H-1B limit permanently. How high is the issue.

The arguments over the ceiling have been emotional and largely anecdotal. But
Congress will be in a better position to say after Oct. 1, when the National
Science Foundation completes a two-year study of high-tech jobs. Meanwhile,
Congress should be cautious in lifting the cap over what Smith proposes: 160,000
this year.

Smith is right to focus on abuse and sloppiness. One investigation of the
consulate in Madras, India, found numerous cases in which college degrees were
falsified or unauthenticated. If it dug deeper, the government likely would find
a lot more fraud. There have also been allegations of exploitation of H-1B
engineers, not by the Valley's big corporations, but by contractors for
start-ups and small software developers. The Labor Department has yet to act on
some of the safeguards that Congress has mandated.

The Lofgren-Dreier bill would reserve one third of the H-1B visas for those
holding advanced degrees -- one way of assuring the best and the brightest get
jobs. It would also correct a number of inequities:

(hbox) Companies would be allowed to recruit over the Internet for the H-1B
program.

(hbox) H-1B visa holders seeking a permanent work visa could remain in the
country until the INS has acted on their applications. As it is now, they're
kicked out after six years.

(hbox) The INS would be able to waive the tight nation by nation quotas on green
cards that has severely restricted Indian and Chinese engineers seeking
permanent residency.

Both the Smith and Lofgren-Dreier bills would raise a company's H-1B application
fee from $500 to $1,000. The money would fund college scholarships for math,
engineering and science majors and retrain displaced American workers for
high-tech jobs. (Lofgren would also forgive loans for science and math majors
who agree to teach in low-income areas.)

On one key point, all of the sponsors agree: The long-term solution for a
well-educated workforce must come from within America, not from abroad.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 12, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

REVISION WOULD REMOVE VISA CAP H-1B BILL RETAINS OTHER PROVISIONS

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The chairman of an important congressional immigration committee Tuesday revised
an earlier proposal to increase the number of visas for highly skilled foreign
workers, removing any annual limit for the next three years but keeping
provisions that the high-tech industry has opposed.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said he changed his legislation because the
Immigration and Naturalization Service recently said that demand for so-called
H-1B visas was running 50,000 ahead of last year. The annual number of visas now
is capped at 115,000 after an increase in 1998. All of those visas have been
allotted for the 2000 fiscal year, a full six months before it ends, leading to
calls from Silicon Valley to increase the number.

Smith's bill, which is co-sponsored by Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, is one of
three pending in Congress. He originally proposed increasing the annual cap to
160,000 in 2001 and 107,500 in 2002. Those numbers were significantly less than
a bipartisan bill by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, that would have boosted the
annual number to 195,000 for three years and another bill in the House of
Representatives, co-sponsored by Reps. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, Anna Eshoo,
D-Palo Alto and David Dreier, R-Covina. Under the 1998 law, the number of visas
will start dropping next year, to 107,500, and in 2002 will go down to 65,000.

Although Smith removed any annual cap, he kept in place other provisions that
high-tech officials said would make the program more cumbersome. Smith's bill
would force the Clinton administration to enact reforms in the 1998 law designed
to clamp down on so-called job shops -- companies that bring workers to America
on H-1B visas and contract them out. H-1B visa holders have complained that
those companies pay them less than what American workers get.

Smith also would only make the visas available to companies that can prove that
they have increased their number of American employees and the compensation paid
to them in the previous year.

"This bill responds generously to the immediate temporary needs of the high-tech
industry and also includes provisions that are good for American workers," Smith
said.

But the high-tech industry has argued that Smith's provisions would do little to
eliminate fraud in the system and would make it more difficult to get visas for
the foreign workers they say they need to fill thousands of vacancies. Mary Dee
Beall, government affairs manager for Hewlett-Packard Co., said the high-tech
industry still favors the other two bills, which are pretty similar and also
both offer exemptions from the cap to foreigners graduating from U.S.
universities.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2000

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 4/13/00, pg. 2A) An article on
Page 1C on Wednesday incorrectly stated a provision of one of the bills in
Congress to increase the number of H-1B visas. The bill by Reps. David Dreier,
R-Covina, Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, and Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, would reserve
60,000 of the visas each year for people with a master's degree or higher and
specifies that 10,000 visas are to be used by institutions of higher education.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 18, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MANY ON H-1B VISAS IN LIMBO WITH NEW BILL

BYLINE: Compiled from reports by Bloomberg News, Dow Jones News, Service and
Mercury News staff writers.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 157 words


Many workers on temporary H-1B visas who wish to stay in the U.S. may be forced
to return to their home countries, says a study released Monday. If pending
legislation increasing the cap on H-1B visas passes, it will create a bottleneck
in the immigration system allowing only about 15 percent of entering H-1B
workers to get green cards before their six-year visas expire, the study
concludes. Historically, more than 50 percent of such workers apply for
permanent residency. The study estimates that if the cap is increased, the
number of workers on H-1Bs will increase from more than 420,000 today to
approximately 710,000 in 2002. At the same time, estimates the study, current
immigration limits will allow only about 25,000 of these workers, together with
their families, to obtain permanent residency status each year. The study was
released by the Institute for the Study of International Migration at Georgetown
University.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tech Ticker

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 30, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT, LABOR LEADERS JOIN HANDS RALLY:GROUPS PROMISE TO FIGHT FOR WORKERS'
RIGHTS.

BYLINE: JOSHUA L. KWAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 615 words


About 500 immigrant and labor supporters waved the red flag of the United Farm
Workers union and cheered as immigration and union leaders promised to fight
together for workers' rights.

A panel of eight community leaders heard testimony Saturday afternoon from
nearly a dozen researchers, activists and workers. The panel, made up of
representatives of religious, labor and immigrant-rights groups, will write a
report of recommendations to the AFL-CIO for its legislative strategy.

In February, the AFL-CIO reversed a long-standing opposition to undocumented
workers and passed a resolution to seek amnesty for all immigrant workers and
their families and an end to sanctions against employers who hire undocumented
workers.

"This meeting is a way to say that we're committed to finding ways for labor and
immigrants to work together," said Bob Brownstein of Working Partnerships USA, a
labor research group.

The rally, which packed the gym at San Jose's MACSA Youth Center, was a symbol
of unity between organized labor and the immigrant community, two groups that
once had contentious relations.

Leaders from the AFL-CIO spoke about the contributions of immigrant labor to the
building of America's economy, while immigrant advocates recalled the importance
of unions in obtaining higher wages and better working conditions.

"The immigration laws in the U.S. are broken and they need to be fixed," said
panelist Art Pulaski, executive secretary-treasurer of the California Labor
Federation. "We need to forge a new, stronger alliance of community leaders and
labor, which will allow us to speak out loud and clear with one voice to
convince Congress to grant amnesty to undocumented workers."

In the past, the AFL-CIO cried foul over what it saw as the loss of jobs to
illegal immigrants who were willing to work for lower wages. But as unions
increasingly turn to immigrant workers to fill their ranks, and as more
researchers agree that immigrants help generate -- not steal -- jobs in the
economy, the two forces are building a partnership they hope can make an impact
in places like Silicon Valley.

"The economy here is like an hour-glass," said Gil Villagran, who teaches social
work at San Jose State University. "At the top, there's lots of well-paying jobs
that require engineering degrees. And then the bottom is filled with marginal
jobs that won't really support a family in a dignified way."

Ruy Rodriguez, an undocumented worker in San Jose, would like to join a union to
push for higher wages and medical benefits, but fears that his status as an
illegal immigrant would jeopardize his job as an office painter.

The AFL-CIO's decision to advocate an amnesty will embolden all immigrant
workers to demand better benefits, farmworker Faviola Morales said to the crowd.

"The federal law doesn't protect us," she said, sitting between a banner that
read "Justice for Janitors" and a poster of labor organizer Cesar Chavez. "Not
when our boss can threaten us because of our immigration status."

Most of Saturday's audience were enthusiastic Spanish-speaking workers showing
their support for the AFL-CIO's resolution.

Elizabeth Garcia Quijada of San Jose came from Honduras in 1985 to seek anew
life. As her 5-year-old son ran around her chair, she chanted, "Si se puede"
(Yes we can) after Morales spoke.

"I came here today to support our leaders," said Quijada, a cook at a Mexican
restaurant.

Jorge Gonzales, a speaker and trustee of the San Jose Unified School District,
has high expectations for organized labor's new partnership. "Hopefully, this
resolution will serve as a sign that labor will consistently fight for immigrant
workers."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 8, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS COURTED IN RACE MODEST, LIVELY CROWD GREETS MEXICAN CANDIDATE

BYLINE: MICHELLE RAY ORTIZ, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: BAKERSFIELD


Vicente Fox, the opposition candidate who poses the most serious threat to
Mexico's ruling party in July's presidential election, brought his campaign to
central California on Sunday to woo the migrant workers who could help him win.

The millions of Mexican-born immigrants in the United States cannot vote from
abroad. But Fox, candidate of the center-right National Action Party, believes
their influence with friends and family in Mexico could sway the race.

Another opposition candidate, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas of the left-of-center
Democratic Revolution Party, is testing the same theory. Cardenas was scheduled
to arrive in Los Angeles on Sunday night.

About 500 people turned out to hear Fox in Bakersfield, far below the 5,000
expected.

Fox saluted immigrant workers as "perhaps the greatest patrimony that our
country has." Their success shows what Mexicans can do given the right
opportunities, he said.

Fox said under his presidency, Mexicans abroad would have the right to vote. He
pledged he would get rid of obstacles that hinder Mexicans returning home for
visits and fight for the free transit of people across the border by expanding
the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Fox also promised more jobs and financing programs for rural communities in
Mexico -- the kinds of towns whose inhabitants are often forced to seek work in
the United States.

He was enthusiastically received by the small crowd. Some audience members waved
signs denouncing the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI,and
proclaiming "Death to PRI."

Atanacio Avalos Campos, a 65-year-old farmworker, drove 3 1/2 hours from Oxnard
to hear Fox.

"We want the corruption of the PRI to end," said Avalos, whose wife and family
live in the western Mexican state of Michoacan. "There's no work in Mexico.
That's why we're here -- to make a change."

Mexican expatriates send home some $7 billion a year, making their earnings the
third-largest source of income for their home country, behind oil and tourism.

Fox is in a statistical dead heat with Francisco Labastida, the nominee of the
PRI, which has governed Mexico uninterrupted for 71 years.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Fox
Presidential hopeful spoke in Bakersfield to 500 people.
[000508 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 3, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RESOLUTION ON BORDER LABOR MEXICO: GOVERNORS URGE INCREASE IN VISAS FOR
FARMWORKERS.

BYLINE: HALLYE JORDAN, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 643 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Capping a two-day conference, Gov. Gray Davis and his colleagues from both sides
of the U.S.-Mexico border Friday urged Congress to open the gates for legal
immigration of seasonal agricultural workers.

The governors from the four U.S. states and five of the six Mexican states
agreed that illegal border crossings -- and the violence, discrimination and
fear that goes along with them -- will continue as long as there is a shortage
of jobs in Mexico and a shortage of workers in the United States.

Although the subject of increasing the number of H-1B visas that allow foreign
high-tech workers into the United States had not been addressed by the
governors, Davis referred to it.

"We have a thriving economy, and not just in agriculture," said Davis, who as
chair of the group played host to the 18th Border Governors Conference. "It's
pressing America's workforce to the limits, whether it's H-1B visas in Silicon
Valley or H-2A visas in agriculture. There is a need for more labor than our
country can produce."

Texas Gov. George W. Bush left the session early, heading back to his Austin
home before the closing session. But aide Scott McClellan said Bush, the
presumed Republican nominee for president, also supports "reviewing and
expanding the H-2A program" as well as increasing the number of H-1B visas.

About 30,000 of the 1.6 million seasonal agricultural workers in thecountry are
here under the H-2A program, according to the California Farm Bureau. The
program, in existence for a number of years, is designed to provide U.S. growers
-- who complain of a shortage of agricultural workers -- temporary access to
unskilled workers from Mexico. Efforts are under way to modify the federal
program, which growers say is too cumbersome to use effectively.

Bob Krauter of the California Farm Bureau said the current program threatens the
state's $27 billion-a-year agriculture industry.

Farmers dislike the law because the U.S. Department of Labor requires workers to
be paid a set wage, regardless of what the prevailing wage in an agricultural
area is. Farmers also complain that the law is inflexible because it requires
them to advertise for workers locally, and then notify the labor department that
they need H-2A workers at a specific time, Krauter said.

"These are perishable commodities," Krauter said, "and when they are ripe and
ready for the market they must be picked."

But Marc Grossman of the United Farm Workers union disagreed that there is a
shortage of farmworkers and said high unemployment figures in predominantly
agricultural-intensive counties back him up. Expanding the program "is pitting
the (Mexican) poor against the (U.S.) poor," he said.

The annual conference was created to allow governors of the border states to
explore ways to solve mutual problems. The declaration they signed touched on
how to improve education, economic development, border crossings, tourism and
the environment.

Most of the sensitive work was done in closed-door sessions, with the public
events more tuned to pomp and pageantry. But after the closing ceremony, some
120 members of the American and Mexican press corps were allowed to ask the
governors questions, many of which centered on problems associated with
vigilantism and violence on the Arizona-Mexico border.

Arizona's Republican Gov. Jane Dee Hull said her state's border had become a
battleground as illegal immigration has soared and residents are "frightened for
not only their lives, but their property."

In the short-term, Hull said, she has asked for additional resources to bolster
border control. But the governors all agreed that long-term solutions rest in
the hands of federal lawmakers from both countries.

"Our role is more of an advocate and lobbyist," Davis said. "The decision-makers
are in Mexico City and (Washington,) D.C."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: BOB GALBRAITH -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
California Gov. Gray Davis, center, and Baja California Gov. Alejandro Gonzalez
Alcocer, far left, are given pens to sign documents at the closing of the
Sacramento summit Friday.
[000603 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 30, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER NEWS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 283 words

* London police officers chased a truck for 60 miles after it refused to stop
for inspection in Dover port Saturday, and then discovered it washiding 30 Asian
stowaways inside, police said.

* After spending months in hiding, Zhang Hongbao, a founder of an outlawed
Chinese meditation-exercise sect, has resurfaced in Guam, where China is
blocking his efforts to get political asylum, a human rights group reported
Saturday.

* Two assailants shot and killed a Socialist politician in the Basque region of
Spain Saturday in what police said was the 10th attack by the armed separatist
ETA group in the last two weeks.

* The Lebanese president has given the go-ahead for more U.N. troops to deploy
along the Lebanese-Israeli border, starting today, the United Nations said.

* One of two Cuban doctors who fled to Sweden after spending more than a month
in a Zimbabwe jail said Saturday that the United States had granted them refugee
status and they would soon move to Miami.

* Another white tiger has died at a zoo in eastern India where 12 others have
died in the past month, Indian officials said Saturday.

* A fast-moving train in Sa(tilde)o Paulo, Brazil, barreled down a hill without
braking and rammed another train that was stopped to board commuters, killing
nine and injuring 115, authorities said Saturday.

* Chechen rebels attacked a column of Russian vehicles heading from the capital
Grozny on Saturday toward the Argun gorge combat zone in southern Chechnya,
wounding at least one soldier.

* Presses have stopped rolling for Italy's leftist L'Unita daily, ending a
76-year run that saw the newspaper long serve as mouthpiece for the West's
largest communist party.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 4, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SLOW MIGRATION BY ADDING JOBS, CALIFORNIAN SAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 164 words


California should take steps to soften the impact of immigration such as helping
to create jobs in Mexican regions where people are poor and hungry, California's
Assembly speaker said Tuesday in Mexico City. Assembly Speaker Antonio
Villaraigosa said the solution would not come from laws such as Proposition 187,
which sought to cut education and social services to illegal immigrants, or
demands that foreign countries pay for the education of their nationals. "If we
want to do something about immigration, why not something effective and
intelligent in place of things that will never really stop people who are
hungry?" he asked.

Villaraigosa spoke with reporters in Spanish on Tuesday after meeting Mexican
President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon during a trade mission to California's
southern neighbor. Investing in towns that are sending large numbers of people
to California in search of work should be the priority, he said, not trying to
"militarize" the border.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:;
PHOTO: [no credit]
Villaraigosa
[990804 FR 10A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 8, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ATTITUDE ADJUSTMENT AGENCY REVAMPS S.J. OFFICE WITH CUSTOMER SERVICE IN MIND

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1776 words


IT'S A WARM July morning, and the usual lines of humanity snake around San
Jose's immigration office on Monterey Road.

Nguyen Nuoi, 92, is waiting, too. Looking forlorn, she sits in her wheelchair
outside.

Nuoi submitted her citizenship application to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service in January 1997. Coming to the local INS office is the
only way she knows to find out why she's been waiting 2 1/2 years for any word
from the INS.

This morning Nuoi runs into some luck. INS bigwig Kathy Redman has come outside
to mingle with the masses, trying to answer questions.

Redman, a 46-year-old fireball, is the new face of the INS, arguably the
government's most beleaguered agency. Dispatched from INS headquarters in
Washington, D.C., Redman is in San Jose not only to try to fix the multitude of
problems here, but also to create a model, "customer-friendly" immigration
office for the rest of the country.

No doubt, Redman has one of the toughest jobs in Silicon Valley, where one in
three residents is foreign-born and the stack of backlogged INS paperwork is
higher than Mount Hamilton.

INS critics are skeptical that she'll be able to make much of a difference in an
agency known for long lines, losing track of applications, and arcane and
capricious rules. They say that putting a friendly face on a dysfunctional
agency won't be enough.

But today, as she makes the rounds outside, the energetic Redman, a 21-yearINS
veteran, doesn't show the stress. One of the first people she sees is the frail,
old Vietnamese woman in the wheelchair.

"Everyone else in the family is a U.S. citizen, and she just wants to be part of
it all," says Nuoi's son-in-law, Joe H. Vu, 63, who holds her wheelchair in
place while Nuoi's daughter holds her mother's place in line.

Redman darts inside to find out why her application went astray.

"We're having a great time," she says later in an interview in her office,
sparsely decorated with a wall calendar and pictures of her Lebanese-born
husband and their three children.

Redman, here on a four-month assignment, rattles off a list of niceties that San
Jose INS customers can soon expect. They include easy-to-use information sheets
that will turn pages of governmentese into clear English (and later Spanish and
Vietnamese); a toll-free phone number that will allow people to talk to an INS
employee rather than the Phonemail Lady; and regular evening and Saturday hours.

But, she says, INS critics are right: All the niceties won't amount to much if
applicants are forced to wait two years for a green card or up to 30 months to
become citizens -- the current wait.

"No matter how polished we make the process, unless we provide timely service
we're not providing good service," she says.

TWO-HEADED BEAST
Immigrant services vs. law enforcement

The INS has always been a two-headed beast. One mission is to provide "service"
to the nation's immigrants, the other to enforce the country's immigration laws.

The basic idea behind San Jose's "customer service laboratory" is to see what
happens when the INS separates the two functions. It means that Lois Camille
Chappell, who used to oversee both service and enforcement, is moving to Reno to
head another INS office.

The "service" part of her job is now being filled by Redman, who will ultimately
be replaced by a permanent director of benefits. That director will deal only
with customer service. In addition, the number of front-line employees will be
increased, and a new customer service manager will be hired. A separate division
is now being headed by Frank Fernandez, the assistant officer-in-charge, who
will focus solely on enforcement.

"We're changing the whole dynamic of how we operate," says Johnny Williams,
director of the INS's seven-state Western region.

Williams says he recruited Redman, who climbed the INS ranks from immigration
inspector to deputy associate commissioner, "to get this project off the ground
because of her enthusiasm and can-do attitude."

Santa Clara County Human Relations Director Jim McEntee, a longtime INS
observer, welcomes the moves -- but remains dubious.

"The people I know at the INS have been good people," he says. "But you put them
into the middle of a system, and the system can be overwhelming."

GREEN-CARD PROCESS
Some volume problems, but system errors, too

Since Redman arrived in San Jose on May 24, she has been trying to figure out
exactly why the wait for green cards and citizenship interviews is so darn long.

Most of the reason involves simple math: too many applicants, not enough INS
workers. But part of the problem is systematic.

Redman, for instance, found the unprocessed files of 15,000 people who had
applied to become citizens at least 1 1/2 years ago. But "for some reason they
had not been put in the computer," she says. "Something didn't work."

Getting the system to work has forced her to make some tough decisions. When,
for instance, she found that mail to the San Jose INS office hadn't been opened
in three or four months, Redman had to decide whether it was worth her staff's
time and effort to answer questions from people about the status of their
applications.

No, she determined. It made more sense to keep the staff going through
individual file folders, calling people in for interviews, fingerprinting them,
swearing in new citizens, getting people their green cards.

Within a few days, she says, the caseload of 15,000 old, problem cases will be
down to zero.

Outside in the hot sun, the INS crowd is beginning to get restless. It's shortly
before noon -- and the average wait to get inside the office is about two hours.
Once you pass through the metal detector, it's another hour wait to get to the
first window, where you can pick up a form or be told to take a number and wait
two or three more hours to talk to someone about your problem.

At 12:17 p.m., private security guard Darrell Williams announces that nobody
else will be able to get a number. "You can pick up forms, but that's it," he
says. "They're short-staffed."

A small commotion develops when an Indian immigrant confronts Williams as an
aggrieved baseball manager would bark at an umpire. But the man soon calms down.

"This happens once in a while because people really want to get into the
building," Williams says later. "A lot of people here don't speak English very
well and they don't understand what's going on."

Other people do understand what's going on. They just can't make sense of it.

"It's a form of harassment," says Loreto Cerezo, 45, a San Jose electronics
technician. "They really could make this process easier."

Today, Cerezo, a Filipino immigrant with a pending citizenship application, is
waiting for his mom to finish her citizenship interview. But he's still steaming
about his wife, Nida's, INS experience.

He says the INS had told her to come to the office last August for her
citizenship interview. She was thrilled -- until the interview started and the
hearing officer told her that her paperwork hadn't arrived from the INS's
California Service Center in Laguna Niguel. So the interview was canceled.

Cerezo later spots Redman outside and confronts her, and she soon arranges to
have Loreto and Nida Cerezo come for their citizenship interviews on the same
day. On Wednesday, the couple took their oaths.

The two-story, 48,000-square-foot San Jose INS office looks like any other
government facility. But the employees speak their own language. Naturalization
applications are dubbed nats, applicants for legal permanent residency lappers.
Until they become citizens, the customers are all aliens.

Jenny Pacheco sees the frustration in the faces. She's on the INS front line, an
"information officer" who handles complaints and tries to solve problems at the
window.

"People are aware of the backlog," says Pacheco, 38, who began working in the
mail room 12 years ago. "I try to talk to them and make them feel better. I
check the computer system, make sure that everything is updated. I like to see
people happy when they walk away."

THE BACKLOG
Several factors contribute to nagging problem

The backlog. For almost five years now, it's been the INS's most nagging
problem.

For almost as long, INS officials have promised to trim the long lines. But
nothing has worked.

The flood of new citizenship applications was prompted by a convergence of
several factors. They include a green card replacement program, which spurred
many immigrants to become citizens rather than replace the new card;
California's Proposition 187, perceived by many immigrants as an assault on
their rights; and the 1996 welfare-reform law, which cut off most welfare
benefits to non-citizen immigrants.

Some of the backlog, Redman says, should take care of itself.

Since the INS more than doubled its naturalization fees to $225 in January,
applications are way down. That's allowing the INS staff to cut into the
backlog. In July, for example, the San Jose office received 800 new citizenship
applications and was able to swear in 4,000 new citizens.

"We're getting back into a normal rhythm," she says.

Still, the agency has a long way to go. The number of backlogged cases is still
60,000 in San Jose, 1.8 million nationwide.

But Redman tries not to let the numbers -- or the system -- get her down.

As Nguyen Nuoi finds out when Redman emerges from the building after 45 minutes
to let her know she had located the elderly woman's file.

There was only one problem. The file was in Newark, N.J.

And there was another thing. In April 1998, 425,000 files in Newark were deemed
untouchable after they were contaminated by asbestos. Nuoi's file mightbe one.

No problem, Redman assures her son-in-law. A new INS policy will allow INS
officials in Newark to certify that the file is irretrievable -- so her case
will proceed.

Redman tells Nuoi to return in a week. She'll not only give her a citizenship
interview. She'll also have her own private ceremony.

A week later, several members of Nuoi's family watch her become a U.S. citizen.
"There is no way to express how wonderful I feel," she says.

Redman says she realizes she can't give everyone the same personal attention.
But she says she hopes the attitude will filter down.

"The lesson is that we're dealing with people's lives here, not just paperwork,"
she says.

Redman says she doesn't know what San Jose's INS office will look like when the
customer-service experiment ends in two years. "But I know there's got to be a
better way than making a 92-year-old woman in a wheelchair wait out in the
heat."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A MODEL OFFICE
Here are some of the highlights of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service's plan to turn San Jose into a model office. The Web site has been up
since May. The other efforts are set to be implemented by Sept 30.
* More workers. The number of information officers, INS employees who staff the
front counter, will double to 18. The number of adjudication officers, who
interview applicants, will increase by 10 to 44. A customer service manager will
also be hired.
* A San Jose INS Web page, www.ins.usdoj.gov: field
offices: sanjose. The page answers frequently asked questions and makes it easy
to download forms or request them by mail.
* Expanded mobile outreach program. To better serve customers who live in remote
areas, the staff from the San Jose office will regularly travel to nearby
communities. The itinerary for the mobile units will be closely coordinated with
community groups.
* Toll-free phone line. San Jose will be one of the first communities on the
West Coast to gain access to the INS National Customer Service Center, an
initiative that will provide live assistance to callers across the country.
* "How to" information sheets. Handouts will try to make immigration procedures
easy to follow.
* Expanded office hours. The office will be open evenings and Saturdays.
Source: INS
NEWSMAKER PROFILE
KATHY REDMAN
* PERSONAL: A 21-year veteran of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, Redman, 46, lives in Maryland with her husband and their three
children.
* HER ROLE: Redman is on temporary assignment in San Jose. Her mission is to
create a customer-friendly, model INS office for the rest of the country.
* HER STYLE: Friendly, energetic, candid and decisive.
* WHAT PEOPLE SAY ABOUT HER: "I asked for Kathy to get this project off the
ground because of her enthusiasm and can-do attitude," said Johnny Williams, INS
director of the Western region.
* HER BACKGROUND: Born in Baltimore in 1953. Graduated from the University of
Baltimore with a bachelor's degree in criminal justice, master's in public
administration and a law degree. Started with INS as immigration inspector at
New York's John F. Kennedy airport. Promoted to supervisory and management
positions, rising to deputy associate commissioner for adjudications at INS
headquarters.
* IN HER OWN WORDS: "The lesson is that we're dealing with people's lives here,
not just paperwork."

GRAPHIC: Photos (5);
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Kathy Redman is in San Jose for four months to try to create a model INS office
for the rest of the country.
[990808 FR 22A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Betty Kne leans in to discuss her case with an INS information officer as her
daughter Kelly watches.
[990808 FR 1A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Surrounded by her family and in her own private ceremony, Nguyen Nuoi, 92,
became a U.S. citizen after a 2 1, 2-year wait. A little intervention from INS
official Kathy Redman did the trick.
[990808 FR 1A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Akasah Singh, 2, of San Jose rests on the floor in a waiting room of the San
Jose INS office as his mom, Jasvir Kavr Rai, watches him from a chair.
[990808 FR 22A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Private security guard Darrell Williams explains that no one else will be able
to speak to an INS information officer that day because the office is
understaffed.
[990808 FR 22A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 10, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH TECH VISAS (WILL) (WILL NOT) SOLVE THE PROBLEM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1262 words


AFTER reading the essentials of Rep. Zoe Lofgren's BRAIN act (Page 1C, Aug. 5),
one thinks Lofgren has been brainwashed by the high tech corporations.

Her plan is simple. There is a reputed shortage of high tech workers. There is a
pool of foreign students in our universities with the proper degrees. The BRAIN
act bypasses current immigration limits to hire these individuals.

However, this does nothing to solve the fundamental problem that there are not
enough American students enrolling in the disciplines that the high tech
industry wants. If the immigration limits are not increased for the second time
in two years, then there will be a decrease in the supply of high tech workers,
which will drive up demand and thus increase the salaries for high tech workers
now in this country (native and foreign). The high salaries will encourage
American students to study high tech disciplines. It is simple supply and demand
economics.

The BRAIN act does not solve the fundamental problem, and will simply be
followed by even more relaxation of immigration laws. After all, the BRAIN act
comes on the heels of last year's immigration relaxation that was supposed to
solve the high tech worker shortage.

One has to wonder if Lofgren (D-San Jose) is representing the people of her
district or the corporate powers headquartered there.

Gary Sellani
Fremont
I am a resident of Silicon Valley with the highest concentration of technology
expertise in the world. However, I can claim that many of my friends and I, all
U.S. citizens with advanced degrees, are often unemployed or underemployed. Many
have created independent businesses because they were laid off by corporate
America.

Visit the talent market Web site in which technical and other independent
professionals put their services up for bid (http://talentmarket.monster.com).
Please note that there are few, if any, companies even bidding in the technical
categories where the asking rate is as low as $20/hour. What's the problem here?

Are all American workers challenged in their daily work or could companies be
retraining them? Why don't we see the words "will train" in employment ads
anymore? Why are technical employment ads so specific that a person with an
advanced degree in mathematics or science cannot qualify for a technical
position? Why are we seeing major failures in the aerospace industry after most
experienced engineers were laid off?

A bill to increase the number of H-1B visa workers before every worker currently
in the U.S. is gainfully employed is a disgrace to the American business ethic.

Let these whining companies with unskilled managers hire the laid-off American
worker. This worker is now manager of his/her own small business and is looking
for independent, contract work at a wage the market has determined.

Luciana Messina
San Jose
SOMETIMES I don't know if I should laugh or get disgusted at the extreme
emphasis given to foreign high-tech workers. The truth is that the United States
is at an all-time low unemployment level, and absolutely all fields are
suffering form a lack of qualified workforce. Many marketing professionals I
know get at least one call a week from headhunters across the nation.

Even though some Americans may be getting hurt by the import of labor, overall
the country needs more qualified people making sure things get done. Besides,
several reports have shown recently that immigrants under-utilize public
services, and that a wide percentage of entrepreneurs are of foreign origin. In
other words, immigrants are staying away from eating a big piece of the
tax-funded pie like many think, and many are generating new jobs, tax-paying
wealth, and increasing the offerings to the public.

Marta Donayre
San Jose
Sins of the fathers

MY grandfather's generation passed a bill during the Depression to have my
father's generation pay for his well-being after retirement; he died at 54. My
father's generation spent all of the money on the Cold War and then decided to
let my generation pay for their retirement; he died at 65.

Now the Republicans have a chance to pay off the national debt, but would rather
give multinational companies and the extremely wealthy huge "tax relief." I may
actually live to be 85 and collect the Social Security and Medicare that none of
my prior generations lived to see.

The Republicans would have my children pay for all of this. I don't think so!

M. A. Light
Aptos
Grotesque conviction

B. E. Smith's conviction in federal court for growing marijuana for
compassionate use (Page 3B, Aug. 7), much less his long sentence, is an
outrageous slap in the face to the citizenry and the voters. U. S. District
Court Judge Garland Burrell has overstepped the bounds of judicial propriety in
not removing himself from a case where he knew the defendant in a prior matter.
His refusal to allow Smith to use Proposition 215 as part of his defense is more
evidence of gross judicial prejudice: the passage of that law authorizing the
use of marijuana for compassionate medical relief is primafacie evidence of the
will of the people of the state of California.

I can only imagine that Judge Burrell is attempting to shoehorn the entire
medical marijuana debate into the lap of the Supreme Court, by stage-managing a
conviction which cannot withstand judicial review and a sentence which cannot
withstand common sense. It's too bad he has to do it on the back of a man who is
merely standing up for his rights.

The judge, the governor and the Drug Enforcement Administration had better get
on the right side of this issue quickly, before voter disgust with their
strong-arm tactics starts to erode what little support is left for the bloated
bureaucracy of the "drug wars."

Sarah Stegall
Campbell
Truly free speech

YOU deplore "putting government in the role of policing speech" (Opinion, Aug.
6), but you are really talking about conduct between persons in the workplace.

It's time to realize that the free speech clause has nothing whatever to do with
this situation. Speaking to or about another involves conduct, whether in the
workplace or in the forum, and is subject to regulation.

If we are truly concerned about conduct which demeans another, we might look to
the Declaration of Independence. It plainly says every person is entitled to a
government which guarantees the equal right to "life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness."

It is gratifying, however, to see you acknowledging that no one has an
unqualified right to say what one pleases. Free speech is not free speaking. The
word "speech" in colonial America meant willing conversation.

The speech that is absolutely free ("Congress shall make no law . . .") is
democratic parliamentary procedure such as typified in legislatures, town
meetings and hearing rooms across the country. It is a collective right of a
free people to assemble peacefully and discuss government policies over which
they have ultimate authority.

Louis Worth Jones
San Mateo
Beltway double-talk

THE whir of axes being ground seems ever present in the ongoing tax debate. Even
the supposedly unbiased Q&A in the Mercury News (Page 1A, Aug. 6) told us that
"substantial further cuts in government spending over the next 10 years in basic
programs" are factored into the projected surplus. The forecasts in fact include
an increase in government spending of $2.5 trillion; this is a reduction only in
Beltway double-talk, where a reduction in the rate of increase in a program is a
"cut."

Robert Harrington
Morgan Hill

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 17, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRESSURE ON DAY WORKERS WILL LATEST CRACKDOWN, BY LOS ALTOS, WORK?

BYLINE: KAREN DE SA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1245 words


Los Altos has become the latest Bay Area city to clamp down on day workers, the
immigrant men who line streets before dawn seeking work from anyone who drives
by.

Complaints from businesses prompted the city to prohibit the practice in a
bustling commercial area, a move soon to be followed by Mountain View and
possibly other Peninsula cities. But the experience of San Jose and other cities
where it is already illegal to solicit work from the streets suggests that, even
with bans, day workers are here to stay.

"Ordinances have not been effective mainly because folks who are looking for
work will just go to another location. It has more of a displacing rather than
removing effect," said Christina Sutherland of the Peninsula Community
Foundation. "It's treated as a very local problem, but this ignores the larger
issues of immigration, welfare reform and work authorization -- issues that are
impossible for local communities to resolve."

Meanwhile, day workers continue gathering in East San Jose, tree-shaded suburban
San Mateo and outside Mountain View strip malls. The men are mostly recent
arrivals to Bay Area cities, many with families desperately awaiting their pay.

Day laborers are not new to the Bay Area, but their high profile and the
underground economy they fuel continue to stir controversy. City leaders
scramble to write laws, Latino activists battle for immigrants' rights, and
homeowners and businesses complain.

Depending on who's talking, the workers are either a scruffy bunch who loiter,
urinate in public and intimidate passersby -- or a hard-working group of men who
do jobs no one else will, from gardening to piecework.

While people on all sides of this debate agree that day labor results in
problems, from pay violations to traffic hazards, little has been done to
effectively curb its growing popularity. Day labor will exist, people from
police chiefs to legal aid attorneys say, as long as contractors and homeowners
seek cheap manpower and immigrants seek work, any work, to stay alive.

"Day laborers serve a useful purpose in our society, and as long as that's the
case, they're going to be there," said San Mateo County Sheriff Don Horsley, who
said he knows of no serious crime committed by a day worker in his jurisdiction.
"People think they can fix this problem by making it a criminal problem, but
it's not a criminal problem."

10-year practice

Men have gathered on Bay Area streets seeking work for at least 10 years,
becoming a fixture in many neighborhoods. Increasingly, city leaders from San
Francisco to San Jose are forced to respond. Opposition to day laborers is often
acrid, with charges that they engage in public drunkenness, catcalling and
loitering:

* Los Altos business owners say customers are intimidated from entering stores.

* Parents in Concord say they feel uncomfortable walking their children to
school.

* Half Moon Bay residents say they have to plow through large groups of men to
reach their morning coffee klatch.

* San Jose convenience-store managers complain of littering and men urinating in
public.

Cities such as San Mateo report that as many as 120 men gather each morning in a
single location. It is this presence, in suburban neighborhoods where residents
mainly keep to themselves and street life is minimal, that frightens some
people.

"The neighbors have conflicting values, and rather than having compassion and
understanding about it, they get hostile," said Maurine Killough, a board member
of a San Mateo homeowners association who walks her Labrador retriever each
morning past groups of day workers. "They make people out like they're littering
bums or unsavory characters that are some kind of threat to our well-being. But
I never see this. What I see is a bunch of guys praying they get work that day."

Business owners angry

In business districts, it is shop owners who are often bothered.

"If there were 30 hookers out there standing around, the city would do something
about it. They would arrest them or do something," said Dr. David Vik, 14-year
owner of Mountain View's Vik Chiropractic. "They lean on my 'no loitering'
sign."

Vik said laborers who sit on sidewalks, crouch on fire hydrants, circle potted
trees and camp out on his stoop have driven away 25 percent of his business.
Often, clients appear in his shop shaken and screaming, he said, after being
"accosted."

But outside Vik's shop, homeowners and contractors from upscale communities in
Los Gatos, Hillsborough and Woodside enjoy easy access to the overflowing pool
of laborers willing to work for low wages.

On a recent weekday in Mountain View, Mike Brennan, an Atherton resident dressed
in pleated khaki shorts and a Ralph Lauren polo shirt, landed three employees at
$10 an hour each to help him move furniture.

"I've never had any problem with them," he said. "They're just people on the
street; they don't bother anyone, and they disappear around noon. I know a lot
of people who use them."

As recently as three years ago, cities used the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service to rein in day laborers, a controversial tactic now
considered outdated. But the INS no longer is prone to descending upon day
laborers unannounced, said spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.

"Day laborers can be annoying, but they are not criminals per se," she said.
"Criminals are a bigger priority for us; they have more potential for harm than
these day workers who are just looking for work."

When INS sweeps stopped, some Bay Area cities passed ordinances to curb day
laborers. In San Jose, person-to-person solicitation of work, business or money
has been prohibited near Story and King roads and Camden and Leigh avenues since
1997. In San Mateo and Los Altos, employers can't solicit work from moving
vehicles on major thoroughfares. Mountain View is now considering such an
ordinance, and East Palo Alto officials postponed a decision on the matter.

Although bans largely are considered ineffective, day-laborer centers in San
Jose, Los Altos, San Francisco, Concord and most recently Oakland have had
relatively more success in getting would-be workers off the street. The centers
offer a place for workers to connect with employers in a safe, controlled
environment.

At St. Joseph the Worker Center in Los Altos, the number of day workers has
doubled in the past year. The center is filled to capacity on most days with 70
to 80 people earning between $8 and $15 an hour on days they are matched with
employers. Workers come from as far as San Jose and Fremont, many getting up at
5 a.m. to arrive on time.

"Here it's better because they protect us, they have policies," said Juan
Godins, 45, a San Jose resident who left a wife and four children in an
impoverished Veracruz, Mexico, neighborhood to seek work here. "We can't get hit
by cars."

San Jose's St. Joseph the Worker Center in Alum Rock serves up to 100 people a
day, with the goal of "bringing dignity" to the men, said site manager Mary
Mendez.

The center has served 2,500 workers since its 1993 opening, connecting workers
with homeowners, rather than contractors, in a concession to local labor unions.

When workers don't get paid, staff members pursue their employers and the state
Bureau of Labor Standards and Enforcement if necessary.

Chavelo Camacho, 18, of Mountain View, says he worked a landscaping job for more
than a month in April and May and never got paid his due.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Karen de Sa at kdesa@sj mercury.com or (650) 688-7575.

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN T. BORCHERS
Day laborers mob a car just off El Camino Real in Mountain View. The workers
negotiate prices with drivers who stop.
[990817 LO 1B]
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN T. BORCHERS
At St. Joseph the Worker Center in Mountain View, case manager Caroline Navarro
helps place a worker, at right, with an employer who dropped in to the center to
get help with cleaning up his yard.
[990817 LO 1B]
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN T. BORCHERS
"They lean on my 'no loitering' sign," complains Dr. David Vik, owner of
Mountain View's Vik Chiropractic for the past 14 years.
[990817 LO 1B]
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN T. BORCHERS
Francisco Gomez, 22, foreground, vies with other men for jobs as a day laborer.
Gomez said he came from Mexico City three years ago.
[990817 LO 4B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 19, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TWO-PART SOLUTION FOR DAY WORKERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1109 words


I live in Mountain View where day-worker solicitation (Page 1B, Aug. 17) is a
major problem along El Camino Real. I see two solutions to the problem, both of
which must be done together:

* Pass a county-wide ordinance against sidewalk solicitation and enforce it
aggressively. Coordinate roundups with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to make sure that the people detained are legal immigrants. If they are
not, deport them. This will discourage sidewalk solicitation.

* Provide "safe" areas where people can solicit work without fear of police or
INS harassment and where their presence will have minimal impact on the
neighborhood.

W.R. Hitchens
Mountain View
Y2K exploitation

I view 7-Eleven's plans to capitalize on the Y2K situation (Page 1A, Aug. 18) as
the worst example of exploitative commercialism. Their publicized intention to
hype "preparation" for the presumed coming disaster exploits the worst fears of
the poorest informed and most impressionable of consumers.

How bad will the results be of the potential Y2K computer problem? I don't know,
of course, and won't know for another four-plus months, but I certainly don't
believe that it will be any worse than the results of a natural disaster like a
bad winter storm or an earthquake. And, yes, people should prepare themselves
for these eventualities.

But for consciously taking advantage of the concerns of people over something as
hypothetical as a computer problem and deliberately contributing to those
concerns, I sincerely hope 7-Eleven drowns in its inventory.

Ted Miller
Los Gatos
Don't glorify criminals

THE news media have a bad habit of making criminals famous. All a person has to
do to achieve instant fame is commit heinous crimes. It may be argued that they
achieve notoriety instead, but I doubt the criminals feel that way.

We have seen photos of the man accused of killing four women in the Yosemite
area almost daily since he was apprehended. On Aug. 8, we were treated to photos
of a group of people convicted of mass murder 25 years ago. Now we get to see
photos of the man accused of the recent shootings in Granada Hills. I have not
used the names of any of these people because I don't want to participate in the
process of making them famous.

The time to show the names and photos would be if these people are acquitted,
paroled or escape. Then I would want to know who to protect my family and myself
from. Otherwise, they shouldn't be given celebrity status.

Bob Wimpee
San Jose
Schools are not start-ups

PETER Schrag's column "If schools were start-ups" (Opinion, Aug. 17) raised many
unanswered questions.

It is shocking that Schrag would not question the wisdom of using a corporate
business model as the foundation for reforming schools. Should schools become
entrepreneurial institutions that create a product, such as education, that will
then be marketed and sold for a profit?

In particular, start-up companies, which these new schools would be, must
satisfy venture capitalists by producing a return on investment. In the case of
schools, what is to be considered a return on investment?

Schrag seems particularly enamored by the high-tech business successes that
these entrepreneurs achieved before moving into education. However, does
experience in managing a new business translate into skill in administering a
new school? Furthermore, will the money and power of these entrepreneurs drown
out possible alternative voices, such as those of teachers?

Finally, what type of curriculum, beyond reading, will these new schools adopt?
Will the educational goal of these schools be to train corporate workers who can
fill high-tech job openings? Or, will the curriculum be a balance of arts and
sciences, so that our society gets artists and writers, in addition to engineers
and accountants?

These issues were not resolved by Schrag.

Tim Persyn
Sunnyvale
Clean up our roadways

ON our trip this summer to Florida, my wife, my son and I had the opportunity to
drive from Fort Walton Beach to Orlando and Cape Canaveral.

During the trip, we realized that there was something very different about
Florida roads. There were well-kept trees and shrubs, and carpet-plush grasses
met freshly paved roadway. We marveled at the beauty of this road system. And
then it hit us -- there was no litter, no graffiti, no debris.

This seeming newness to everything was not because it was new but because it was
well planned and maintained. How do they do something we Californians cannot
seem to do? Could they have better programs and systems to maintain their
roadways? Or is it a difference in our personal ethics and responsibility?

On our return taxi ride from San Jose's airport to Campbell, we sat in shocked
silence as we passed more garbage and graffiti-vandalism. We saw more along that
short section of roadway than we did during our entire time in Florida.

Californians, come on. It is time to develop programs that really work for us.
And isn't it about time we began demonstrating more acceptable habits and more
pride in our state? Our roads, as they are, reflect only shame.

Ron Bahlman
Campbell
Too many guns

I disagree with the Aug. 13 letter of Robert M. Bascom (no relation) regarding
guns. Freedom is a balancing act. We have to give something for each freedom we
enjoy. I gladly give my freedom to own a gun in exchange for being free of
shooting rampages against children in a day care center.

Robert D. Bascom
San Jose
ROBERT M. Bascom asserts that freedom depends upon gun-bearing citizens. Does he
believe that countries like Canada and England are closet dictatorships? Am I to
believe that groups like the Michigan Militia make me more secure? Personally I
place my faith in the ballot, not the bullet.

Anne M. Kline
San Jose
I appreciate Rowland Nethaway's column on a second look at the Second Amendment
(Opinion, Aug. 16), allowing for the registration of firearms and gun owners,
but he doesn't go far enough.

The Second Amendment only applies to the limitations the federal government has
over "well-regulated militia" and gives no rights to individuals to bear arms.
As with every other piece of our Constitution, it has been reviewed by our
Supreme Court as to its interpretation and meaning. The court has never stated
that the Constitution contains the right of an individual right to bear arms.

The profusion of destructive weapons requires the use of common sense on the
matter of gun control. We need to quickly limit the sale and use of all firearms
so that we can restore security and sanity to our society.

Patrick J. O'Meara
Half Moon Bay

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 4, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT REVIVES DEPORTATION FILES CASE

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A federal appeals court on Friday revived efforts by thousands of immigrants in
the western United States to see deportation files that were used by federal
authorities to deny them legal status.

A federal judge in Arizona had ruled that he had no authority to consider the
immigrants' right to obtain the files before their legalization requests were
considered. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed and ordered him to
decide whether they needed the information for a fair determination of their
status.

The immigrants, who entered the country illegally before 1982, applied for
amnesty in the late 1980s under a law offering legal residency to aliens who had
lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982, and could show good
moral character. They were all turned down on the grounds that they had been
deported at least once since 1982.

Immigrants in the lawsuit sought to challenge that finding, arguing they had
been deported illegally or hadn't been deported at all, but ran into a problem:
The Immigration and Naturalization Service did not provide their deportation
files before considering amnesty.

They could seek the files under the Freedom of Information Act, but if that
process failed by the time they were denied amnesty, information in the files
could not be used as a defense to a later deportation order.

The appeals court's 3-0 ruling stopped short of saying whether the immigrants
were entitled to see their files before an amnesty decision.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 17, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

1 IN 10 IN U.S. ARE FOREIGN-BORN CENSUS: PERCENTAGE OF IMMIGRANTS SAME AS 150
YEARS AGO.

BYLINE: RANDOLPH E. SCHMID, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As America nears the end of the 20th century, nearly one U.S. resident in 10 is
foreign-born -- a proportion similar to that recorded 150 years ago.

During the 1990s, the nation's foreign-born population increased nearly four
times faster than that of the native-born population, the Census Bureau says in
a report released today.

Overall, there were 25,208,000 foreign-born U.S. residents as of July 1, 1998 --
9.3 percent of the nation's population. That was up from 19,767,316 in the 1990
census, when they were 7.9 percent of the population.

The current share of foreign-born residents is close to the 9.7 percent recorded
in 1850, the first year the Census Bureau asked people their place of birth.

But the new arrivals now come from south and east, unlike the closing years of
the 19th century, when Europeans flooded to America's shores.

"Right now, the biggest immigration groups are Hispanics and Asian/Pacific
Islanders," said census demographer Robert Perkins.

The number of foreign-born Latinos grew 34 percent from mid-1990 through
mid-1998, from 8.0 million to 10.7 million.

Among Asians and Pacific Islanders, the increase was from 4.6 million to 6.4
million in the same period. Indeed, foreign-born people from Asia outnumber
native-born Asian-Americans, 6.4 million to 4.1 million.

During that time span, the foreign-born population grew 27.1 percent, nearly
four times the 7.1 percent increase in the native population, which increased
from 228.9 million to 245.1 million.

The foreign-born share has been steadily increasing since its low point of 4.7
percent of the population in 1970. However, it remains well below the peak of
14.8 percent in 1890 during the massive European migrations here.

The biggest percentage increase of the foreign-born population in the 1990s was
blacks, whose numbers grew more than 40 percent, from 1.7 million to 2.4
million.

"The increase in the foreign-born population since 1990 underscores the need to
make Census 2000 the most complete and accurate census in history," said Census
Bureau Director Kenneth Prewitt. "Virtually every program that helps new
residents adapt to life in America is based on information collected in the
decennial census."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 25, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHINESE IMMIGRANTS DETAINED IN MEXICO

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 100 words


Mexican authorities said Friday that they had detained more than 100 Chinese
nationals believed to have come ashore on the Baja California coast this week in
a bid to get to the United States. Also held were five Mexican nationals
suspected of helping the migrants enter Mexico illegally, said Roberto Perez
Jacobo, the top Mexican immigration official in Baja California.

Perez said authorities rounded up 110 people during an overnight search south of
Ensenada, about 70 miles below the U.S. border. Five of the migrants were
dehydrated but the others were reported in good condition.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 2, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS RUSH EXPECTED AS GREEN CARDS EXPIRE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


About 660,000 immigrants will need to begin renewing their green cards during
the next year, and advocates worry that the onslaught could overwhelm federal
officials.

"It's a huge problem," said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, however, has reorganized to shorten
the waits for obtaining and renewing documentation for immigrants to work and
live permanently in the United States, officials said. In Los Angeles, the
agency set up a special office to handle nearly one-third of the total renewals.

"People should remain calm and not panic," said Elaine Komis, an INS official.
"We're doing everything possible to make this as quick a process aspossible for
them."

Green cards started expiring Friday because in 1989 the INS started issuing the
documents that expire after 10 years. Immigrants' permanent-resident status does
not change because of the expiration, but they may have trouble getting jobs,
obtaining government benefits or returning to the United States from abroad
without a green card.

Because employers might be unfamiliar with the temporary documentation,
advocates worried that immigrants will run into problems at work or returning
from a trip.

"Will the employer know if this is legal or counterfeit?" Butterfield said.
"Will they accept it? It's crazy."

Renewing a green card is expected to take 10 to 12 months, and INS officials
said they were working to shorten that time. In the meantime, immigrants can get
a temporary stamp in their passport that designates their residency status. Or
they can get a temporary photo identification from one of 33 INS district
offices nationwide.

Another concern is that 900,000 immigrants are waiting to get their first green
cards. Processing time has dropped from 27 months to 12 months, agency officials
said. But advocates worry that renewals will get a lower priority than
first-time applicants.

Komis denies that renewals will be shunted aside, saying the paperwork will be
handled separately from first-time applicants.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [Resident Alien card for Rosa Lopez]
INS braces for rush to renew green cards
Friday was the start of a wave of expirations that will force 660,000 immigrants
to seek
renewal of the document in the next year.
[991002 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 4, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS TRIES TO CALM RENEWAL ANXIETY GREEN-CARD HOLDERS BEGIN PROCESS TODAY

BYLINE: DONNA KATO AND BRANDON BAILEY, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 890 words


As many as 66,000 Northern California residents may have green cards due to
expire in the coming months, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service says
it will be ready for the expected rush when its doors open today.

Almost.

"We're ready," said Sharon Rummery, director of public affairs for the INS
district office which covers most of the Bay Area and includes San Jose's office
on Monterey Road. "But we're going to be more ready a few months from now, so we
ask that people not rush in if they don't have to and give us a chance to
streamline the procedure."

Green cards, issued to immigrants who are permanent residents, began expiring
Friday, a decade since the INS started issuing the documents with 10-year
expiration dates. The change was an effort to update photo identification and
take advantage of technological advancements to curb counterfeiting.

The beleaguered local INS office, often maligned for inefficiency and backlogged
cases, has not hired extra help or redirected staff, although it has contacted
airports about potential problems related to the expiration and is developing a
plan for a mail-in application process, said Rummery.

In fact, many residents may not know that their green cards are expiring.

"I don't think most people are aware," said Shirley Trevino, who teaches
American citizenship classes for Latino students in an English As a Second
Language program in Gilroy.

She hopes to organize volunteers and coordinate a large registration drive in
Santa Clara County, perhaps at the fairgrounds. "We need to make aneducational
effort, to ensure that students in our classes make sure they renew. We need to
do the legwork and let people know."

Although there is no penalty for late renewals and temporary documents will be
issued immediately, those who work with immigrants say nervous green card
holders with an expired or expiring document might rush into INS offices if they
felt their travel plans abroad, employment opportunities or benefits were in
jeopardy.

Travel a concern

"There is a huge concern on the part of permanent residents that they will not
have renewed green cards at the time they need them, especially for travel,"
said Richard Hobbs, Santa Clara County citizenship director. "They won't have
any identification to be able to leave the country, or to show their status for
work purposes."

An INS representative in the San Jose office said she's already received anxious
calls from permanent residents whose green cards don't expire until 2001.

The INS says there is no reason to panic.

"Your readers should keep in mind that a green card isn't like a driver's
license, which is useless once it expires," Rummery said, adding that the
holder's immigration status won't expire along with the date. "This isn't an
emergency. Don't get nervous."

About 660,000 people across the country will have to renew green cards in the
next 12 to 14 months, she said. The San Francisco INS district, which includes
the Bay Area and most of Northern and central California, usually gets about 10
percent of the national volume.

"But we don't know if it's going to be that many (66,000). Some of them may have
become citizens (and thus won't need green cards), and some may have returned to
their (native) countries," said Rummery.

But some aren't fully convinced that the renewal process will go smoothly.

"We don't foresee any problems, but you never know," said Jim McEntee, director
of human relations for Santa Clara County, whose office works with residents who
have citizenship issues. "Everything is complicated when you work with the INS."

The document commonly called a green card -- which is no longer green -- gives
immigrants many of the rights and privileges of American citizens. Starting on
Oct. 1, 1989, the federal government began issuing green cards good for 10
years. Before then, there was no expiration date. The first of those cards are
beginning to expire; officials expect a large number to come due for renewal by
spring.

Rummery said an applicant should expect to spend "a few hours" at the INS office
when they go to submit their renewal application. To save time, they can call a
toll-free number (800) 870-3676 and request form I-90 be mailed to them, so they
can fill it out in advance. However, callers to that number Sunday night were
told in a pre-recorded message that due to the heavy volume of calls, requests
could not be taken and to try again later. The form can also be downloaded from
the INS Web site at www.ins.usdoj.gov.

Temporary proof

Green card holders can apply up to six months prior to the expiration date of
the card. But Rummery said the INS hopes to get word out that there's no benefit
to applying so far in advance, since card holders will be issued temporary proof
of their status when they visit their local office with a passport or
appropriate photograph. A temporary stamp will be placed in the applicant's
passport or, for those without a passport, a temporary document with photograph
will be issued. Temporary proof of status will be valid for one year; permanent
cards can take up to a year to process.

Hobbs said that even issuing the temporary documents will put a heavy workload
on the INS staffers who will have to review the applications and issue the
temporary cards or stamps.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANSWERS TO GREEN CARD QUESTIONS
Frequently asked questions are answered by the INS on its Web site
(www.ins.usdoj.gov). Here are some:
Q
How long will it be before I receive my new green card?
A
Currently, it takes about 10 to 12 months to receive your new green card. You
will be issued temporary proof of your lawful permanent resident status when you
go to your local INS office.
Q
When is the best time to renew my green card?
A
You can apply to renew your card up to six months in advance of its expiration
date, but there is no need to rush to apply for a new card too far in advance.
When you go to your local INS office, you will be issued temporary proof of your
lawful permanent resident status that will be valid for one year. You should
bring your passport, and a temporary stamp will be placed in your passport. If
you do not have a passport, you should bring an additional photograph and you
will be issued a temporary document (a stamped Form I-94 with photograph)
on-site.
Q
What should I do if my green card has already expired? Will the INS penalize me
for renewing my card if it has expired?
A
If your green card has expired, you should apply to renew your card as soon as
possible. The INS will not penalize you for renewing your card after it has
expired.
Q
What if I cannot afford the $110 application fee, or I am ill or disabled and
cannot go to my local INS office?
A
If you cannot afford the fee, you may request a fee waiver. If you are unable to
appear in person because of age or physical disability, you can contact your
local INS office to request accommodations.
Q
Why does the INS put 10-year expiration dates on green cards?
A
The INS began putting 10-year expiration dates on green cards in 1989 toallow
the agency to update photo identification and use new technologies to prevent
counterfeiting and tampering.
Q
What if I applied for naturalization less than six months before my card
expires, or I choose to apply for naturalization instead of applying to renew my
green card?
A
You will still need to apply and pay the $110 filing fee to renew your expiring
green card and ensure that you have evidence of your legal status.
Q
Where can I renew my green card?
A
You can order the renewal form, I-90, by calling (800) 870-3676. The form can
also be downloaded from the INS Web site at www.ins.usdoj.gov. Or, you can pick
one up at the San Jose or San Francisco office.
The San Jose office is located at 1887 Monterey Road. It is open from 7 a.m. to
3 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday; and 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. on
Thursday. Information and forms are provided on a walk-in basis only. The
telephone number is (408) 918-4000. The San Francisco district office, which
serves San Mateo and Alameda counties, is located at 630 Sansome St. The
telephone number is (415) 705-4411.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 22, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISAS TAKE NEW TACK SENATE PROPOSAL: IMMIGRATION CATEGORY WOULD HAVE EDUCATION
AND SALARYREQUIREMENTS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A foreign-born worker would need an advanced degree in a high-tech field and a
job offer paying at least $60,000 a year to qualify for a new type of
immigration visa being proposed as a solution to a shortage of technology
workers.

A bill introduced by Sen. Charles Robb, D-Va., would create the new immigration
category for recent graduates of U.S. master's or doctoral programs in
mathematics, science, engineering or computer science who currently are in the
country on student visas.

Businesses would have to pay $1,000 for each visa, allowing a foreign worker to
remain in the United States for five years. Extensions would cost $500 each. The
money would be used to help pay for grants to improve mathematics, science and
technology education in U.S. public schools.

"Our economy has grown, the number of quality jobs has increased and a new and
increasingly more important form of commerce has been born," Robb told the
Senate Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee during a hearing Thursday.

"But as with any burgeoning industry, there are likely to be growing pains, and
the most significant one that we see now is the shortage of skilled workers to
fill the nearly 350,000 vacant information technology jobs in this country,"
Robb said.

High-tech companies have been lobbying hard for Congress to allow more skilled
immigrants into the country for jobs that can't be filled adequately by
Americans.

In response, Congress raised the cap on H-1B visas, which are reserved for
foreigners with specialized job skills, from 65,000 in fiscal 1998 to 115,000 in
each of the next two years.

But even with the increase, the program is fraught with controversy. Earlier
this month, the Immigration and Naturalization Service quietly notified Congress
that because of a computer miscommunication it doled out up to 20,000 more H-1B
visas than the 115,000 allocated for the year ended Sept. 30. The INS exceeded
the congressionally imposed cap by 10,000 to 20,000, the agency said, prompting
angry words from the agency's foes.

It has not been determined how the error will be rectified.

High-tech executives say their businesses are growing so fast that those visas
no longer are enough. All visas for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 may be
used up as early as January, they said.

"What happens when companies like mine can't hire the workers we need?" asked
Susan Williams DeFife, chief executive officer of womenConnect.com, an Internet
site for women in business. "We have to delay projects, and in the Internet
industry where change occurs daily and competitors are springing up all around
you, waiting to execute a project can be lethal."

Skeptics warn that the government must step up efforts to make sure that
companies aren't simply trying to hire foreign workers at lower salaries than
they would have to pay U.S. residents.

Another bill, introduced by Republican Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas, would increase
the number of H-1B visas to 200,000 annually over the next three years.

Robb said he has proposed creating a new visa category because simply increasing
the number of H-1Bs also would increase the number of foreign workers for
industries that aren't experiencing worker shortages.

Those visas "can be granted to anyone from bakers to occupational therapists,
computer programmers to fashion models," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 23, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WORKSHOPS SET BY OFFICE OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: From Mercury News Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 138 words


As part of its effort to create a model, customer-friendly office in San Jose,
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has scheduled a series of
workshops.

A workshop on employment eligibility verification will be at 1 p.m. Tuesday.
Other scheduled workshops and topics:

* Nov. 2, 2 p.m., the citizenship process.

* Nov. 9, 1 p.m., travel documents.

* Nov. 17, 1 p.m., foreign student issues.

* Dec. 2, 1 p.m., employment authorization documents.

* Dec. 7, 2 p.m., non-immigrant (temporary) employment issues.

* Dec. 15, 2 p.m., adjusting status.

All workshops will be in the INS San Jose Office Community Outreach Room, 1887
Monterey Road, San Jose.

Registration is optional. Walk-ins will be accepted as long as space is
available.

For reservations, call Maureen Lenihan at (408) 918-3985.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 28, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CENSUS AD CAMPAIGN LAUNCHED 2000 POLL: THE EFFORT TARGETS TRADITIONALLY
UNDERCOUNTED GROUPS, URGING PEOPLE TO RETURN SURVEY FORMS.

BYLINE: MAUREEN FAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 660 words


Long criticized for not accurately counting minorities and immigrants, the
Census Bureau on Wednesday unveiled its first national advertising campaign, a
$167 million effort in 17 languages that targets traditionally underserved
groups.

The sleek television, radio and print ads, which will start appearing Monday,
are particularly relevant in Santa Clara County, where one in three residents is
foreign-born.

"It's a great beginning and a huge step forward," said San Jose immigration
attorney Richard Hobbs, who is working with county officials to improve the
undercount. "We've had at least 160,000 immigrants enter the county from 177
countries, since 1990."

Ad agencies hired

In a shift from the free ads used during the last census -- some of which aired
at 2 a.m. -- Madison Avenue giant Young and Rubicam was brought in to help
reverse the plummeting numbers of Americans who mail back their census forms.

In the month leading up to census day -- April 1 -- the Census Bureau will be
the nation's third-largest advertiser, behind McDonald's and Burger King.

Four ad agencies that specialize in targeting African-American, American Indian,
Asian-American and Latino audiences also worked on the campaign, conducting
research and testing concepts, said Jennifer Marks, chief of the Census 2000
publicity office.

"There were differences among groups in terms of what obstacles there are to
responding to the census," Marks said in a recent interview. "The Hispanic
audience is very concerned about confidentiality, so that message appears in the
advertising directed at them. The Asian groups really needed more education
about what the census was."

Another appeal to family-oriented Asian-Americans is a sketch of three
generations of one family by Hung Liu, an award-winning Oakland artist who was
born in China and suffered through the Cultural Revolution. "Generations are
counting on you," the poster reads.

'Well done'

"The images are well done," said Linda Jofuku, executive director of a
Japanese-American community center for seniors in San Jose, who has criticized
the bureau's outreach efforts in the past. "They're pretty. How can you not be
drawn to it?"

An ad targeting American Indians features a sculpture by a Alaska Native artist,
John Hoover, and uses elements from different Indian legends about the raven.
Other photographs and television ads feature young African-American and Latino
men urging viewers: "This is our future. Don't leave it blank."

But it will take more than a glitzy ad campaign to fix the 1990 undercount, said
Hobbs and other experts. The 1990 census missed more than 4 million people,
800,000 of them in California and most of them minorities, immigrants and the
poor. Four in 10 households didn't bother to return the form.

In Santa Clara County, the undercount is estimated to have cost the county as
much as $100 million in federal funds over a 10-year period -- not including
revenue lost to cities within the county.

The new media campaign uses 17 languages, including Mandarin, Cantonese,
Spanish, Korean, Tagalog, Cambodian, Vietnamese, Laotian, Russian, Polish and
Arabic. There will also be ads in French and Creole aimed at Haitians and ads in
English aimed at Nigerians, Jamaicans and Indo-Americans.

But so far there's no mention of Hindi or Punjabi, languages spoken in India, or
Farsi. There are thousands of Farsi-speaking Iranians in Santa Clara County,
"more than all Eastern Europeans and Russians combined," Hobbs said.

The bulk of the campaign money -- $111 million -- is being spent on buying air
time and ad space, Marks said.

But community activists and advocates for immigrants say they remain worried
that this approach won't reach the truly hard-to-count.

"Advertising is not the only thing we're doing," Marks said. "We don't expect it
to deliver the least likely audience. We expect it will pave the way for our
partnership efforts."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: U.S. CENSUS BUREAU
One ad targeting Asian-Americans is a sketch of three
generations of one family by
Oakland artist Hung Liu.
[991028 FR 13A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 29, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS CUTS WAIT TIME CITIZENSHIP: IT NOW TAKES 12 MONTHS TO CLOSE A CASE, DOWN
FROM 28 MONTHS.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 839 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service on Thursday said it has cut the
average time it takes to become a citizen from 28 to 12 months -- making
substantial progress even in Northern California, where the citizenship wait has
traditionally been interminable.

"In all of our offices, if you apply today you will be naturalized in one year,"
said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the San Francisco district, which includes
the San Jose office.

Just eight months ago, the wait in San Jose -- home to a burgeoning immigrant
population -- was two to three years.

But one year after the INS promised to halve the waiting time, INS Commissioner
Doris Meissner and Attorney General Janet Reno announced Thursday in Washington
that the agency had completed more than 1.2 million citizenship applications
during the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 -- a 105 percent increase over the
previous fiscal year.

Officials cited increased productivity and staffing -- and falling numbers of
applications.

"Welcoming new citizens is one of the most important things we do as a nation,"
Meissner said. "I am very proud of the remarkable headway INS has made with the
naturalization program."

The INS has been under intense pressure from members of Congress, particularly
those who represent large immigrant districts, to expedite citizenship requests.
At Meissner's request, Congress earmarked $175 million for the INS last year to
help the agency dig from under an avalanche of applications.

Although the agency still has a backlog of 1.4 million citizenship applications,
Meissner promised to cut waiting times even more by this time next year.

"We're in a very solid position to meet this coming year's goal of reducing that
national average to just six months," she said.

More cases closed

Rummery said the San Francisco district office completed 115,000 naturalization
cases in fiscal 1999, as opposed to about 60,107 last year. In August and
September, she said, the San Jose office closed more cases -- 12,047 -- than in
all of fiscal 1998, when it closed 10,530.

Part of the reason for the backlog reduction is simple -- far fewer people are
applying for citizenship after years of surging applications. But even INS
critics conceded Thursday that greater efficiency has played a large part.

"I think the INS has achieved something here," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San
Jose, a member of the House Immigration Subcommittee. "We should give them
credit."

Rummery attributed the speedup to a new nationwide automated system for tracking
each application, more naturalization officers to interview applicants, more
clerks, more overtime hours and more citizenship ceremonies.

"Just do the math," said Kathy Redman, an official in Washington, D.C., who has
been working on reducing the San Jose backlog. "We're only getting about 1,000
applications a month but are able to process between 3,000 and 3,500. We're
catching up."

But Texas Rep. Lamar Smith, chairman of the immigration panel, took issue with
the INS's calculations, saying the national average wait time never exceeded 14
months, even if some individual offices had waits of 28 months or more.

"The administration's claim to have cut in half the waits for citizenship
applicants is a gross misrepresentation," Smith said.

INS officials stood by their figures, saying Smith was apparently
misinterpreting a statement by James Angus, a top INS official who testifiedin
early 1998 that the average wait was 14 months. Angus, however, was referring to
the waits of newly naturalized citizens; the 28-month figure applied to people
submitting applications in late 1998, officials said.

Local INS observers reacted with a mixture of delight and skepticism to the
promise to make new applicants Americans within a year.

"We'd love to see that happen," said Jenny Ocon of the Northern California
Coalition for Immigrant Rights. "But we've heard a lot of promises from them in
the past."

While the INS focuses on new applicants, Ocon wondered aloud what would happen
to the thousands of people who applied in 1996 or 1997 and still haven't
received citizenship interviews.

"What about those who are still lost in the INS red tape?" she asked.

Agreed Santa Clara County Human Relations Director Jim McEntee: "Hopefully, they
can get the whole citizenship backlog cleaned up within a year."

In the last seven years, 6.4 million immigrants nationwide applied to become
citizens. That's more than applied in the previous 37 years.

Legislative factors

The reasons were many. Hundreds of thousands of formerly illegal immigrants who
were given amnesty in the late 1980s became eligible for citizenship.
California's Proposition 187, the incendiary 1994 ballot measure aimed at
barring illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits, spurred many legal
immigrants to register to vote. And the 1996 federal welfare reform act -- which
denied food stamps and other welfare to non-citizen immigrants -- triggered
another application surge.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Lofgren
Member of House immigration panel praises INS.
[991029 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 2, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A GOOD NEWSFLASH: INS CUTS ITS BACKLOG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 195 words


DARE we believe our ears? The INS is getting its act together? The backlog in
citizenship applications has been cut in half?

We've been criticizing the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's lousy
performance for so long that it's hard to break the habit. But we may just have
to try.

Over the years, applicants at the San Jose INS office have waited up to three
years to be naturalized. The lines have been outrageously long and . . . oops,
there we go again.

Ahem. After steady prodding from Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and others, the
INS added staff and took other steps to complete more than 1.2 million
applications this year -- a 105 percent increase over last year. In San Jose, it
closed more cases in just two months than it did in all of last year.

Bravo!

Of course, fewer people applied to be citizens. The surge fed by amnesty,
welfare reform and Proposition 187 leveled off. With fewer new applications,
workers could tackle the backlog, which is 1.4 million cases nationwide.

Now, about that backlog: It's still too high. The INS pledges to cut the wait to
six months by next year. If it succeeds, we'll offer a standing ovation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: QUICK HITS

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 28, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. BORDER POLICY CALLED DANGEROUS MIGRANTS AT RISK, U.N. OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: MARK STEVENSON, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


The United States is endangering the lives of immigrants by forcing them to use
more dangerous border crossings, and the United Nations plans to ask for
consultations with the United States on that policy, U.N. High Commissioner for
Human Rights Mary Robinson said Saturday.

Robinson criticized the U.S. policy -- which involves heavy patrolling of
traditional immigration routes, forcing immigrants to cross through deserts or
mountains -- at a press conference marking the final day of a five-day
fact-finding tour of Mexico that included a visit to the border city of Tijuana.

"I saw the sense of deflecting people at risk to their lives when they decide to
immigrate," Robinson said of the impression she had gotten of U.S.
border-control policy during her visit to Tijuana on Thursday.

"I do intend to take this issue up with the authorities of the United States,"
she said.

Migrant-rights advocates say Operation Gatekeeper, a 5-year-old increase of
Border Patrol agents along the Southern California border, has forced migrants
to take more-dangerous routes to avoid the Border Patrol, resulting in 455
deaths since the crackdown began.

However, Robinson's harshest criticism was saved for the Mexican army, which has
tens of thousands of soldiers patrolling civilian communities in several states,
including Chiapas, which she visited Friday.

"The military presence is very heavy and oppressive in some instances,
especially in indigenous communities," Robinson told a news conference at the
U.N. headquarters in Mexico City. "I believe the very extensive role the
military is playing could be reduced, especially in relation to police
functions."

Robinson also slammed what she called widespread impunity by government
officials and soldiers accused of abuse, and came out strongly against the use
of military courts to investigate allegations of rights violations by soldiers.

"If a military member violates the rights of civilians, that should go before
civilian courts," she said. "I think if it is handled by a military court, that
is viewed as a kind of impunity."

Earlier in Robinson's tour of Mexico -- the result of a government invitation --
she met President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon and said he recognized Mexico
had serious human rights problems. Mexican officials signed a letter of
understanding on rights promotion.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: U.N. rights chief Mary RObinson is critical of U.S. course.
[991128 FR 11A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 28, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN ENVOY HAS HIGH PROFILE CONSUL IN ORANGE COUNTY HOPES TO FOSTER
UNDERSTANDING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


Orange County's new Mexican envoy knows he could take the traditional, low-key
approach of a foreign consul, promoting cross-bordertrade, untangling
bureaucratic snags for Mexicans living here.

But with immigration issues at the forefront of local politics, Miguel Angel
Isidro decided that remaining passive is no way to serve the region's Mexican
community.

Since taking office Oct. 1, Isidro has met with county officials to address
Santa Ana's high pedestrian fatality rate, the rights of day laborers and crimes
committed by Mexican nationals against other Mexicans.

He already has persuaded Santa Ana police to post bilingual fliers in city jails
so Spanish-speaking inmates are informed of their rights.

And he plans to meet with Anaheim school officials over a proposal to bill
foreign countries for the cost of educating illegal immigrants.

Isidro said he wants to take his job beyond its traditional role to become a
liaison between Mexico and Orange County.

"I've expressed my desire to be a communications bridge between our country and
the local authorities," said Isidro, 37. "I'm completely convinced that by
working together we can create a better atmosphere of understanding. I want the
accomplishments and contributions of the Mexican community to be recognized."

Isidro was deputy consul in Phoenix for three years before he was selected to
replace Marisela Quijano in Orange County.

Like Quijano, Isidro is presiding over the Mexican Consulate in a climate of
political tension over immigration.

"Immigration is something that everyone in this community talks about," Isidro
said. "In Arizona, the anti-immigrant sentiment was less virulent. I think it is
important for me to underscore the positive aspects of immigration. I see that
as one of my primary tasks."

Isidro's activist style also carries risk if he steps too far outside his
traditional role. He could alienate local officials, for instance, if he
endorses candidates for local office or takes a position on tax issues, said P.
Edward Haley, a professor of international relations at Claremont McKenna
College.

"If he's really good with people and can understand with sensitivity all sides,
he could really do some good and people would be grateful," Haley said. "If it
becomes controversial, his standing will sometimes become awkward."

So far, Orange County officials have welcomed Isidro's style. In addition to
posting the bilingual fliers, he is working with Santa Ana police to show day
laborers who congregate in public how they can look for work without running
afoul of local codes.

"With this consul, we're going to work closer than with any other consul we had
before," police Sgt. Jose Vargas said. "We haven't had this kind of cooperation
before. The man seems to be intelligent, very open-minded and very open to
suggestions."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 29, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER NEWS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 128 words

* A 5-year-old Cuban boy who survived two days adrift in the Atlantic on an
inner tube has become a poster child for the anti-Castro exile cause. The U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which released Elian Gonzalez into the
custody of an uncle in Miami for "humanitarian reasons," said his fate was
uncertain.

* Preliminary results from a "customer satisfaction" initiative at the U.S.
Customs Service suggest that the majority of international travelers believe
Customs inspectors act as professionals.

* Shoppers came and spent during the weekend, giving the nation's retailers a
promising start to the critical holiday season. Among the popular buys: anything
Pokemon, DVD players, digital cameras, millennium champagne flutes and video
games.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 1, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS WIN ON DRIVER TESTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 101 words


A federal appeals court Tuesday upheld a judge's order that forced Alabama to do
something other states do routinely: Give driver's license exams in foreign
languages to accommodate immigrants. The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Atlanta said U.S. District Judge Ira DeMent was correct when he ruled that the
English-only policy discriminated against the state's estimated 13,000
non-English-speaking residents.

After DeMent's ruling in June 1998, the state Department of Public Safety began
offering the written test in several languages, while Attorney General Bill
Pryor appealed the decision.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 8, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOURCES EXPECT U.S. TO RETURN CUBAN BOY

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration is beginning preparations to return to Cuba a
6-year-old refugee whose reception in Miami has sparked dramatic demonstrations
and tugged at hearts on both sides of the Florida Straits.

The overture comes in the form of a diplomatic note to Havana being drafted late
Tuesday asking that U.S. immigration officials be allowed to interviewthe boy's
father.

"We are committed to working with the family of Elian Gonzalez, including the
father, and all relevant Cuban officials to achieve an appropriate resolution to
the case," State Department press secretary James Foley said.

If Juan Miguel Gonzalez can establish that he is in fact the father of the boy
and has a standing relationship with him, the Clinton administration will
probably support the child's return, according to well-placed government and
legal experts.

The note, which will be sent shortly to Cuban authorities, asks them to allow
U.S. immigration officials to meet with Gonzalez in his home in Cardenas, Cuba,
at the U.S. diplomatic mission in Havana or in Miami. While the United States is
prepared to grant Gonzalez a visa, it was not clear whether Cuban officials
would let him travel to Florida to claim the boy.

The U.S. move comes amid huge pressure from the government of Cuban President
Fidel Castro, who has portrayed the boy as a victim of "kidnapping" by U.S.
authorities and the Miami relatives who want to keep him. Castro has spurred
thousands of Cubans into the streets to call for Elian's return.

A political poster child

The boy, who was discovered Nov. 25 clinging to an inner tube in the waters off
Fort Lauderdale after his mother, his stepfather and 10 others perished in the
journey, has literally become a poster child for some Cuban-Americans in Miami.
Cuban exiles have plastered his image on walls and placards, claiming he is one
of Castro's youngest victims.

The Clinton administration, which has released Elian temporarily to his
great-aunt and great-uncle, asserts it will not be cowed by political pressures
from either side and is determined to act in the best interests of the child.

The U.S. diplomatic note comes in response to a formal request from the Castro
government asking that Elian be sent home. Attached to the Cuban request was a
letter from Elian's father asking for the help of the Havana government. Because
Gonzalez's remarks were not notarized, and paternity has not been documented,
U.S. authorities say they need to meet with him directly to receive his plea for
Elian.

U.S. and international law mandate the return of the child to his closest living
relative -- in this case his father -- unless it can be demonstrated that it is
in his best interests to remain in the custody of others. The Uniform Child
Custody Jurisdiction Act considers the parental relationship paramount, legal
experts and U.S. officials say.

The boy's Miami relatives could challenge the process by filing for a
restraining order in Florida courts. However, once U.S. authorities are
satisfied by Gonzalez's claim, the federal government would be compelled to
represent his side in a custody battle if the father does not travel to Florida.

"We're not addressing this as a Cuba issue," said a State Department official
who asked not to be named. "We're going by the book, as if the child was from
anywhere else. We will not be intimidated by anyone -- in the United States, or
in Cuba."

U.S. officials denied they were influenced by a Castro-imposed deadline to hand
over the boy by Tuesday evening.

"We reject any ultimata or deadlines imposed by the government of Cuba for
resolution of this case," Foley said.

No asylum for suspected hijackers

However, on a separate matter, U.S. officials stressed they would throw the full
weight of the law against a group of six Cuban migrants who are suspected of
hijacking a fishing boat and heading for Florida.

Those would-be refugees, who were being interviewed Tuesday by the FBI aboard a
U.S. cutter, will be sent back to Cuba or prosecuted in the United States; they
will not be given political asylum, a senior U.S. official said.

"We do not condone the use of violence" in fleeing Cuba, the official said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Pages 1B and 20A

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A billboard of Elian confronts the U.S. Interests Section in Havana.
[991208 FR 1A]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cuban youngsters in front of the U.S. Interests Section hold a sign saying,
"Elian, come home."
[991208 FR 20A]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rolando Betancourt and Raquel Rodriguez hold pictures of grandson Elian
Gonzalez.
[991208 FR 20A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 12, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE OFFERS A HUMAN TOUCH NEW INS PHONE LINE STREAMLINES CALLS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 582 words


Pssst! Don't tell anyone, but you can now actually talk to a human being
representing the INS. Over the phone. With little waiting. For free.

A cadre of U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials swept into San
Jose last week to announce the new number, advising citizenship applicants to
call it to report address changes -- instead of submitting the changes in
writing.

What the officials didn't emphasize, however, is that the new number is designed
to accomplish a lot more. Not only can citizenship applicants call to change
their addresses, but also other INS customers can call to get all kinds of other
information.

The reason the phone number is not widely known in California is that the INS
has been quietly phasing in the nationwide program for two years, state by
state. And the Golden State -- which has the nation's largest immigrant
population -- isn't scheduled to officially become part of the program until
later this month.

The National Customer Service Center now provides basic eligibility and "how to"
information in English and Spanish to people in 33 states and the District of
Columbia. Customers can get recorded information 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Live assistance is available from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. local time.

But the number -- (800) 375-5283 -- already works in California. It just hasn't
been publicized.

The reason for the soft launch is that "we want to be sure that the process and
technology are working -- that we're delivering the goods," INS spokeswoman
Virginia Kice said. "We've made promises in the past and have not always been
able to keep them. So we're erring on the side of caution."

A Mercury News reporter who called the toll-free number three times heard an
extensive voice mail menu on topics such as waiting times for naturalization and
green card applicants, fingerprinting requirements and INS forms. There was even
a list of authorized doctors who give medical examinations.

The first call took 36 seconds to get a human on the line. The second time:three
minutes, 32 seconds. The third time, when "5" was punched in for "recent or
upcoming changes" at the INS, a digital voice said, "Currently there is no
information on upcoming immigration programs and procedures." And the phone call
was abruptly terminated.

The first person you talk to won't be an INS employee. He or she works for a
private contractor in either Kentucky or Maryland, said Gerri Ratliff, an INS
official in Washington who is overseeing the new change-of-address system.

But if the question is more complicated than the contract employee can answer,
the phone call "will seamlessly" be transferred to an experienced INS
information officer, Ratliff said.

What won't be available is information on individual cases. But the INS plans to
eventually have such a system in place.

California is only the second state, after Florida, to get the new
address-change system.

Doug Keegan, director of the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project, said the
move was a good one.

The present INS system for changing addresses, Keegan said, is a mess. Because
INS waits can easily extend to two or three years and because the paperwork
system is so slow and cumbersome, "notices are often going to out-of-date
addresses, so people are regularly missing their interviews and appointments for
fingerprints," he said.

"In theory I applaud the INS for having this new service," Keegan said. "But
we're all crossing our fingers."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 12, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOR BRAZILIANS Y2K PROBLEMS DON'T COMPUTE MIDNIGHT: ONE MILLION WILL BE ON RIO
TIME.

BYLINE: KEVIN G. HALL, Mercury News Rio de Janeiro Bureau

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 8AA

LENGTH: 1171 words

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil


At the Federal Police headquarters in this city known for sun and fun, there is
little fear of Y2K.

Federal police handle immigration documentation for businessmen, priests and
others who will be residing temporarily in Brazil. The documentation is all done
by hand with carbon paper, stamp pads and ink-on-the-thumbs fingerprinting. If
there are computer-related problems after Jan. 1, they won't be felt in the
immigration lines.

"Our dependence on technology is not as high as in the United States. Our
systems are not that integrated," says Cassio Dreyfuss, director of research for
information technology consulting giant GartnerGroup in Brazil's business
capital of Sa(tilde)o Paulo. "We still have manual backups for many systems."

Immigration processing is but one of numerous government functions carried out
manually in Brazil. Additionally, Brazilians are long accustomed to power
outages and telephone glitches. It may prove hard to differentiate regular
service lapses from Y2K bumps.

"Unless you have a cataclysmic event, I can't see anything Y2K-related causing a
national uproar," said a U.S. government official in Brazil who has assessed
potential Y2K problems across the country.

The Y2K problem generally affects older computer hardware and software
applications that track dates. Those older applications used two digits instead
of four to mark dates. Thus, when "99" becomes "00" on Jan. 1, computer systems
that have not been updated will not be able to distinguish between 1900 and 2000
and may malfunction or stop working altogether.

When the clock strikes midnight in Brazil and ushers in the year 2000, more than
1 million people are expected to be crowded along the beach in Rio's storied
Copacabana neighborhood. Many will be dressed completely in white and tossing
flowers and fruits into the sea -- an old Afro-Brazilian ritual to appease the
sea goddess Lemanja.

President Fernando Henrique Cardoso will attend Brazil's largest year 2000
festival at Copacabana, putting city officials under a tremendous spotlight.
They do not want to have the lights go out on the president at midnight.

"The critical processes for the city's operation are at very low levels of
risk," insists Sergio Fontoura, who heads the technology division of municipal
government in Rio de Janeiro. The city has actually gone beyond testing in much
of the United States, he said, by actually moving the clock forward to Jan. 1,
2000, to test how computer systems in numerous areas of government respond.

"We are sure there will not be any type of interruption," said Fontoura.

Fireworks, not fear

Any Y2K problems may not be noticed immediately by the throngs dancing in the
sand under an expected dazzling fireworks show. And, on any given New Year's
eve, phone service is a problem as Brazilians call family across their massive
country. Placing a call on Dec. 31 and Jan. 1 will be difficult anyway, with or
without Y2K problems.

In many emerging markets, there are concerns about air traffic control and
aviation safety. But Brazil's air traffic system has been Y2K compliant from its
inception. Put in place in the 1970s by a former state-owned company, the
air-traffic computer system used four digits for dates while the rest of the
world used two.

Ironically, what many would view as a cost overrun allowed Brazilian air traffic
control systems to be Y2K compliant long before Y2K became part of the lexicon.

If predictions hold true and there are no serious problems in Brazil, it will be
a testament to tireless efforts by the central bank and Cardoso administration
to ensure that the banking system and financial sector are Y2K compliant and
have contingency plans. Climbing out of an economic slump, Brazil can ill afford
more problems in public finances.

Importantly, analysts say the key government data processing agency for pension
payments successfully tested its Y2K compliance in November, albeit later than
hoped.

"They were in pretty bad shape. They had a crash program in making themselves
compliant for Y2K," the GartnerGroup's Dreyfuss said. "To me, that was the most
serious problem that we would have had to face because it has the potential for
social revolution (if payments were not made.)"

Upbeat on readiness

Wall Street analysts for Merrill Lynch, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and others in
recent months have released upbeat reports about Brazil's ability to weather any
Y2K problems. That is much different than at the beginning of the year, when
there were fears that Brazil's currency devaluation and economic woes were
keeping cash-strapped companies from investing in computer upgrades and other
steps to avoid Y2K problems.

"In June and July, people started spending on Y2K again," said Dreyfuss.

It is significant that Brazil looks good in the eyes of analysts. As Latin
America's largest economy, major Y2K problems would likely spillover to
neighboring economies such as Argentina and Chile. Not only would direct foreign
investors such as U.S. automobile manufacturers potentially be affected, but so
would school teachers, firemen or anyone else whose pension or mutual funds
invest in Brazil and other emerging markets.

An important question mark on Y2K readiness is Brazil's strained power grid, and
whether Y2K-related problems there could take other sectors down, eventually
snowballing into chaos or even disaster.

"If you don't have energy, you can't do anything," said the U.S. official,
expressing relative confidence that there will not be large-scale service
breakdowns in the energy sector.

Volkswagen, Brazil's largest car manufacturer, is taking no chances with the
power grid. The company has been in a planning mode since April and has deployed
diesel-powered generators able to operate for 15 days to ensure that critical
functions like refrigeration and cooling tanks do not cease operations.

"You can't re-refrigerate paints and solvents," explained Carlos Boschetti,
director of information technology for Volkswagen in Sa(tilde)o Paulo state,
noting that a problem in a single tank could quickly spiral into a $150 million
loss.

Instead of celebrating the new year with family, some 1,500 members of
Volkswagen's Y2K teams in Brazil and Argentina will be monitoring events and be
ready to swing into action if needed, he said.

Although its telecommunications providers say they are Y2K compliant, Volkswagen
decided to take no chances and arranged for a private satellite network to
handle intra-company telecommunications, said Boschetti. If there are no
country-wide problems, the carmaker will begin manufacturing again on Jan. 3.

Volkswagen and other carmakers are not stockpiling parts, mostly because
plunging auto sales and reduced production have essentially created a stockpile
of sorts.

"They have sufficient stock," said Henrik Simon, commercial manager for Hamburg
Sud, a German shipping line that moves much of the auto-related traffic between
Brazil and the United States and Europe.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE WORLD
WILL THEY BE READY?

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 13, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPORT: INS JAILED HUNDREDS FOR YEARS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has jailed nearly300 foreigners for
more than three years, including some people never convicted of a crime in the
United States, the Dallas Morning News reported Sunday.

Some have been jailed for arriving with inadequate travel documents. And some of
those who have been convicted of crimes in this country -- the INS says the
majority have serious criminal histories -- are being held despite having
completed their prison sentences, the newspaper said.

Until 1996, foreigners ordered deported generally could be held for a maximum of
six months. But the law now requires the INS to indefinitely detain foreigners
who pose a flight risk or a public-safety threat until they can be removed from
the United States.

A panel of five federal judges recently ruled that the agency violates
foreigners' fundamental right to due process by holding people indefinitely.

"We can't win," said David Venturella, INS assistant commissioner for detention
and removal. "If we try to remove people and we detain who we think are serious
criminals, we get banged over the head for that. Then when we release someone
and they end up committing a crime, we get banged over the head for that. It's
very frustrating."

Some of the prisoners face what could amount to life sentences because the
United States won't release them and their homelands won't accept them, the
newspaper said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 13, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUBAN BOY TREATED TO DISNEY GETAWAY IMMIGRATION TALKS COULD HINGE ON HIS CASE

BYLINE: PHIL LONG, Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla.


For Elian Gonzalez, Sunday at Walt Disney World was the perfect escape, even as
the tiny Cuban refugee became the talk of the nation on Sunday TV news shows
from Washington to Miami.

While adults such as Secretary of State Madeleine Albright discussed Elian's
fate on the talk shows, the 6-year-old finally got some time to be a kid -- to
lose himself in the fantasy world of happiness and make-believe.

Surrounded by two dozen family members and a phalanx of security guards who were
there to ensure he wasn't hassled or kidnapped, Elian got a VIP tour of the
Magic Kingdom.

Elian smiled and shouted for joy during the daylong visit, but there were
reminders of what had happened to him only three weeks before.

He was tense at the beginning of the It's a Small World Ride boat ride, gripping
the knee of his great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, and asking: "Is the boat going to
sink?"

Within a few minutes, he was at ease and pointed and shouted, "Miralo, miralo
(look, look)," at animated characters at the amusement park.

While the child met Mickey Mouse, U.S. and Cuban negotiators geared up for key
immigration talks scheduled to begin today in Havana -- talks whose outcome
could well turn on whether Elian is sent back to Cuba.

Though U.S. diplomats are not expected to bring up Elian in the talks, Cuban
officials might.

Elian has been at the center of an international diplomatic custody fight since
he was discovered clinging to an inner tube Thanksgiving Day three miles off
Fort Lauderdale. Eleven other adults, including Elian's mother and stepfather,
drowned after their boat capsized.

"I looked back and thought to myself: 'How many people are here?' " said Orange
County Chairman Mel Martinez, a Cuban refugee who is picking up the tab for the
two-day visit.

"I can identify with him," said Martinez, clearly moved by the day's events. "I
came here alone without my family. I was lonely, scared, confused, homesick."

Earlier in the day, while Elian rode Indy cars and slapped high-fives with
Disney characters, Albright appeared on CBS's "Face the Nation" and answered
questions about him.

"First of all, we have to remember that . . . there is a little boy involved,"
Albright said. "We have sought to interview the boy's father, and there has been
no response. What we have to do is follow the legal process. What has to be
established here are the parental rights."

People on both sides of the Florida Straits claim the youngster.

Elian's mother and stepfather drowned trying to get the youngster to the United
States. It is for that reason, Elian's advocates say, that he should remain with
his U.S. relatives.

In Cuba last week, hundreds of thousands marched in protest saying the United
States is holding Elian hostage and that he must be returned to his father.

Last week, Miami attorneys filed for political asylum on Elian's behalf.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Elian Gonzalez, 6, rides a carousel with his cousin Marisleysis Gonzalez at Walt
Disney World on Sunday, as people in Cuba and the United States argue about
where he belongs.
[991213 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 14, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INMATES HOLD THREE CAPTIVE AT LOUISIANA JAIL

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: ST. MARTINVILLE, La.


Five Cuban detainees at a jail took the warden and three deputies hostage
Monday. One of the deputies was released after six hours of negotiations.

The hostages were taken in an "uprising" at the St. Martin Parish Jail that
began shortly after 4 p.m. as the detainees left a rooftop exercise area and
grabbed the guards, Sheriff Charles Fuselier said. The detainees were armed with
a homemade knife, but no injuries were reported.

"They have always tried to escape," Fuselier said. "Their big demand is that
they want to leave the country."

A SWAT team from the jail and FBI and Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials were called to the scene.

Lafayette, La., TV station KLFY said Maria Placer, the station's vice president
for news, was relaying messages between one of the inmates, Jone Ponce Landian,
and negotiators after the inmate called her at the station.

Several Louisiana jails hold Cubans for federal immigration officials, pending
deportation or other action.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 15, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TWO FIRMS SUED OVER OVERTIME PIECEWORK: ELECTRONICS FIRMS GAVE IMMIGRANTS
INADEQUATE PAY, UNSAFE WORK, NON-PROFITS SAY.

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS STAFF REPORT

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 539 words


Two San Francisco non-profit organizations filed a lawsuit Monday in U.S.
District Court against two San Jose electronics companies alleging that they
violated labor laws by not paying an employee overtime for working at piece
rates at home and by making him work in unsafe conditions.

The lawsuit was filed by Equal Rights Advocates and the Asian Law Caucus on
behalf of Kamsan Mao, a Cambodian immigrant who says that he wasn't paid
overtime wages for the homework he performed for Top Line Electronics Inc. and
that he worked in unsafe conditions.

The suit also targets Lite-On Inc., a contractor of the work performed by Top
Line, and the company for which Mao's lawyers say he ultimately performed the
homework.

Doris Ng, an attorney at Equal Rights Advocates, said the suit is the first to
address the problem of piecework by people who are not paid overtime for
homework in the electronics industry. This problem was highlighted by the
Mercury News last June in a series of articles detailing how Silicon Valleyfirms
are paying immigrant workers by the piece for electronics assembly in their
homes.

Contractors liable?

Mao's case could set a precedent, Ng said, in that it seeks to make a contractor
jointly liable for the labor practices and working conditions of workers who do
piecerate work for their subcontractors. "We hope that other individuals will
follow (Mao's) lead," she said, saying that most workers are too intimidated to
come forth with complaints and many do not know about their rights for minimum
wage and overtime compensation.

Mao had attempted to contact Ng several times about his working conditions but
was unable to because of language barriers. He asked a Mercury News reporter to
pass on his telephone number to Ng, which that reporter did.

A Lite-On official said the company had not seen the suit, but questioned
whether it could be held liable for Mao's labor conditions.

"We are not the ones who directed the work to him," said Lynn Lin, Lite-On's
controller in San Jose. "We had no control over the kind of work Top Line
allocates to their workers, or their safety measures." Top Line officials were
not available for comment.

Lite-On manufactures computer parts for several computer companies, including
Compaq.

Took work home

Mao's lawyers say that he worked regular hours on weekdays for Top Line in San
Jose for more than six years until 1998, making power supplies and repairing
motherboards. In 1994, they say, the company made him take home additional work
to do at night. They also say Mao worked as many as six hours every evening
after work and 10 hours each weekend day, in addition to his eight regular hours
during the day.

He was paid between $1 and $5 per piece for the homework, each of which took at
least an hour to complete, but never received overtime wages as labor laws
require, the lawyers said. He also developed a variety of health problems,
including asthma, which he says was caused by the work he did.

He did not receive any protective gear at work or at home, and the work
prevented him from leaving his house, they said. Mao labored in this double
shift until July 1998, when Top Line suddenly fired him, the lawsuit says.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 16, 1999 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

AN ARTIST'S POSTER BOOSTS THE CENSUS;
TO REASSURE UNDERCOUNTED ETHNIC GROUPS

BYLINE: DANA HULL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND


The U.S. Bureau of the Census unveiled a poster Wednesday that will be
distributed nationwide as part of a vigorous effort to encourage more
Asian-Americans to take part in the 2000 census.

In the last census in 1990, Asians and Pacific Islanders were undercounted by
2.3 percent nationwide, which was higher then the overall undercount rate of 1.6
percent.

"Federal and state funding depends on a correct count," said Alameda County
Supervisor Wilma Chan, who viewed the poster -- created by local artist Hung Liu
-- at the Oakland Asian Cultural Center on Wednesday. "California tends to lose
out, because traditionally our undercount is higher then elsewhere in the
country. But you know that old Chinese saying: A picture is worth a thousand
words."

The goal of Census 2000 is participation by every man, woman, and child living
in the United States. But language barriers, cultural barriers, and fear of
filling out government forms often means that millions of people -- particularly
in new and fast-growing immigrant communities -- are undercounted.

By law, the Census Bureau cannot share census answers with the IRS, the FBI,
welfare agencies, immigration officials, or any other government or
non-government agencies. But some immigrants still fear that filling out forms
can lead to recrimination or deportation.

"Inevitably, there will be another undercount," said Deepa Iyer, a staff
attorney at the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium. "It's just a
matter of convincing people that their response is confidential, that it won't
be shared with the INS. We must use the ethnic press and the ethnic media to get
the word out."

New Asian immigrants also tend to congregate in urban areas, where the
undercount is already higher because of high density apartments and
multiple-family dwellings. This means that cities like Oakland are often doubly
hit by an undercount. In 1990, the Laotian undercount in the East Bay was
thought to be as high as 30 percent.

And the nation's growing Asian community is incredibly diverse -- and thus
harder to reach. To help bring down the Asian-Pacific Islander undercount rate
this April, the census form or questionnaire will be available in Chinese,
Korean, Tagalog and Vietnamese.

"Contrary to the Hispanic community, the Asian-American community doesn't speak
one language," said Iyer. "The need for translated materials is more
significant. But the message also has to be tailored to certain communities.
Vietnamese is not the same as Thai."

The Asian-American poster is one in a series of artworks to increase awareness
about the decennial census to various ethnic communities. The other posters use
art by such masters as Carmen Lomas Garza and Jacob Lawrence. But the Asian
poster is unique because its creator is a Chinese-American painter who also
lives in Oakland.

"I created this sketch nearly 11 years ago," said Liu, who teaches in the art
department of Mills College and regularly exhibits her work at galleries in New
York. "It's the third panel in a triptych, and it tells the story of an
Asian-American family over three generations. I am very honored to have my work
be a part of the census effort."

Liu was born in mainland China in 1948 and sent to the countryside for
"re-education" during China's Cultural Revolution. After teaching at an art
academy in Beijing, she was accepted to a graduate program in the visual arts in
California. Liu has taught at Mills since 1990, and also serves on Oakland's
arts commission -- the first Asian-American to be appointed to such a post.

The census determines how many seats each state will have in the House of
Representatives, and also affects local redistricting. Community leaders use the
demographic data for everything from planning schools and building roads to
determining neighborhoods eligible for housing assistance.

"In Japanese, the word census means 'to measure the strength of a nation,"' said
Lia Bolden, a community partnership specialist with the U.S. Census Bureau. "The
census is based on hope and possibilities. Let's be sure that everyone stands up
and is counted."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
To apply for jobs with the U.S. Census 2000, call (510) 637-5040.
UNDERCOUNT
Here is a breakdown of cities in Alameda County and how much estimated revenue
they have lost per year because of 1990 Census undercount:
* Oakland -- up to $4.8 million.
* Hayward -- up to $805,000.
* Union City -- up to $300,000.
* Fremont -- up to $689,000.
* Berkeley -- up to $978,000.
* Alameda -- up to $388,000.
* Newark -- up to $169,000.
* San Leandro -- up to $280,000.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Artist Hung Liu displays the poster she created to encourage Asian-Americans who
may have reservations about taking part in the 2000 Census. It is to be
distributed nationwide.
[991216 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 21, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. EMBASSIES PLAN TO GIVE Y2K PRIORITY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 64 words


U.S. embassies abroad will be open, with extra security, at the start of the new
year, but they will not be issuing visas right away, State Department officials
said Monday.

No non-immigrant visas will be issued the first two working days of January, and
no immigrant visas will be issued the first two weeks so personnel can
concentrate on Y2K priorities, the officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Yokoyama
[991221 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 29, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TERRORISM SHADOWS CANADA CONCERNS: MANY EXTREMIST GROUPS ACTIVE THERE, EXPERTS
SAY.

BYLINE: JONATHAN S. LANDAY, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1250 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Two arrests in five days of suspects allegedly linked to international terrorism
have shattered Canada's longstanding reputation for tranquillity and raised
questions about whether the country's liberal immigration and refugee policies
have made it a haven for foreign extremists.

"The largely untold truth is that Canada and terrorism do go together," David
Harris, former chief of strategic planning for the Canadian Security
Intelligence Service, told a U.S. congressional committee earlier this year.

Since mid-1998, Canadian counterterrorism officials have been investigating
"over 50 organizational targets and about 350 individual targets," according to
a report released last July by the CSIS, Canada's chief intelligence agency.

Among terrorist organizations or fronts now or formerly "active in Canada,"
according to the report: Lebanon's Iranian-backed Hezbollah and the Palestinian
group Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, which is bent on derailing Middle
East peace talks. Also active are Algerian, Iranian, Libyan and Kurdish
extremists, Sri Lanka's rebel Tamil Tigers and the Provisional Irish Republican
Army, a militant faction of the IRA.

"With the singular exception of the United States, there are probably more
international terrorist groups active here than any other country in the world,"
CSIS Director Ward Elcock told a special Canadian Senate committee in 1998.

Canada as haven

Few have staged attacks on Canadian soil. Instead, according to Canadian
officials, foreign extremists use the country as a haven in which to raise
money, buy weapons, proselytize, distribute propaganda and hide out among large
immigrant communities.

Deadly attacks have originated in Canada, too. In 1985, Sikh extremists
demanding independence for India's Punjab state planted explosives aboard two
Air India planes in Canada. One blew up over the Atlantic Ocean, killing 329
people. The second exploded later than planned, killing two baggage handlers in
Tokyo.

"Individuals and groups in Canada have had direct or indirect association with
the (1993) World Trade Center bombing, suicide bombings in Israel,
assassinations in India, the murder of tourists in Egypt" and the
1996truck-bombing of a U.S. military base in Saudi Arabia, the CSIS report said.

Foreign terrorists also use Canada as a bridge into the United States. At least
14 terrorists have crossed the 3,500-mile border from Canada since 1995,
according to Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who chaired a House subcommittee on
immigration and claims hearing into the issue in April.

One detainee, Gazi Ibrahim Abu Mezer, a Palestinian caught crossing illegally
into Washington state twice in 1996, was twice returned to Canada. The third
time, in 1997, he was caught in Bellingham, Wash., and released on bail. Mezer
made his way to New York City, where he was arrested that July as he assembled
bombs he planned to plant on subway trains serving heavily Jewish neighborhoods.

Canadian officials quickly note that the porous border is a two-way problem.
Members of right-wing U.S. militias and foreign extremists cross into Canada
from the United States, they note. They also say the recent border arrests are
blowing the situation out of proportion.

"It concerns me that for some reason the FBI and the CIA and all your wonderful
spooks down there are saying that we have a problem and it's coming from
Canada," New Brunswick Sen. John Bryden, of Prime Minister Jean Chretien's
Liberal Party, said in a phone interview. "Your problems are yours."

Many U.S. officials praise Canada's counterterrorism efforts, particularly its
seamless cooperation in cross-border policing and investigations. Finding the
few extremists is a staggering challenge: More than 100 million law-abiding
travelers and thousands of illegal frontier-jumpers cross the border each year.

At many crossings, roving vans crammed with high-tech detection equipment screen
cargoes for, among other things, nuclear bomb materials. Sniffer dogs seek out
conventional explosives. Computer banks enable inspectors to verify and obtain
information on border crossers instantly.

In remote stretches of the world's longest non-militarized frontier, remote
infrared cameras and movement sensors are being deployed to halt illegal
immigrants.

Apprehensions now worrying Americans are, viewed in another light, successes.

On Dec. 14, Ahmed Ressam, a suspected Algerian extremist who had lived in
Montreal since 1994, was arrested by U.S. Customs agents after entering
Washington state from Canada and was charged with smuggling explosives. U.S.
officials said they have linked Ressam to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi dissident
accused of directing a global terrorism campaign against U.S. targets from his
exile in Afghanistan.

Five days later, U.S. Customs officials in Vermont apprehended Lucia Garofalo, a
Montreal resident, after sniffer dogs seemed to detect traces of explosives in
her car. No explosives were found, but federal prosecutors persuaded a judge to
keep Garofalo jailed while investigators pursued what they said were her links
to Islamic extremists in Europe.

Investigators are also looking at an Algerian man, Bouabide Chamchi, who was
arrested with her, for allegedly trying to enter the United States on a forged
French passport.

Many slip through

Despite these successful arrests, officials and experts on both sides point to
Mezer's case in conceding that more foreign extremists probably evade the
counterterrorism measures on the border than are stopped.

"When you catch a cockroach, you wonder how many others are behind the wall that
you have missed," said a senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of
anonymity.

Experts said it is not a problem unique to the U.S.-Canadian frontier.

"This is one of the fundamental issues of globalization today. What do you do
about open borders?" said Bruce Hoffman, a terrorism expert at the Rand Corp., a
private research organization in Washington. "This is the darker side of
globalization."

Proposals for tightening security on the U.S.-Canadian border inevitably ignite
concerns on both sides about the effect on trade and tourism.

The United States and Canada are each other's largest trading partners, and much
of the two-way commerce -- $330 billion in 1998 -- depends on the
timelyclearance of goods at the 125 border crossings.

Another factor affecting counterterrorism: Canada's liberal immigration and
refugee laws.

For about 20 years, Canada has annually admitted about 250,000 immigrants, many
of them highly skilled professionals. It is part of a policy to ensure the
nation's prosperity, and is consistent as well with its tradition of
multiculturalism.

'Risk behavior'

"No country that adds 1 percent per year to its population through immigration
can be entirely confident about the risks it is inviting in," said Harris, the
former CSIS official. "Our immigration policies have amounted to an
international risk behavior for some years."

Unlike in the United States, most foreigners who arrive at Canadian entry points
seeking admission as refugees are allowed in after being given a date to appear
for a hearing on their status. Many fail to show up for their hearings.

U.S. officials want Canada to review its immigration and refugee laws in the
wake of the recent arrests. But some experts said there is little chance for
changes because of opposition from politically powerful Canadian immigrant
organizations.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: BOSTON GLOBE
Vehicles wait to cross from Canada into the United States outside Derby, Vt. At
least 14 terrorists have crossed the 3,500-mile border from Canada since 1995,
officials say.
[991229 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 2, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

00 BABY! NEW LIVES FOR THE NEW YEAR SANTA CLARA COUNTY'S FIRST BORN IS SON OF
VIETNAMESE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: LISA M. KRIEGER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1092 words


Revelers were still cheering when Santa Clara County's first baby of Y2K made
his entrance, the infant of a family with a troubled past but a promising
future.

The first son of Vietnamese refugees Tam Duong and Khanh Pham of Hayward greeted
2000 with hale and hearty howls, announcing his arrival 45 seconds after
midnight in San Jose's O'Connor Hospital.

He is named Timothy, a name as American as the dream his parents hold for him.

"We will work to get the best education for him. That is the most important
thing: A good school," said his jubilant father, a machinist with Mission Tool
in Hayward. Seven years ago, the clan came to the United States with little
money or English fluency, beneficiaries of a resettlement program for families
of the South Vietnamese military. The family already has established a college
savings account for tiny Timothy and his 2-year-old sister.

In San Mateo County, the first Y2K baby also is the child of immigrants from a
war-torn nation, El Salvador. Nine-pound Manuel Angel Guevara, the son of new
U.S. citizens Mirna Madrid-Guevara and Oscar Guevara of Redwood City, arrived at
12 seconds after midnight at Kaiser-Redwood City hospital.

In Santa Cruz County, the first infant made her arrival at 1:30 a.m. -- and to
her parent's surprise, 10 days ahead of schedule. Lauren Emily Lozier, the
daughter of mechanic Charlie Lozier and floral designer Cathy Lozier, born at
Dominican Hospital, was not expected until Jan. 10.

They are among the estimated 355,500 babies that were expected to be born in the
world Saturday.

Good prognosis

Born on the cusp of the millennium in a prosperous time, members of this
generation probably will live longer and healthier lives than any before on
Earth -- perhaps living not only through the 21st century but also into the
22nd, scientists say. They also are likely to live more peaceful lives than
their parents, arriving at a time of relatively little global strife.

Perhaps it is the human fascination with round numbers, or simply the pride of
being first. Perhaps it is in tribute to the age-old symbol of the New Year -- a
diapered baby. But in birthing rooms around the globe on the eve of Jan. 1,
doctors, nurses and parents carefully watched the clock.

To be sure, the very idea of having a first baby of the New Year deserves an
asterisk. There is a special baby born in each time zone, in each country, in
each city. Even the validation of timing is open to question: A study recently
published in the British Journal of Medicine found that clocks in hospital labor
rooms ranged from 4 minutes, 12 seconds slow to 2 minutes, 2 seconds fast.

A boy born just over half an hour into the New Year in New Brunswick may be the
first Y2K baby in North America. An 8-pound, 3 3/4-ounce baby was born to Nadine
Savioe-Thibodeau and Aimie Thibodeau at 12:31 a.m. Atlantic Standard Time (8:31
p.m. PST) Saturday.

Second born

The honor of being called the first baby of 2000 went to Tupou Ta'ane Fetuani,
born in Auckland, New Zealand, at 12:10 a.m. (3:10 a.m. Friday PST). But Tupou,
the seventh child of Milika and Sifoni Fetuani, actually was the second baby
born in 2000. The first, a boy, saw the light at 12:01 a.m., in a hospital in
Auckland's western suburbs, but his parents, concerned for their baby's privacy,
asked that his name not be released.

Separated by the stroke of midnight, several sets of twins were born on opposite
sides of the new year. In Berlin, a 25-year-old Bulgarian mother gave birth to
one son four minutes before the end of 1999. A minute into New Year's Day, his
brother followed.

In Indianapolis, Jacob Wallman was born at 11:59 p.m. Friday. His sister,
Jordan, was delivered at 12:01 a.m. Saturday. When it became clear during labor
that the infants would need a Caesarean section to be delivered safely, the
parents asked the doctors to wait until around midnight.

"We got the best of both years," said Julie Wallman of Indianapolis early
Saturday, cradling her newborns in her arms. "The first baby of the millennium
and a tax deduction (for 1999)."

Similar timing was reported with twin births in Enid, Okla.; Fairfax, Va.; and
Seattle.

The last baby of 1999 in the South Bay arrived to Milpitas parents Theodore and
Karen Pohlmann. Kiley clocked in 49 minutes before midnight at Kaiser Permanente
Medical Center-Santa Clara, timing that caused her to miss the honorary title of
being the county's Y2K's No. 1 but offers the possibility of a significant break
on her parents' 1999 taxes.

In San Jose, little Timothy's birth was not anticipated until Jan. 5. But labor
pains early Friday morning convinced his parents to climb into their old car and
make the 45-minute drive to O'Connor Hospital, chosen because that was where
they had delivered their daughter.

A little stuck

Timothy's head emerged 5 seconds after midnight. With some difficulty, the rest
of him emerged 40 seconds later.

"We were mindful of the time. Every delivery room has a clock," said O'Connor
obstetrician Dr. Martin Wong. "But we were most mindful of the baby, because his
body was a little stuck; he was sideways. His heart rate was slightly elevated.
He wanted to be delivered, but it was not easy."

His arrival was celebrated by both parents, who have worked hard to make a life
here. Both his mother and father are natives of Ho Chi Minh City; both are
children of political prisoners. Their fathers had assisted the U.S. Army in
Vietnam; both ended up in jail for five years. Pham's father suffered
headinjuries in prison so traumatic that he remains mentally disabled and
bedridden 15 years later.

Shortly after arriving in the United States, they met and fell in love while
studying at an English class in Hayward. Timothy's father, 26, makes parts for
Boeing and other industries; his mother, 29, is an assembler with the
Berkeley-based Powis Parker, helping put together printers and other
instruments.

Freedom

"Growing up, we had education, a normal life. Things were open wider," said
father Duong. "But after 1975, when the Communists came, it was very bad. We
were very poor because our fathers were in prison. We could not get into the
colleges or universities, because they'd ask who your father was. Our mothers
tried to work but it was hard to find a job, because they would ask who their
husbands were," he said. "It was very bad."

Looking fondly at his new son, Duong said: "Here, he will have freedom. Here, it
is easy to work with what skills you have.

"Things are very good here."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (15);
PHOTO: Royale Sencere Patton,
Dubuque, Iowa
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Ikeem Raysean Gibbs, Loris, South Carolina
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Sema Kurt, Berlin
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Baby boy
Yamamoto, Tokyo
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Macey Lee Hertz,
Bismarck, N.D.
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Twins Fayaad,
left,
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: and Faria,
Fairfax, Va.
Born minutes apart, Faria in 1999,
Fayaad in 2000
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Leyah
Perez,
Virgin Islands
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Gabriel
Alexander Bishop,
Mesa, Ariz.
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Connor Rodgers,
St. Louis
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: Donald Paul Newvahner III, Denver
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Julie Wallman of Indianapolis holds twins Jacob, left, and Jordan. Jacob was
born at 11:59 p.m. Friday and Jordan at 12:01 a.m. Saturday EST by caesarean
section.
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rebecca Urdaneta, center, gave birth to Pete John G. Urdaneta San Nicholas, in
Guam, the first 2000 baby born on American soil.
[000102 FR 16A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Kiley Pohlmann of Milpitas, being held by her father, Tod, helped ring out 1999.
She was born at 11:11 p.m., the South Bay's last of 1999.
[000102 FR 1A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Timothy Duong, the son of Tam Duong and Khanh Pham, born 45 seconds after
midnight Saturday at O'Connor Hospital in San Jose, was Santa Clara County's
first born of 2000.
[000102 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 4, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. PREPARES TO TURN CUBAN BOY OVER TO DAD

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 160 words


Anticipating a decision by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to send
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez home to Cuba, U.S. officials in Washington have asked
the Cuban government to help arrange for the boy's father to travel to Miami to
pick him up.

American authorities hope the appearance of the father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
and his clear desire to take custody of his son, will limit a legal and
emotional backlash from Florida's large Cuban-American community, according to a
U.S. official. Elian has become a cause celebre among militant exiles opposed to
Cuba's communist government who have demanded that he be allowed to remain with
relatives in the United States.

The appeal to Cuba came after INS officials met for a second time with Gonzalez
in Havana. Cuba responded that it would take "under advisement" a U.S. request
that it expedite an exit visa for the father, according to the U.S. official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 7, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

34 AMERICANS ON MEXICO'S DEPORTATION LIST

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 94 words


Mexico's government Thursday announced that deportation proceedings had begun
against 43 foreigners, including 34 Americans, who joined New Year's
celebrations to mark the sixth anniversary of the Zapatista rebellion in
Chiapas. Immigration officials said 12 of the foreigners had been told to leave
the country. Hearings are pending in the remaining 31 cases.

Mexican immigration chief Alejandro Carrillo Castro told reporters Thursday that
none of the cases involved formal expulsion and that those deported would be
allowed to reapply for a new visa.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 8, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A PLEDGE TO COUNT IMMIGRANTS L.A. COULD GAIN CLOUT, IF CENSUS PRODUCES MORE
ACCURATE TALLY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


With a multicultural flair symbolizing Southern California's diversity, the
state's census efforts kicked off Friday in downtown Los Angeles with a pledge
to ensure immigrant communities are accurately counted.

Failure to do so during the 1990 census was partly to blame for an overall
undercount of Los Angeles County's population, said Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante,
who led a delegation that opened the Census 2000 office. As a result, the county
lost political clout and millions of dollars in aid.

" 'Todos cuentan' ('We all count')," he said. "And we are committed to counting
those who don't want to be noticed and those who cannot count themselves."

The ceremony, which included a Mexican mariachi band and Filipino-American World
War II veterans who led the Pledge of Allegiance and national anthem, coincided
with the opening of census offices in 19 counties statewide.

Representatives of groups that help immigrants said their mission is to educate
the communities so they know census data won't be used to deport those who are
undocumented.

"Over and over, we must remind recent immigrants and the undocumented that in
the history of the census there has never been a breach of confidentiality,"
said Margaret Leal Sotello, national director for the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Education Fund.

The group is spreading word in schools and through posters at churches, video
stores and markets.

Among the recruits are high school students in Monterey Park, where Asians were
undercounted during the last census, said Dinah L. Choi, a projectdirector at
the Asian Pacific Policy & Planning Council.

"We have to reach out to the kids because they'll probably be filling out the
census forms alongside their oftentimes non-English speaking parents," she said.

The census is a one-day, nationwide count of the U.S. population taken every 10
years. Included are the homeless and those who live on boats, in college dorms,
nursing homes and hospitals.

The Census Bureau also will mail questionnaires to all households. They must be
returned by April 1.

The count decides where the government will allocate millions of dollars for
education, health care, parks, road repairs, law enforcement and other services.
It also could redraw political districts to give more voting power to ethnic
populations.

Businesses in heavily Latino East Los Angeles and Pomona, along with a Starbucks
in Beverly Hills, donated food and drink to the ceremony to show their
commitment to promoting an accurate census count.

Beto Gomez, 24, came with baskets of pan dulce, sweet bread from his
family-owned and operated La Famosa Bakery.

"I've been aware of and working on the effort since last January when my dad
gave me a flier about it," he said. "I just want to make sure the job is done
right and ensure that our community gets the money it deserves."

Police said they want to assure immigrant communities that the census is not an
opportunity for them to sweep undocumented residents from the street.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A mariachi band called Mexican-American Opportunity plays at the kickoff of
census efforts in Los Angeles on Friday.
[000108 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 19, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUCHANAN BLASTS 'MASS IMMIGRATION'

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 167 words


Reform Party presidential contender Pat Buchanan on Tuesday blamed "mass
immigration" for a splintering of American culture and pledged to stem the flow
if he captures the White House.

"In too many cases, the American melting pot has been reduced to a simmer,"
Buchanan told 350 people at the Richard Nixon Library & Birthplace in Yorba
Linda, Southern California.

"If we want to assimilate new Americans -- and we have no choice if we are going
to remain one nation -- we must slow down the pace of immigration," Nixon's
former speech writer said. "America is Balkanizing like never before."

In his speech, Buchanan promised if elected to reduce new entry visas to between
250,000 and 300,000 a year. In printed copies of his address, distributed to
reporters in advance, he set the figure at 300,000.

In recent years, the United States has admitted between 700,000 and 800,000
legal, permanent residents each year, said Don Mueller, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service official.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: POLITICAL NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   February 4, 2000 Friday PENINSULA EDITION

SALVADORAN REFUGEE GETS LONGER STAY TO GIVE BIRTH

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Mercury News Staff, Writer Kaye
Ross

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Maria Orellana, a pregnant Salvadoran woman who was almost deported while her
Bosnian husband was allowed to stay, has been given permission to remain in the
United States a few more months.

Orellana, 30, who has lived in America for nine years, is to give birth next
week. She was originally ordered out of the country by Jan. 2. Now, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has given her until May 31 to return to
El Salvador.

Mark Silverman of the Immigration Legal Resource Center suggested that attitudes
left over from the Cold War are behind the unequal treatment of applications
from Central Americans. Nicaraguans, for example, have an easier time, he said.

While many Nicaraguans fled the leftist Sandinista government that the United
States tried to overthrow, Salvadorans and Guatemalans fled right-wing
governments supported by the American government.

Orellana's husband, Becir Gasi, of Bosnia, came to America in 1993 as a refugee
and became a U.S. citizen Jan. 4.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 16, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CALIFORNIA IS JUST GETTING TOO CROWDED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1124 words


BLAMING immigration is not the same as blaming immigrants.

Srilatha Rajmani (Letters, Feb. 10) does not want Gary Rose to blame immigrants
for over-crowding, water shortages, the degradation of our environment, etc.
Like him, I don't blame the immigrants for breathing too much or flushing their
toilets too much.

We are not anti-immigrant. What we want is a policy which is immigrant-friendly
but reduces the number of new immigrants.

As for the cost of housing, property developers are no more greedy than the H-1B
high tech immigrants who make tons of money. It is clearly the increased demand
for existing housing, from immigrants who make up one-third of Santa Clara
County's population, that has driven up the price of existing housing, not
developers, who cannot get enough land to build the houses they would like to.

In terms of quality of life, native Californians have not benefited from the
economic expansion.

I don't benefit from a company located here, owned by immigrants and venture
capitalists, which employs mostly immigrants. I'm just left to compete with
immigrants for space on the highway, the park, the grocery market, a house,
everything, everywhere.

I even have to compete with a non-citizen to get my letter to the editor
printed.

Stephen Yurash
Immigration Reform Network
of Silicon Valley
Proper marriage

WHILE watching an advertisement for the upcoming TV show, "Who Wants toMarry a
Multi-Millionaire?" where 50 women compete to be chosen to marry a millionaire
they've never met, I couldn't help but wonder why all the people who are so
vocally supporting Proposition 22 aren't out protesting this show.

I'm sure it doesn't promote the traditional and sacred bond between a man and a
woman. If anything is a threat to the seriousness and sanctity of marriage, it's
turning it into a game show.

It seems that unless it involves a gay couple, these right-wing activists don't
really care about what is proper in a marriage. Homophobia: Is that your final
answer?

Mark Maslowski
Ben Lomond
SO many people trying to "protect" the institution of marriage . . . from people
who want to get married!

Dan Gallagher
Boulder Creek
No hypocrisy here

THE article headlined "State businesses practice tax-policy hypocrisy" (Opinion,
Feb. 8) failed to take a big-picture look at what California businesses are
doing to strengthen our state.

The California Chamber of Commerce and California Business Roundtable, two
statewide business organizations, are guided by one overarching mission:
improving California's business climate and economy. We believe two initiatives,
one scheduled for the March 7 ballot and one currently in the
signature-gathering stage, are consistent with those views.

The overwhelming majority of California's business community supports
Proposition 26 on the March ballot, which would lower the vote requirement for
local school bonds to a simple majority. Voters would know how every penny of
bond money would be spent before voting and annual audits would ensure the money
was spent accordingly. It's estimated that California will require $28.4 billion
in new school facilities funding to meet the needs of what will soon be nearly 6
million students. Money from the general fund alone will not be sufficient to
meet the need.

Another initiative supported by many in California's business community is in
circulation and would change the law to draw a clear distinction between a tax,
which requires a higher vote threshold for passage, and a fee. Without it,
everyone could be subjected to unreasonable tax and fee increases.

A recent proposal to tax the fat content in foods to pay for the health effects
of eating too much fat is just one of many proposals that could more easily take
effect if this initiative is not successful.

Allan Zaremberg
President, California Chamber
of Commerce, Sacramento
Bill Hauck
President, California
Business Roundtable, Sacramento
Domain of the game

I was quite disappointed at Mike Cassidy's myopic take on the domain name sale
market and his negative comments about my company. He implies in his Jan. 24
Silicon Valley Dispatches column that the domain name sale market is the latest
blight on the information highway. How so?

Any company that intends to use the Internet as a business channel needs a Web
address that can be easily remembered and found. Prime Internet real estate is
scarce, and a memorable Web address can save a company millions of dollars in
annual advertising costs, as well as giving an air of prestige. "SOS" is
instantly remembered, and it does not take a multimillion-dollar advertising
campaign to get it to stick in the consumer's mind.

Domain name sales have been breaking records for a good reason. The people who
have been spending these large sums are not fools. They're positioning
themselves and their companies to do business in the next century. The name of
the game is to get traffic to your site. If they can't remember your name, or
how to spell it, they're not going to make it to your site.

Our decision to sell our domain name is good business. The domain name is an
unessential asset that has been conservatively valued in the millions, andfor a
self-funded start-up, that represents years of revenue, and will go a long way
toward growing our business. To not sell SOS.com would be foolish.

Edwin F. Marsullo Jr.
Director of sales,
Strategic Open Solutions Group
City slow on ADA

IT is with sadness and some embarrassment that I read "Renovations ready in time
for convention" (Page 1A, Feb. 11).

The reporter, Barry Witt, did a very good job of reporting on this issue. I was
embarrassed because I was a founding member of the San Jose Disability Access
Commission, and lobbied the city to create and then hire the first Americans
with Disabilities Act access coordinator -- and it appears that we have serious
problems meeting our obligations. I have sadness because it also appears we
can't even track our progress. It seems to take a giant to make us act
responsibly: in this case, the Democratic Party. The article raises questions
not only about how quickly we are moving in San Jose to comply, but, more
importantly, do we care?

Why have a Disabilities Access Commission and coordinator if they have so little
influence that even the fundamentals such as ramp access and restrooms are not
up to code in so visible a place as our Convention Center?

How was it possible that when the Democratic Party placed pressure on the city
it was able to quickly come up with $380,000, but on an annual basis it fails to
properly fund access improvements?

Martin B. Schulter
Director, Disability Resource Center
San Jose State University

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 18, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CRITICS OF INS WILL GET HEARING LOFGREN TO CONDUCT MEETING IN SAN JOSE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 676 words


A congressional panel will hold a hearing in San Jose next week to listen to
firsthand accounts of lost files and fingerprints and long waits at local INS
offices that have created hardship for thousands of immigrants, including
hundreds of Silicon Valley high-tech workers.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, said that in recent months, she and other members
of Northern California's political delegation have been flooded with calls from
constituents recounting a litany of problems with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. About 85 percent of all the calls she receives daily at
both her Washington, D.C. and San Jose offices are complaints about the INS,
Lofgren said.

"We believe that a field hearing in San Jose will foster a much-needed dialogue
between those aggrieved and the INS," Lofgren said. "People ought to be able go
to a government agency and get the service they need without having to appeal
for intervention by their congressional representatives. There's something wrong
there."

Lofgren will lead the local congressional hearing, which starts at 10 a.m. on
Feb. 25 at the Isaac Newton Center Auditorium, and a top INS official is
expected to address the panel. But while recent meetings with INS officials have
been encouraging, she said, they have not helped abate the problems.

"I think it's time the INS look at its staffing and structure," said Sister
Marilyn Lacey, director of immigration, refugee and employment services at
Catholic Charities of San Jose, a non-profit group that helps low-income
immigrant families with their citizenship and green card applications.

"The San Jose office remains a sub-office of San Francisco. As long as you're a
sub, in somebody's mind you're not as important . . . I think the hearing brings
some visibility to that problem," Lacey said.

Lacey has been invited to testify at the hearing.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the INS district office in San Francisco, said
officials will release next week "some encouraging statistics that show that we
are improving." She did not specify what figures will be presented.

Rummery said the INS is working to act promptly on all complaints.

In the last month, for instance, Rummery said the agency appointed members of a
"management team" that will look at how to provide faster and improved service,
she said.

On March 28 in San Jose, the INS will have a public forum at which people can
check on the status of their citizenship or green card applications, Rummery
said.

"The idea is to answer not just people's general questions but to explain how
things work and what to expect," she said.

Lacey and other immigrant advocates concede that the INS "has made some strides
in trying to be customer friendly," but those improvements have made little or
no difference for those waiting to become American citizens or legal residents.

High-tech workers who arrived initially on H-1B work visas are being denied
promotions and mortgages in some cases because of long delays in processing
their permanent residency status. The H-1B visa program allows highly skilled
foreigners to work here for up to six years. After five years in the country,
they are allowed to apply to become "permanent residents" or obtain green cards.

Some families have been forced to separate because parents have had to return to
their native countries while waiting for their H-1B visas to be converted to
green cards. One Santa Clara man, who is expected to testify at the hearing, has
been diagnosed with terminal cancer and is waiting to become naturalized so he
can petition for his children who are living abroad.

"I think there's still a major problem," said Richard Konda, executive director
of Asian Law Alliance, a local non-profit legal services group.

Konda said more recent applicants are being processed through the system first,
while those who applied a year or two ago are left to wait even longer.

"We tell our clients that the INS is doing its best and we tell them we're
keeping the pressure on," Konda said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For information on the congressional hearing, call Rep. Zoe Lofgren's district
office in San Jose at (408) 271-8700.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Lofgren
[000218 LO 4B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 19, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS REFUSES FATHER'S REQUEST TO MOVE ELIAN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 100 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service rejected Friday a request from the
father of 6-year-old shipwreck survivor Elian Gonzalez to move him to the home
of another Miami relative who wants him sent back to Cuba.

The father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, had asked that the INS remove Elian, who has
been caught in an international custody tug of war, from the home in Miami of
his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, who is fighting to keep him in the United
States. The father wanted Elian moved to the residence of another great-uncle in
Miami, Manolo Gonzalez, who supports the boy's return to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Juan Miguel
Gonzalez
[000219 FR 22A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 21, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DON'T BLAME IMMIGRANTS FOR PROBLEMS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1089 words


I take exception to Stephen Yurash blaming immigrants for rising housing prices
and a reduced "quality of life" in Santa Clara County (Letters, Feb. 16).

Not only is the substantial growth in this county not due solely to immigration,
but many immigrants have been sought to fill economic demand -- and for good
reason.

Our high tech industries have become increasingly dependent on engineers from
foreign countries. We are simply not graduating enough qualified engineers. The
Mercury News often has articles about politicians seeking to admit more
foreign-born engineers into this country to meet the burgeoning demand.

And, if Mr. Yurash would like to limit the number of less-educated immigrants,
he and his Immigration Reform Network must address such hypocrisy as that
exhibited by former governor Pete Wilson when he opened the gates of California
to thousands of immigrant agricultural workers to satisfy the needs of his
agri-business buddies and then later tried to deprive them of hospital care and
an education.

In other words, Mr. Yurash, you can't have it both ways. If our county needs
immigrants for both high-tech and service positions that it can't adequately
fill from among its residents, we can't turn around and blame those immigrants
for contributing to the growth that has changed living conditions in this
county.

Peter Nowell
Scotts Valley
Bit of history

HOWARD Kleinberg's column regarding the military in Haiti (Opinion, Feb. 16)
stated that neither Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson nor Abraham
Lincoln ever wore a military uniform.

During the Black Hawk War in 1832, Abraham Lincoln was in the military
andelected captain. This is part of Illinois history.
Robert E. Harms
Sunnyvale
Worn, not trashed

I eagerly began to read Mike Cassidy's Silicon Valley Dispatches ("Building a
business from the hardwood floors up," page 1E, Feb. 15), as I immediately
recognized the room featured in the picture.

How wonderful, I thought, the folks that bought the Family Services building on
Second and Empire have renovated it and done a beautiful job. My happiness,
however, lasted only a few paragraphs into the article. Mr. Cassidy's claim that
the building had been trashed, implying deliberate destruction, is
mean-spirited. I know the house and it was in disrepair, but only because every
penny that came into that worthy agency went back into its programs to end
substance abuse, give assistance to the frail and elderly and run a 24-hour
crisis intervention program for teens. These programs, and many more, are
designed to aid and preserve families in our area.

Client charges were, of necessity, minimal, and county contracts and United Way
funds weren't enough to cover program expenses, let alone restore or even
properly maintain, an aging building.

I wish the Posts success in their venture and I hope that when they do achieve
success they will give something back to the community as a corporate sponsor of
a deserving non-profit. I know Family Services, in its association with the
Adult and Child Guidance Center, would appreciate their support.

Nancy Scharlin
Former board member,
Family Service Association
Library on ballot

WHEN I first moved to Cupertino I was delighted to find that in a storefront on
(now) De Anza Boulevard there was a small but friendly and useful library. As
the city grew, the storefront became inadequate and we were fortunate to be able
to build the current library. It was a dream come true.

Now, when I visit the library I find it overcrowded with students, community
members and small children -- as many as 12,000 per year for story time alone.
What a success it is for our community! However, this success means that there
are often not enough computers to use the online catalog, not enough working
space, and no quiet reading area.

As an educator in Santa Clara Valley and as a parent, I have seen first hand
what the availability of an excellent library can do to enhance our children's
learning. Our community must support one of its highest missions, the nurturing
of its citizens, though the provision of a top quality library. We deserve
nothing less.

On March 7, vote Yes on Measure A.

Mary Maxwell
Cupertino
PATRICK Rogers, president of the Cupertino Library Foundation, has disputed some
of the facts in my ballot arguments against Measure A (Letters, Feb. 1). I urged
voting against this advisory measure, because it advocates building a new
library, rather than enlarging the old one.

Implicit, but not included, in the $22 million cost figure of the measure is
that the old library will be used for some unspecified purpose, such as a teen
center or convention facility. Neither of these has been identified as needed by
the city, and either of these would require modifying the building and staffing
it at an unknown cost.

Mr. Rogers erred in stating that state law would require bringing the old
library building up to present seismic safety standards. Such work is required
only if the building is modified structurally, as in conversion to a teen center
or convention hall, but not to attach an annex to it. Nor is there a need to
relocate or disrupt the present library during construction of the annex as he
alleges.

Of the comparable cities in our vicinity, Cupertino carries the heaviest debt
burden. We need to be frugal.

When I was mayor during the last recession, the library hours had to be
drastically curtailed because the state reduced its share of the funding.Would
it not be ironic if during the next recession we had to again drastically reduce
library hours, just so that we can make the debt service payment on our
beautiful new library?

Finally, enlarging the current library was preferred by the citizens of
Cupertino in a ratio of 81 percent to 59 percent vs. building a new one in a
city-sponsored opinion poll in October.

Nick Szabo
Former mayor of Cupertino
Gambling draws crime

IN the article about legalizing Indian casinos (Page 1A, Feb. 17), there is a
key statement: "a number of Las Vegas-based casino operators are already seeking
partnerships with the tribes."

The gangster element is prominent in Nevada gambling establishments as well as
anywhere else that gambling, prostitution, etc., is conducted on a level high
enough to look profitable. It would appear that California is beginning to look
like the land of promise to the Mob.

A sure way to invite the Mafia to California is to legalize gambling.

Charles Greenmun
Sunnyvale

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 22, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO, U.S. CLOSER THAN EVER A DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP

BYLINE: GREGORY F. TREVERTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 798 words


MEXICO is becoming a domestic matter for the United States, and especially
California.

The agenda for the next decade -- trade, investment and the treatment of
investors, labor standards, the environment, immigration, narcotics, border
issues and human rights -- respects no tidy distinction between foreign and
domestic, between at home and abroad.

This is the headline of a unique report, Mexico Transforming, produced by 60
Mexicans and Americans, organized by the Pacific Council on International
Policy, an international leadership forum rooted in the concerns of the North
American West.

Doing business with Mexico will require understanding the profound changes on
which the country has embarked but is far from having completed. It is trying,
all at once, to open its economy, and to transform its politics to make them
less authoritarian, less centralized and less dominated by the president.

The first challenge for Americans is dealing with a constrained Mexican
presidency, a more plural Mexican Congress, and a continuing decentralization of
power and decision-making to the state and local levels of government.

Mexican presidents used to be elected autocrats. The control of the ruling
party, the Revolutionary Institutional Party (PRI), was absolute, and the
dominance of the central government almost total.

No more, and Americans, both public and private, will have to cope with the loss
of predictability provided by Mexican presidents who completely dominated their
system. Americans will also have to take the Mexican Congress seriously, and to
treat Mexico's opposition parties as relevant actors.

Second, a plethora of new political actors are becoming vocal participants in
the bilateral connection.

The Mexican media, for instance, used to be lap dogs of the PRI, but are now
becoming more independent, investigative, critical and consumer-oriented.
Political demands used to have to be channeled through the PRI, but in the last
two decades a number of non-governmental organizations have grown up beyond the
control of the party.

While the traditional Mexican "rules of silence" have given way to open
criticism at home, Mexicans will continue to be sensitive to what they perceive
as U.S. intervention in domestic affairs.

Surely, the interests of U.S. citizens cannot let them remain silent: witness
international activism in Chiapas. But Mexican nationalism still remains
sensitive to U.S. pressure.

How U.S. citizens speak and act while recognizing Mexican concerns for
sovereignty, and how Mexicans redefine what is "meddling" -- these remain open
questions.

Third, in the economic realm, what is striking is that, in the context of the
North American Free Trade Agreement, Mexico's economic opening has made it more,
not less, dependent on the United States.

For Mexico, "globalization" has meant "Americanization." Yet Mexico's per capita
GNP is still only about a seventh that of the United States.

Americans will have to deal next with "dollarizing" -- Mexico adopting the
dollar in some form as its currency.

"Dollarizing" will be on the Mexican agenda once its presidential elections this
summer are concluded. The speed of the debate over dollarizing is somewhat
surprising given Mexico's traditional pride, but for millions of Mexicans with
connections to the United States, dollarization is already a fact of life.

Fourth, and hardest, are the social issues that also respect no border,
migration and drugs in particular.

Fair weather economically in the United States today offers a window of
opportunity for redefining immigration in a less confrontational way.

In the booming American economy, firms in the service and agricultural sectors
face labor shortages. From the Mexican perspective, legal migrants could benefit
from more secure and better supervised working conditions, through, for example,
a new system of temporary U.S. visas.

What is required is a more detailed, binational dialogue on immigration,
involving both governments at all levels, and private citizens.

In embracing NAFTA, both countries, but especially Mexico, made bets of historic
proportions.

Mexico decided that since it was condemned to be, in the Mexican saying, so far
from God but so close to the United States, it would seek the benefits of real
partnership, not hold onto a reserved autonomy. The United States decided, less
explicitly and perhaps less consciously, that more direct engagement with Mexico
would be both an economic boon and, in the long run, the best way to manage the
pressures for Mexican migration northward.

Ultimately the success of Mexico and the United States at managing and enhancing
their shared destiny will depend on the quality of the understanding between the
two societies.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Gregory F. Treverton is acting president and director of studies of the Pacific
Council on International Policy, the western partner of the Council on Foreign
Relations.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARBARA CUMMINGS

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 24, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE GREEN CARD BLUES INS DELAYS CREATE HARDSHIPS FOR FAMILIES AND LEAVE
HIGH-TECH JOBS UNFILLED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 500 words


REFORMING the Immigration and Naturalization Service can be as exasperating as
trying to flatten a rug. Smooth out a lump in one end, and another pops up on
the other side.

Over the past two years, the INS made cutting the time it took for immigrants to
become U.S. citizens its main focus. It more than halved the wait from 28 months
to a year, it said. But as the delays over naturalization shrank, the lag time
for getting green cards -- permanent residency for non-citizens -- grew. It's
now taking nearly three years to get an interview for a green card through the
San Jose office, more than a year longer than in the summer of 1998.

Those delays have created hardship for family members and uncertainty for
high-tech workers. Some have been forced to leave the country, with their
residency applications pending, when their temporary work visas expired. The
delays also remain a headache for Silicon Valley companies that are trying
tofind skilled workers for unfilled jobs.

On Friday, U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren of San Jose and Sam Farr of Monterey will hold
a hearing in San Jose to vent gripes about the INS's Northern California
operations. You can expect the speakers -- immigration activists, social workers
and high-tech employers -- to cite a familiar litany: long lines, lost
paperwork, rudeness, bureaucratic hassles, green card holdups.

Farr and Lofgren are clearly frustrated with the pace of progress at the INS.

The agency has added inspectors to more promptly handle citizenship
applications. And, in what could become a national model, a local advisory
committee has been working with the INS in San Jose to recommend ways to make
the agency more responsive and more accessible.

But changes have been slow, and Lofgren reports that her office continues to be
deluged with complaints about the INS. A shortage of personnel to handle an
increasing workload had been a source of the delays. But there also have been
reports of mismanagement and frequent computer foul-ups.

Many of the applicants for green cards in San Jose are high-tech engineers and
software programmers from India and China holding H-1 B visas, which are
six-year work permits. They're caught in a double bind. By law, the INS can
award a maximum of 140,000 employment-based green cards, with no more than 9,800
to immigrants from any one country. Because of delays, only 40,000 cards were
issued in 1999; the rest went unclaimed. Many Chinese and Indian workers are
finding themselves in a perpetual queue because the INS hits the annual ceiling
for their countries.

By eliminating the delays, and by raising or eliminating the per-nation caps,
Congress would make life easier for many foreign workers and help their
employers without increasing the green-card limit or doubling the H-1 B program,
as some in Congress have proposed.

Fixing the INS's internal operations should be a prerequisite to expanding a
visa program. Friday's hearing will add voices to those demanding reforms.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FOLLOW-UP: The congressional hearing will be at 10 a.m. Friday at the
Santa Clara County government center at 70 W. Hedding St. in San Jose.EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: D.B. JOHNSON

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 26, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VALLEY TO INS: TIME FOR AN UPGRADE HIGH-TECH ADVICE ABOUNDS AT HEARING ON
AGENCY'S TROUBLES

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 978 words


High technology -- a Web-based data system and new software programs that manage
and track cases -- could help the INS provide better service in Northern
California, advocates and Silicon Valley high-tech executives said Friday during
a congressional hearing in San Jose.

Although the agency is installing new computers, keeping electronic files of
fingerprints and adding workers, the changes are at least a year or two away for
the problem-plagued Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in San Jose
and San Francisco.

That's disappointing news to thousands of immigrants in Santa Clara County and
elsewhere in Northern California -- some of whom were among about 200 attending
Friday's hearing. Among those affected:

* Linus Torvalds, the Linux operating system founder who can't get a driver's
license because he doesn't have a green card.

* Jacob Bromley, an ex-British soldier who wants citizenship for his wife,
Yetta, his long-lost wartime sweetheart.

* Major Silicon Valley industries losing millions in relocation costs because of
INS delays in processing green cards for workers on temporary visas.

An exasperated Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who led the half-day congressional
hearing on improving services at local INS offices, wondered aloud why the
agency seems so far behind the times:

"In an era when FedEx can tell you online precisely where your package is, why
can't the INS office tell you anything about the status of an application
pending with INS for years?" she asked. "In an era when you can secure ahome
loan and obligate yourself on the World Wide Web for hundreds of thousands of
dollars without standing in line, why is it that the best you can do at an INS
Web site is to download some form so you can fill it out by hand, stand in line
in the rain and wait half a decade for an answer?"

Immigrants waiting to become naturalized citizens and high-tech workers with
H-1B visas waiting for green cards have been complaining for years about lost
files, rude and abusive treatment, lost fingerprints, standing hours in line and
waiting years to hear about their cases from the INS offices in San Jose and San
Francisco.

Wide-ranging complaints

Immigrants and advocates recounted litanies of INS problems during Friday's
hearing.

George Windsor Jones of San Jose told the panel how he waited for nearly two
years to hear about the status of his wife's application for permanent
residency.

A few days ago, he received an INS notice referring him to a telephone number
that's no longer in service.

John Barey of Alameda County, a political refugee from Afghanistan, told the
panel how his father, brother and another relative were killed under the Taliban
regime in the past two years while waiting for the INS to issue permission for
them to immigrate to the United States.

"I suspect most of the INS problems stem from bureaucracy," said Torvalds, the
Finnish creator of Linux. "They shuffle paper all the time. It's obvious the INS
will never provide good service as long as it's pushing paper around."

Torvalds and other high-technology company executives told the panel that some
of the more immediate problems at the INS could be easily fixed by technology
that is readily available.

For instance, a Web-based data system is available at TekEdge in Santa Clara to
H-1B workers who want to find out about the status of their cases, said Sunil
Vatave, general counsel for the company.

A similar in-house system is available to clients of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, said Warren Leiden, a member of the Washington, D.C.-based
group.

"What can we do to help the INS get into the 21st century?" Lofgren asked.

Answers are well within reach, said Sunil, who added that it "took us all of two
weeks" to get the TekEdge Web-based system running.

The INS offices in San Francisco and San Jose have a combined backlog of almost
100,000 so-called "status adjudication" cases -- work visas waiting conversion
to green cards, and permanent residents waiting to become citizens.

Lofgren and other congressional delegates slammed the INS on Friday for failing
to fix the problems, even after many meetings. Rep. Lynn Woolsey, D-Santa Rosa,
called the INS "the agency from hell," drawing snickers and laughter from the
audience.

Problems recognized

William Yates, INS deputy executive associate commissioner, acknowledged the
problems and blamed them on a number of factors: the delay in the 2000 fiscal
budget; shifting the agency's focus from citizenship to so-called "status
adjustment," or processing of green cards; and more delays caused by the change
to electronic fingerprinting.

"You've told us we have to be more efficient and we realize that," Yates said.

Lofgren and the other members of Congress told Yates the inefficiencies at his
agency have caused hardships for people, many of them, like Torvalds, key
players in Silicon Valley's high-tech industry.

One Intel Corp. engineer will soon have to return to Malaysia because his H-1B
visa is expiring while INS is processing his green card. It's not only a
hardship for him and his family: Intel will spend $200,000 to relocate him
abroad for three months, said Deb Kessler, immigration specialist for Intel.

At Sun Microsystems in San Jose, 10 workers on temporary work visas will lose
their jobs because the INS didn't process their green cards quicklyenough, and
this year about 100 more face the same prospect, said Heidi Wilson, the
company's corporate immigrant manager.

Sun has an office in Bangalore, India, which complicates things for many workers
with pending green cards who are unable to travel for business, Wilson said.

"When you're talking about the head engineer of having to leave for three
months, in high technology, that's an eternity," said Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-San
Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Yetta Bromley's husband, Jacob Bromley, told of the British couple's INS woes.
[000226 FR 1A]
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Linux creator Linus Torvalds of Finland discusses INS problems with Rep. Zoe
Lofgren after Friday's hearing in San Jose.
[000226 FR 14A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 26, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

QUOTE OF THE DAY

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Mercury News Staff, Writer Kaye
Ross

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 51 words

'In an era when FedEX can tell you online precisely where your package is, why
can't the INS office tell you anything about the status of an application
pending with INS for years?'
-- U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, urging that services at Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices be improved.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 29, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AGENTS CLAIM POLICE ABUSE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Two federal immigration agents who claim Los Angeles police officers roughed
them up for no reason while they were working undercover in the Rampart area
sued the Los Angeles Police Department on Monday for alleged violations of their
constitutional rights.

Shawn Butler, 29, and Ezequiel Garcia, 34, special agents with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, claim 10 unidentified officers threatened and abused
them even though they were on an INS assignment and repeatedly showed police
their INS badges. Butler is black and Garcia is Latino.

The officers involved were Rampart patrol officers, not members of the station's
anti-gang unit embroiled in a corruption investigation. There was no comment
from police.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 1, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS OPERATING SYSTEM EVEN CONFOUNDS LINUS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 202 words


SINCE 1997, when he came to America on a temporary work visa, Linus Torvalds has
created thousands of lines of software code. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service has created lines, too. Long ones.

But at least it can be said that the INS doesn't play favorites. It's equally
unresponsive to the rich and poor, the famous and the unknown.

Torvalds is the 30-year-old Finnish software programmer who created Linux, an
operating system that one day may rival Windows. He's been waiting nearly three
years for a green card, the permanent residency status.

Like tens of thousands of others, Torvalds has found the wait unsettling and
unwelcoming. It has restricted his ability to visit his family abroad and get a
regular driver's license. Others in INS limbo can't obtain a mortgage or change
jobs.

Torvalds can seek a special status as an "outstanding scientist." Other foreign
workers face deportation if they can't get a green card when their temporary
visas expire.

As he told a congressional hearing on Friday, "I can only say that I'm happy I'm
considered a sure case, because based on my experience with the INS, I'd really
hate to be in a category that is considered problematic."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: QUICK HITS

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 3, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASTACIO FACING DEPORTATION FIGHT GWYNN GIVEN $2 MILLION SIGNING BONUS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 557 words


Colorado pitcher Pedro Astacio faces deportation by the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service because of his guilty plea to charges he assaulted his
estranged wife.

Astacio, from the Dominican Republic, received a two-year deferred judgment Jan.
28, but federal law treats that the same as a conviction. The INS told KCNC-TV
in Denver on Thursday that its case began after the plea.

Under federal law, immigrants convicted of domestic violence are subject to
deportation.

"As the facts stand now, the government is saying that Mr. Astacio is deportable
in virtue of the domestic violence offense, and we will pursue that," INS
District Director Joe Greene told the TV station.

"I live in Colorado, too, and I root for the Rockies like everybody else. But
the law is very clear on this. These actions were brought about by the
individual that we are citing here, and we have to go forward.

"He could lose his legal residence in the United States, and he could be
deported."

Astacio, working out at the Rockies' training camp in Tucson, said he couldn't
clarify anything.

"Right now, we don't have any comment about the situation. We're going to find
out what is going on," he said.

Harvey Steinberg, Astacio's lawyer, said he was working on the situation.

Astacio, 30, led the Rockies in virtually every pitching category last season.
He pleaded guilty in January to a misdemeanor charge of third-degree assault
involving domestic violence. He was ordered to undergo domestic violence
counseling and treatment.

Padres

Tony Gwynn got a $2 million signing bonus from the San Diego Padres in exchange
for a one-year option on his contract.

Gwynn, who has spent his entire 19-year career with San Diego, gets the signing
bonus added to his $4.3 million salary for this season.

The Padres hold a $6 million option for 2001 that kicks in if Gwynn makes 502
plate appearances this season. If he falls short and the club declines the
option, Gwynn will receive a $2 million buyout.

Dodgers

Negotiations between the Los Angeles Dodgers and third baseman Adrian Beltre
were put on hold, with both sides expressing hope that a three-year contract can
be worked out.

"We've got big steps to take before it happens," said Beltre's agent, Scott
Boras. "If we don't get this thing done by the 10th, I don't think we'll get it
done, I really don't."

The Dodgers signed catcher Angel Pena to a one-year deal.

Braves

It might have been the best groundout of Andres Galarraga's life.

The Big Cat played his first game since beating cancer, starting at first base
and batting fifth for the Atlanta Braves in an exhibition against the University
of Georgia in Lake Buena Vista, Fla.

Galarraga, who sat out all of last season while being treated for his disease,
received a standing ovation when he came to bat in the second inning.

He grounded sharply to third baseman Andy Neufeld, who made a nice backhanded
stop and threw out the runner.

The Big Cat left the game after his lone at-bat.

A place to play

Former Giant Jeffrey Leonard, currently general manager/manager of the Sonoma
County Crushers of the independent Western Baseball League, said if former
teammate Kevin Mitchell can't land a job with a major league team, he would be
welcome to join the Crushers, who begin play May 3.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NOTEBOOK

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Atlanta's Andres Galarraga makes his first plate appearance in more than a year
after recovering from cancer.
[000303 SP 3D]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 3, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TEST SCAM RESULTS IN CONVICTION CHEATING INVOLVED CITIZENSHIP EXAMS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A Citrus Heights man accused of taking part in a nationwide scheme to cheat on
citizenship tests has been convicted in federal court in Sacramento.

Chantone Nguyen, also known as Don Nguyen, was found guilty this week of
plotting with others to falsify naturalization test results, enabling about
4,400 immigrants to obtain U.S. citizenship improperly.

Twenty people were charged two years ago, accused of collecting about $880,000
from immigrants for a guarantee of passing grades on the exams. Nguyen was
charged with conspiracy and procurement of false documents.

Nguyen could face 30 months in prison when he is sentenced May 11, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Elena Duarte said.

The charges, the first of their kind in the nation, stemmed from a crackdown by
the U.S. Department of Justice on private testers who were abusing the system.

Nguyen, 52, operated International Naturalization Languages and was authorized
by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to give the tests.

The jury found that Nguyen conspired with others to alter test results so
citizenship applicants appeared to have sufficient command of the English
language, American history and U.S. government. The jury also found that Nguyen
sometimes supplied applicants with the answers to test questions.

Zarmina Nayabkhil, 47, and her daughter, Salma Nayabkhil, 31, both of Roseville,
are awaiting trial.

Charges against four of the 20 defendants were dismissed. One remaining
defendant is a fugitive, and 12 have pleaded guilty.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 9, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FINGERPRINT PLAN WOULD MERGE FILES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Responding to anger about the release of a suspected "railroad killer" by
immigration agents, the Justice Department outlined a five-year plan costing
more than $200 million to merge the fingerprint files of the FBI and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Congress ordered the department to devise such a plan when it enacted this
year's budget. It was reacting to the case of a Mexican drifter, Angel Maturino
Resendiz, also known as Rafael Resendez-Ramirez.

Last June 2, he was picked up by Border Patrol agents for illegal entry into the
United States and sent back to Mexico. Agents said they were unaware he was
wanted by Houston police and the FBI for questioning in connection with several
murders along rail lines.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 10, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELIAN RELATIVES, U.S. ARGUE CASE IN MIAMI COURT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 92 words


With flag-waving demonstrators tying up traffic outside, a federal judge in
Miami heard arguments Thursday on whether he had the right to second-guess the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's decision to send 6-year-old Elian
Gonzalez back to Cuba.

Elian's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez asked U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore
to order the INS to hold a political-asylum hearing for Elian. The U.S.
government, however, asked the judge to dismiss the case. After the three-hour
hearing, the judge gave no indication of when he might rule.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Elian Gonzalez
[000310 FR 8A]
PHOTO: Lazaro Gonzalez
[000310 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 17, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FILES TO STAY AT ARCHIVE IN BAY AREA

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Mercury News Staff, Writer Kaye
Ross

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: SAN BRUNO


Genealogists and Chinese-American community leaders are hailing a decision that
will keep historic immigration files in San Bruno.

The files contain maps of villages in China, family genealogies of Jews who made
their way to the United States in the 1940s, original wedding photographs from
1920s Japan and transcripts of interrogations of immigrants at Angel Island.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service records were destined to be shipped
to Missouri for storage before Rep. Tom Lantos, D-San Mateo, intervened last
month.

Instead, the files will remain in the National Archives and Records
Administration facility in San Bruno. Keeping these immigration records in the
Bay Area was a high priority for Lantos because many of them deal with local
Chinese-American families.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 31, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE OTHER CUSTODY BATTLE

BYLINE: ROQUA MONTEZ IV column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 417 words


AS the tug of war over one little Cuban boy holds a nation agog, a far more
egregious custody battle is being cast to the periphery.

In this case, the welfare of thousands of families -- particularly Haitians --
teeters on the cusp of uncertainty.

Some 3,000 Haitian immigrants under threat of deportation face a wretched
decision: departing without their American-born children, who, because they were
born here, are citizens by birthright; or dragging them to a land of grinding
poverty and political upheaval.

In 1997 Congress granted amnesty to Cubans and Nicaraguans who came to the
United States before December 1995, even if they had entered the country
illegally.

Most were granted political refugee status. Haitians, also fleeing political
unrest, were denied the same status because Congress said they left their
country to avoid poverty.

Officials estimate nearly 10,000 Haitian immigrants in the United States face
deportation. Of those, roughly 3,000 have children who were born in this
country. These people can be deported at any time, thrusting the fate of their
families into doubt.

Leaving the children in the states is tantamount to abandonment. But a far more
perilous existence awaits in Haiti, the poorest spot in the Western Hemisphere.

Poverty, malnutrition and disease contribute to one of the highest child
mortality rates in the world. One in ten Haitian children do not live past the
age of five, victims of serious diseases like tuberculosis, typhoid, and
diphtheria. Thousands die each year from malnutrition, especially
diarrhea-induced dehydration, the second leading cause of death.

Said Elwin Griffith, a law professor and the director of the Caribbean Law
Institute at Florida State University: "These people are stuck, and they can't
do a thing about it."

This is an impossible choice. One that no parent should ever have to anguish
over.

A newer, enlightened immigration policy that erases the double standard for
certain refugees is needed. Clearly, U.S. immigration laws, often controversial
and complex, are in great need of reform when they force parents to make a
damning decision affecting their children.

When 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez washed ashore back in November, he became the
unwitting cute-faced poster boy for international custody battles. But his was
always an open-and-shut shut case: The boy belonged with his father in Cuba.

Let's send Elian to his dad posthaste. The real custody debate awaits in our own
home.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Roqua Montez IV is a Mercury News editorial writer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: DON WRIGHT - PALM BEACH POST

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 11, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DENNY'S SETTLES IN DISPUTE ON HIRING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Denny's Inc. agreed Monday to retrain its restaurant managers nationwide to
resolve allegations it requested excessive documentation from immigrants
applying for work, the Justice Department said.

The company also agreed to pay $89,400 in civil penalties, the department said.

The managers of all 1,700 company-owned Denny's restaurants will be trained how
to verify that immigrants are eligible to work under the Immigration and Reform
and Control Act of 1986.

John Trasvina, Justice's special counsel for immigration-related unfair
employment practices, praised the company's "cooperative spirit in resolving the
matter."

"Even though the investigation focused solely on San Diego-area restaurants,
Denny's is taking steps to ensure that managers at every one of its
company-owned restaurants across the country do not make the same mistake,"
Trasvina said.

Trasvina's office conducted an 18-month investigation of allegations that San
Diego Denny's restaurants requested specific documents from newly hired
non-citizen workers to prove they could legally work in this country.

The law prohibits employers from demanding specific identification documents and
allows new employees to choose which of several documents to produce to
establish work eligibility.

"Today's settlement protects this right for all workers," Trasvina said.

The 1986 act prohibits job discrimination based on national origin and
citizenship status.

In 1994, Denny's settled a $46 million discrimination suit filed by black Secret
Service agents who said they were denied service at a restaurant. The complaints
were among a series of discrimination claims by black customers at Denny's
restaurants around the nation.

As part of an agreement with the Justice Department, the chain agreed toretrain
employees in requirements of federal civil rights law covering public
accommodations, feature minorities in its ads and hire an outside lawyer to
monitor compliance.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                April 12, 2000 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

MORE CHARGES POSSIBLE IN LABOR, SEX CASE

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND


A federal judge on Tuesday deferred any action in the case of Berkeley landlord
Lakireddy Bali Reddy and his son for 60 days, as prosecutors push to build a
broader set of charges.

Reddy and his son Vijay Kumar Lakireddy -- who are accused of bringing
immigrants illegally into the United States for labor and sex -- returned to
federal court Tuesday with several family members. About a dozen South Asian
activists also turned up with signs to demand stiff punishment for the two men.

Defense lawyers had asked that prosecutors divulge the names of all Indian
villagers the two men stand accused of bringing into the country illegally.
Currently, the indictment names three.

However, a federal prosecutor said Tuesday that those concerns would be answered
in a new indictment with added charges.

"We will be expanding the conspiracy," said assistant U.S. Attorney John
Kennedy.

Reddy has been charged with eight felony counts, including importing immigrants
for immoral purposes and transporting minors for illegal sexual activity. He was
released Jan. 25 on $10 million bail and ordered to stay at a brother's house in
Merced.

Lakireddy has been charged with three counts, including submitting fraudulent
visa applications. He has posted $500,000 bail. Father and son have asserted
their innocence.

The investigation by Berkeley police and INS officials started when a
17-year-old girl died in November of carbon monoxide poisoning in a Reddy-owned
apartment. The girl's death was later deemed accidental.

Judge Saundra Armstrong rejected a defense request that Berkeley City Attorney
Manuela Albuquerque be disciplined for claiming in court that Reddy and his
associates attempted to spirit away the 17-year-old girl's body in avan and
tried to misdirect a 911 dispatcher.

A tape of the 911 call made from the girl's apartment reveals a legitimate
emergency call for help, defense lawyers said.

Armstrong ruled that Albuquerque did not show reckless disregard for the truth
but merely echoed erroneous information from police. At most, Albuquerque was
negligent, said the judge.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 18, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MARCHERS CITE RISE IN BORDER DEATHS

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


A few years ago, Rafael Reyes would bid relatives and friends goodbye without
much concern as they headed illegally over the U.S.-Mexico border. Now
everything has changed.

"I would tell them not to go. It's just too dangerous," Reyes, 42, a human
rights lawyer in the border city of Tijuana, said Monday.

A new report from the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, a
well-established immigrant rights group, says that 37 people died from heat,
cold, drowning or other causes while crossing the state's 140-mile southern
border region in the first three months of the year. That is an increase from 22
people during the same period in 1999 and the highest number for the first
quarter in five years, according to the foundation.

About 45 people, mostly Catholic seminarians, left early Monday on a 70-mile,
five-day march along the Mexican side of the border fence from Tijuana to La
Rumorosa, a rugged area east of Tecate, Mexico. They said they want to call
attention to the deaths, which they say total 500 in California since a U.S.
border enforcement crackdown called Operation Gatekeeper began in October 1994.

"It's not an accident that 500 people died," said Reyes, who was among the
marchers gathered along a busy, six-lane boulevard at 7 a.m. "It's a direct
consequence of Gatekeeper."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service and U.S. Border Patrol were unable
Monday to confirm the statistics. But agency records do show that 217 people
have died in the state since 1998, INS spokeswoman Virginia Kice said.

A total of 247 people died from 1995 to 1999 along the San Diego County border,
according to Border Patrol spokesman Roy Villareal, who collected the data from
the county medical examiner.

Operation Gatekeeper is part of a broader U.S. effort to stop illegal
immigration along the Southwest border. It included an increase in Border Patrol
agents in San Diego from 900 in 1994 to the current level of 2,100.

As a result, illegal immigration was pushed to more perilous routes through the
mountains of eastern San Diego County and the deserts of Imperial County and
Arizona.

That has resulted in incidents such as the deaths of three immigrants from
hypothermia near Pine Valley in March and the drownings of 12 people so far this
year in the fast-moving waters of the All-American Canal in Imperial County.

The Border Patrol doesn't dispute the shift in immigration and has created an
emergency rescue team and trained hundreds of agents as paramedics. At the same
time, the heavier presence of agents has contributed to a 40 percent decline in
crime since 1995 in the San Diego border zone, authorities say.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Jesus Lopez of Salinas looks over the border, with crosses representing migrants
who died along the border, into the United States from Tijuana, Mexico.
[000418 CA 3B]
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
More than 40 people, below, on Monday started a 70-mile march to call attention
to the increasing death toll of migrants along the border.
[000418 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 21, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EFFORT ABANDONED TO REVIVE MEASURE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


The author of a proposed initiative that would have revived Proposition 187, the
anti-illegal immigration measure ruled unconstitutional in the courts, said
Thursday he has dropped his effort to place it on the November ballot.

Ron Prince, co-chairman of the 1994 initiative and drafter of this year's
measure, said he could collect neither the signatures needed to put it on the
ballot nor the money to run such a campaign.

Latinos weren't the only ones happy to hear that the "Son of Proposition 187"
was laid to rest. Many Republicans, who rallied around the original Proposition
187, also were relieved.

"Having the initiative would have created an echo of 187, and would have
probably hurt Republicans," said Michael Capaldi, president of Orange County's
Lincoln Club, the Republican organization that endorsed Proposition 187 but was
opposing the new version.

For many Latinos, the 1994 measure pushed by then-Gov. Pete Wilson turned into a
referendum against their ethnicity, with Mexican-Americans complaining that they
were receiving extra scrutiny because of their heritage. The result was a
political boon for Democrats in the state -- and the loss of much Latino support
for the GOP.

Republicans are now eager to heal those wounds and have made an intensive effort
to reach out to Latino voters this year. Latinos are becoming more important to
both parties as larger numbers go to the polls -- some for the first time. This
is particularly critical in the presidential election, where presumed GOP
nominee George W. Bush is playing up his connections with Texas Latinos to
improve his leverage in vote-rich California.

The last thing Republicans wanted was a ballot initiative to prevent the
California Legislature from approving any law providing benefits to illegal
immigrants.

"If we can get past the stigma of 187, we can start winning elections," said Art
Pedroza, a GOP Latino activist.

While no elected Republican leader directly pressured Prince to withdraw his
effort, he said, an Orange County GOP activist called him last month to ask how
he could help get the measure on the ballot.

But at a subsequent lunch, the activist, whom Prince would not identify, urged
him to drop it, saying it would hurt Bush, Prince said. Prince refused, but on
Tuesday night, after meeting with fellow supporters, decided not to go forward.

Prince said he had collected fewer than half the required 670,816 voter
signatures and had raised only about $15,000 for the effort -- a minuscule sum
in a state where mounting such a campaign can cost millions of dollars.

Co-sponsored by the Huntington Beach-based Coalition for Immigration Reform, the
measure would have discouraged illegal immigration by banning free prenatal care
and other benefits and requiring schools to document how many of their students
are not in the country legally.

It would also have required the residency status of all arrestees to be
determined and handed over to immigration authorities. A state Document
Verification Bureau would be established.

A letter Capaldi was preparing for Prince and the coalition discouraged the
effort, calling it a step toward requiring a state identification card.

The cold shoulder from many Republicans aroused the ire of initiative
supporters.

"The Republican Party has turned into cowards," said activist Evelyn Miller. "I
don't think the people of the state care enough to protect their state and their
nation any more."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 23, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AGENT PLAYED CRUCIAL ROLE RAID: WOMAN CRADLED ELIAN AND ALLAYED HIS FEARS DURING
TRIP.

BYLINE: MIMI WHITEFIELD, Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration and Naturalization Service Special Agent Betty A. Mills, who cradled
Elian Gonzalez in her arms as they left his relatives' Little Havana home,
played one of the most critical roles in the pre-dawn seizure of the scared
little boy.

Her instructions: Locate Elian, get him safely into a waiting van, and stay with
him and allay his fears until federal agents reunited him with his father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.

After Elian was found in a closet, Mills told him in Spanish: "I know this seems
frightening to you now, but it will all be over very soon," said Russ Bergeron,
director of media relations for the INS. "She told him: 'We're not going to take
you to Cuba. We're not going to put you on a raft. We're taking you to see your
papa.' "

During the flight to Maryland, aboard a U.S. Marshals Service plane, Mills, 33,
repeated that message, which psychological experts consulted by the INS said
would "help overcome (Elian's) anxiety and assuage any fears," Bergeron said.

Once they were aboard the plane, he never left Mills' lap, said INS officials.
It was his first airplane trip.

'Very interactive'

"Elian is very interactive with his adult caregiver. He was calm on the flight
and he bonded with her immediately," said Karen Kraushaar, an INS spokeswoman
who spoke with Mills after the plane landed at the base.

Mills, an eight-year veteran of the INS, had been specifically chosen for the
role because experts advised the INS that a Spanish-speaking, female agent would
be the least intimidating for the delicate role of extracting Elian from the
Miami home.

"We determined very early on that she would be the appropriate person for this
operation. She had all the pieces we were looking for," Kraushaar said. "As a
law enforcement officer she was wedded to a very scary situation and she
performed admirably."

Mills, who is based in Miami, has a broad range of INS experience, is a veteran
of tactical operations and is fluent in Spanish. Her mother is Puerto Rican and
her father was born in Virginia. Mills grew up in Pennsylvania, speaking both
English and Spanish.

From Army to INS

After a stint in the Army where she was a member of the military police, Mills
joined the INS as a border patrol agent in El Paso. Her next assignments were as
an immigration agent in Phoenix and as an INS inspector in Pittsburgh.

During the operation, Mills and another agent were specifically assigned to
Elian. The second agent was a backup for Mills. Once the child was in the van, a
key part of Mills' role was to put him at ease.

For the flight, the INS prepared food and a package of toys for Elian that
agents had been told would help relieve stress and anxiety. They included a
Pokemon game, crayons, an airplane and Play-Doh.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE ELIAN GONZALEZ SAGA
RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 13A, 14A, 16-22A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: WILFREDO LEE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Elian Gonzalez, center, is removed from his home by agent Betty A. Mills in a
pre-dawn raid.
[000423 FR 21A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 1, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EX-FRIEND: SUSPECT IN KILLING IS MENTALLY ILL

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 109 words


The man arrested in a killing spree that left three immigrants, a Jewish woman
and a black man dead had a history of mental illness and irrational fears that
he was being watched, an ex-friend and his attorney said Sunday.

Police searching the home of Richard Scott Baumhammers, 34, also found a
three-page manifesto indicating that he was trying to form a political party
opposed to immigration, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported.

The document, which included Baumhammers' signature as "chairman" of the Free
Market Party, advocated the rights of European Americans and denounced Third
World immigration, according to a prosecution source.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:;
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Baumhammers
[000501 FR 5A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      May 1, 2000 Monday PENINSULA EDITION

CITIZEN STRUGGLES FOR PROOF LOST PAPERS: NATURALIZED AS A CHILD, PALO ALTO
WOMAN'S ATTEMPTS TO OBTAIN PASSPORT LED TO BUREAUCRATIC NIGHTMARE.

BYLINE: TRUONG PHUOC KHANH, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 813 words


Dianne Bradley is certain there are other immigrants out there about to stumble
onto the citizenship nightmare she did.

She tells her cautionary tale for those who go through life thinking they are
American citizens and one day discover they don't have the legal paper to prove
it.

"My life is kind of on hold until I get some kind of proof of who I am," said
Bradley, a mother of two who lives in Palo Alto. "I feel kind of like a nomad
right now."

Bradley immigrated to the United States with her parents from the Netherlands in
1957. She was 3 years old.

In 1962, her parents became naturalized citizens. Because she and an older
sister were minors, they automatically became naturalized citizens, too. "My
whole life is in the United States, where I've lived, had my children, made my
place," said Bradley, an account coordinator for Intuit. "This is my home. It's
absurd that after all these years, I don't have the right to travel, come and go
as I please."

Bradley, 46, had planned a cruise to the Caribbean with her daughter for her
17th birthday in June. After four decades in the country, Bradley needed a
passport for the first time. The cruise would cross into international waters,
the travel agent told her.

That's when Bradley learned she can't get a passport because she can't prove
she's a U.S. citizen: She's missing her citizenship papers.

A search through old files of her parents, now deceased, yielded no help.

"Every single document exists except for the naturalization papers," she said.

Not knowing where to turn, she started with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

"That's when the nightmare really began," said Bradley, a patient and organized
woman who has kept a mini-diary recording her interactions with the immigration
office.

After standing in line for two mornings at the immigration office in San Jose,
she had been given three different versions of what she needed to do: get a
green card, get an application for citizenship and get a verification
application of citizenship.

Then there was the G639, the Freedom of Information-Privacy Act Report. Andyet
another form to seek confirmation from the New Jersey court that naturalized her
family.

This week, she logged on the Internet and downloaded the N565, an application
for a replacement of a citizenship certificate.

Time, however, has run out and Bradley has canceled the birthday present. The
cruise would have started on her daughter's 17th birthday, June 24.

"We were just so psyched for this," she said. "This ship was just huge, the ship
we were going on."

Immigration attorney Robert Mautino said it's hard to say how many other child
immigrants, now grown, may not have hung on to their citizenship papers. "There
are a lot of children who are naturalized at the time their parents are," said
Mautino, of San Diego, who specializes in citizenship laws.

While many families recognize the importance of keeping naturalization records
in a secure place, some may have lost track of them over the years because they
were rarely asked to furnish them, he said.

Although there is a heightened awareness of immigration issues today, immigrants
who arrived in the 1940s and '50s came by boat and their legal status to stay
was rarely questioned, said Mautino.

"Once people got here, there was no need for documents inside the country,"
Mautino said. "So people could live and work and do everything they wanted to do
here without any need for documents."

Bradley knows she was naturalized with her parents because her older sister has
a copy of her citizenship certificate, dated May 25, 1962.

She's not the first to have lost her paperwork. The INS Northern California
district office gets more than 1,000 applications for replacement of citizenship
papers a year, said INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.

"This might pose a cautionary tale for parents who have naturalized to be
certain to hand the papers down to their children," she said.

What has held up Bradley's request is that the INS computerized its database
only as far back as the mid-'60s. Her files likely were archived and those
searches can take more than a year, Rummery said.

"If a person entered in the '60s or before, it's possible there is no record of
that reflected in the computers," she said.

Meanwhile, Bradley has sought assistance from Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto.

Eshoo's chief of staff, John Flaherty, said Friday the congresswoman "got the
(INS) logjam unjammed. Dianne is expected to receive a letter some time next
week confirming she's a naturalized citizen," Flaherty said.

"There are probably more than a few people who take the evidence of their
citizenship for granted," he said. "They haven't had to produce the documents,
haven't had to apply for a passport. Our advice is everyone reading this
(should) go look for their papers."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 2B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
As a child, Dianne Bradley of Palo Alto became a naturalized citizen with her
immigrant parents, but without her papers, she has had trouble finding proof to
obtain a passport.
[000501 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 4, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS INSPECTOR INDICTED FOR ALLEGED BRIBE TAKING

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Mercury News Staff, Writer Kaye
Ross

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


An immigration inspector at San Francisco International Airport was indicted
Wednesday by a federal grand jury in San Francisco on charges of receiving a
bribe and agreeing to sell stolen passport stamps.

According to an affidavit filed in the case, David Ayerdi, 27, of Burlingame, an
inspector with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, allegedly agreed
to sell immigration stamps used to stamp passports of incoming foreign travelers
for $100,000.

The affidavit said Ayerdi was arrested in San Francisco on March 29 as he
allegedly received a $10,000 down payment for the scheme.

He is free on bond pending arraignment May 11.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 7, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN CAMPAIGNS MAKE STOPS IN THE U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CONTENDERS SEEK INFLUENCE
BACK HOME

BYLINE: MICHELLE RAY ORTIZ, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


They are far from home and from the voting booths where Mexico's next
presidential election will be decided, but the immigrants who toil in the United
States are nonetheless being courted by top candidates.

This weekend, Vicente Fox, the political cowboy who hopes to upset Mexico's
long-ruling party in the July 2 election, makes a campaign swing north of the
border. Tonight, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, the former Mexico City mayor who is
running third in polls, heads to Los Angeles.

Fox was in Chicago on Saturday. Then it was on to California for a rally in
Bakersfield, a Cinco de Mayo celebration in Fresno and appearances before state
lawmakers in Sacramento. Cardenas planned two days of meetings with Mexican
citizens, support groups and journalists.

But just what is a Mexican presidential contender seeking by campaigning in a
foreign country where his compatriots have no power to cast ballots? In a word,
influence, according to Fox fans and observers.

"Fox is very intelligent," said Ezequiel Banda Sifuentes, a leader in a pro-Fox
group based in Chicago. "He sees what other people don't seem to realize -- that
we are Mexicans who go to Mexico, who write letters, who call our mothers,
fathers and sisters almost every day."

The candidates hope to benefit from the great influence the immigrants hold. Not
only do many head families, but also the earnings they send home total $7
billion a year, making it Mexico's third-largest source of legal income behind
oil and tourism.

"We are a pillar of the Mexican economy. Without us, the system would fall
down," said Luis Magana, coordinator of an immigrant assistance group in
Stockton who plans to listen to Fox in Fresno.

In the United States there are 7.2 million Mexican-born immigrants -- who would
represent more than 10 percent of the Mexican electorate if they were allowed to
vote from abroad, according to a study by Mexico's Federal Electoral Institute.

But an effort to grant that power died last year in the Mexican Senate, where it
was blocked by members of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has
governed for 71 years straight.

Both Fox and Cardenas have supported absentee voting. Fox, of the pro-Roman
Catholic and pro-business National Action Party, is governor of the state of
Guanajuato, from which many have emigrated to the United States, and is well
aware of the need to appeal to the expatriates.

He has spoken of his desire to make schoolchildren computer-literate and
English-savvy, and supported a call to expand the North American Free Trade
Agreement to include the free flow of labor over border lines.

And by promoting his reputation as a man of the campo -- the countryside -- he
is not only playing to migrant workers but also fighting for the poor voters who
traditionally have been squarely behind the ruling party, said David Shirk, a
recent fellow at the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies in San Diego.

With recent polls showing Fox nearly tied with ruling-party candidate Francisco
Labastida, support won from immigrants could help decide July's election.
Labastida's advisers say he doesn't plan to visit the United Statesbefore the
election.

"But if he went to California, he probably would end up not being well-received
by the migrant population," said Jesus Martinez Saldana, an analyst with
Instituto Mora, a research center in Mexico City.

Not only has Labastida opposed the voting-abroad movement, Martinez said, but
also as a candidate of the ruling party, he could face criticism for the
economic situation that has led Mexicans to leave their country.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DAVID DE LA PAZ -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Mexican presidential candidate Vicente Fox, pictured here in Mexico, is
appearing at a Bakersfield rally, a Cinco de Mayo celebration in Fresno and
before state lawmakers in Sacramento.
[000507 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 19, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOY, 11, WON'T BE DEPORTED;
FOR NOW INS, ON LAST DAY, RULES HE CAN STAY WITH FAMILY

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 632 words


Eleven-year-old Isaac Soto couldn't contain his glee Thursday, hugging his
family and continually posing for news photographers in his Hayward home.

On the day he was scheduled to be deported to Mexico, Isaac instead announced
that the U.S. government had granted him permission to remain in the country for
at least another year.

Isaac was about to be deported to Mexico, even though his parents are legal
residents, his three siblings are U.S. citizens and he has lived here since
hewas a toddler. An attorney who helped his parents fill out immigration forms
gave them bad advice, according to the family's new lawyer.

"I couldn't sleep. I couldn't concentrate on my homework," said Isaac, who is
enrolled in a program for gifted and talented students at Burbank Elementary
School in Hayward and who aspires to design airplanes for NASA.

His fate changed late Wednesday, a day before he was to be deported, when an
Immigration and Naturalization Service official called the attorneys at the East
San Jose Community Law Center to announce that the government agency had agreed
to stay Isaac's pending removal.

The INS is now considering a petition to grant Isaac temporary residency, which
would allow him to eventually become a citizen.

Isaac, whose maturity has left a lasting impression on the law center's staff
and his teachers, said he was a bit bothered by all the attention Elian Gonzalez
received in Miami and in Washington, D.C., from the thousands of people who
wanted the Cuban boy to remain in the United States after his mother died in the
ocean on their way to Florida.

"His case is not that similar with mine because he had been in the United States
just a little bit of days and they wanted to give citizenship to him," Isaac
said. "And me, I've been here almost all my life, and they were deporting me."

Isaac's saga began about three years ago when his parents, who were
undocumented, took an attorney's advice and applied for political asylum in
their effort to obtain legal residency. While asylum petitions are more often
granted to Latin Americans from El Salvador or Peru, they are rarely approved
for Mexicans -- something the family didn't know, said Cindy Avitia, a legal
assistant at the law center.

The asylum petition was denied. Isaac's parents, Ruben and Maria Soto, were sent
to immigration removal proceedings, which allowed them an opportunity to plead
their case for residency.

However, the attorney at the time included Isaac as a third applicant, which
should have never happened, Avitia said, because he is so young. Instead, Avitia
said, Ruben and Maria Soto should have obtained their residency first and then
petitioned for Isaac.

Avitia, who worked on the case with attorney Lynette Parker, would not name the
attorney who previously advised the family. Isaac's story, she said, illustrates
the difficulty for new immigrants of finding trustworthy and competent lawyers
when navigating through the INS bureaucracy.

As it turned out, Ruben and Maria Soto were granted residency under a law
designed for people who meet a number of criteria, including being here at least
10 years.

Isaac was 8 at the time, so he didn't qualify.

Isaac, who said he doesn't know anybody in Mexico, worried intensely as
deportation day approached. His parents, meanwhile, contacted the law center,
which worked feverishly the past two weeks to persuade the INS to allow Isaac to
stay.

"I feel very grateful that the INS handled this case with priority," said Ruben
Soto, who installs air conditioners, heaters and ventilation systems. "This was
a big relief for everybody, especially for Isaac."

However, Isaac is still undocumented, and the INS district office in San
Francisco is considering whether to grant him legal residency.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Isaac
The 11-year-old was scheduled to be deported to Mexico on Thursday.
[000519 LO 1B SC]
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Isaac Soto, third from left, and his siblings, from left, Shannon, Arleene and
Edwin are happy Isaac can stay in the United States.
[000519 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 29, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TARGET: NEEDS OF FOREIGN BORN

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1028 words


In an unprecedented effort to improve the lives of local immigrants, a group of
county employees and hundreds of volunteers who speak more than a dozen
different languages are embarking on an extensive study of the area's rapidly
growing foreign-born population.

On the heels of surveys mailed to nearly 20,000 homes last week, the employees
and volunteers have begun to disperse throughout Santa Clara County -- where a
third of the residents are foreign born -- to learn precisely what kind of
services immigrants need.

The 18-month project, headed by the county's Citizenship and Immigration
program, will culminate in December with recommendations on how local
governments, school systems, small businesses, hospitals and non-profit agencies
can enhance programs and services for more than a half-million people who make
Santa Clara County their home.

The project also will lead to the publication of a resource directory, which
would be made available to anyone who requests it.

"Our hope is we'll be able to address some unique issues or problems that face
immigrants," said Jane Decker, a deputy county executive whose office oversees
the project, which costs nearly $1 million.

The effort, known as the Summit on Immigrant Needs, is an extension of a daylong
brainstorming session last May at which county officials sought input from
hundreds of representatives from local municipalities and non-profit agencies
that serve large immigrant populations.

Officials learned that even in Santa Clara County, which has among the highest
concentrations of immigrants in the nation, foreign-born residents have a
difficult time finding well-paying jobs, health care, affordable housing and
legal services.

Officials also learned that many immigrants did not use available services
because of a lack of information in their native languages.

Four research areas

The Summit project is divided into four major research areas:

* Equipped with a database of ethnic surnames, volunteers have spoken to and
sent questionnaires to 1,600 residents born in the five countries that represent
the county's largest immigrant groups -- Mexico, Vietnam, China, the Philippines
and India.

* Using a mailing list provided by the county's Social Services Department,
project workers are sending some 18,000 additional surveys to local residents in
an effort to find out about immigrants on public assistance. The surveys ask
wide-ranging questions on topics from bilingual education to community
participation.

* Immigrants are participating in as many as 27 focus groups, in which bilingual
moderators are asking them open-ended questions about their concerns.

* Five families -- from Mexico, Vietnam, Iran, Bosnia and Somalia -- meet
monthly to discuss issues they confront, and possible solutions.

"This is a lot of work, but it's really just the beginning because the real goal
is to implement the recommendations," said Richard Hobbs, director of the
Citizenship and Immigration program. The program started four years ago to
naturalize the county's permanent residents so they wouldn't lose public
benefits under 1996 federal legislation.

"The goal is to have self-sustaining, healthy, immigrant families in the
county," Hobbs added.

The project also relies heavily on 16 work groups that are researching issues
such as citizenship, criminal justice, dependent care and domestic violence.

Virtually every non-profit organization that deals exclusively withimmigrants is
linked to the project, which is believed to be the only one of its kind in the
nation.

"This is another example of the leadership that the county has taken on the
issues of concern to immigrants," said Richard Konda, executive director of the
Asian Law Alliance, who sits on the project's steering committee along with
about 40 others.

The steering committee includes a research advisory council of 15 professors
from San Jose State, Santa Clara and Stanford universities who help with the
surveys, the most far-reaching attempt ever to assess the needs of immigrants in
the county.

But the survey, printed in 15 languages, could prove daunting to many because of
its length: It contains 113 questions. Hobbs doesn't expect a large return rate,
and to encourage participation, most of the surveys contain a coupon to be
entered in a raffle for a $100 grocery store gift certificate.

Assessing needs

The survey asks if the participant or a family member has received, or needs to
receive, assistance with dental care, job training, and transportation, among
other issues.

And it asks intensely personal questions: "Does your family have enough food to
eat every day of the month?" "What are the ways people in your community
discipline their children?" "Do you have a green card?"

Some more sensitive topics, such as domestic violence, are being studied in
depth in the work groups, which are each co-chaired by one of the seven
Citizenship and Immigration employees. Five of those seven county employees are
immigrants.

"We always talk about domestic violence in general terms, but we haven't
specifically targeted immigrants or minority groups," said Yoko Baba, a San Jose
State sociologist who co-chairs the domestic violence committee.

The committee on dependent care has learned that many immigrants are having
difficulty sending their children to child-care centers -- and not just because
of the cost.

"It's very difficult to leave their children with people who may not speak their
language, who may not even have an understanding of the culture they come from,"
said Delia Ho, a supervising public health nurse for the county's social
services agency.

In addition to sending their children to day care, said Ho, who co-chairs the
committee, many of the same adults are placing their parents in senior day
centers.

"When you're struggling to make it in the community, because you have to support
yourself, support your family, it's hard, so we're trying to make it easier for
them," Ho said.

The Summit on Immigrant Needs will present its findings Dec. 6, at a conference
tentatively scheduled for the Wyndham Hotel in San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: [The following information did not run in the Morning Final Edition]
SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
The 18-month Summit on Immigrant Needs aims to help Santa Clara County's large
immigrant community access programs and services. The summit has four research
areas:
* 1,600 questionnaires were sent to a list of residents taken from a database of
ethnic surnames.
* 18,000 surveys will be sent out to a mailing list provided by the county's
Social Services Department.
* Bilingual moderators will ask questions about immigrants' concerns in as many
as 27 focus groups.
* Five families from Mexico, Vietnam, Iran, Bosnia and Somalia will meet monthly
to discuss issues they confront, and possible solutions.
-- Mercury News reporting

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 10, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OLDER WORKERS CAN PICK UP THE SLACK

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 327 words


RONALD Fernandez ("Who will be working to pay your retirement benefits?
Immigrants," Opinion, June 7) describes a support ratio -- the number of workers
a nation needs to support the elderly. As the birth rate drops, the elderly
become a larger proportion of the population. To maintain a higher ratio,
developed countries are looking at increasing the retirement age and/or
increasing immigration.

Fernandez seemed to imply that only wealthier, developed countries face this
challenge. Isn't China dealing with the same problem? Declining birth rates due
to individual preference don't seem so bad compared to the escalating
populations in some countries, or the heavy-handed methods China has used to
slow the birth rate.

To me, the ratio Fernandez describes seems incomplete. The same people who are
"working to pay for your retirement benefits" are also working to pay for the
care of children, the sick, and the disabled. The difference is that many older
people are still healthy and able to work. More of them will probably choose to
do so with the more flexible Social Security rules.

We will all have to compromise on this one. People are living longer, healthier
lives. The Social Security retirement age is already rising. Immigration will
slow the change in the ratio somewhat, but I disagree that America "desperately
needs" increased immigration. Immigrants should not be viewed exclusively as a
way to bring in cheap, young labor. And yes, everyone would like to see the
economies in poor countries improve so people don't have to leave their homes to
escape from grinding poverty. Maybe immigrants from those countries could offer
suggestions on how America could help with this.

In the end, I'm guessing that the U.S. population will stabilize at a point with
a lower support ratio. I'd like to see a more complete ratio, one that includes
all dependents: retirees, children, the disabled and the sick.

Betsy Miller
Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
A Page Devoted To Letters From Readers

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 14, 2000 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

MORALS CASE TO CHANGE NEW INDICTMENT ON IMMIGRATION OF GIRLS

BYLINE: ALEXIS CHIU, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 281 words


The federal prosecutor in a case against a prominent Berkeley landlord and his
son who are charged with bringing Indian girls into the country illegally said
he expects a new indictment by August.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John Kennedy, appearing at a status hearing Tuesday in
federal court in Oakland, would not, however, divulge whether the new indictment
would contain additional charges, defendants or perhaps fewer counts.

The indictment would "supersede" the current indictment, which charges Lakireddy
Bali Reddy with numerous immigration law violations, including bringing
foreigners to the United States illegally for immoral purposes. His son, Vijay
Kumar Lakireddy, is accused of visa fraud.

At the hearing, attorneys for the two told the judge they plan to file motions
that some charges be dismissed.

Reddy, 62, and his 30-year-old son are free on bail. Neither appeared in court;
they are not required to attend status hearings.

Reddy, a landlord and restaurateur whose assets have been valued at more than
$50 million, allegedly used high-tech visas secured by his son to bring girls
into the country so they could work in his businesses and have sex with him.

Other foreigners allegedly were brought into the country so they could pretend
to be the girls' relatives.

Police first came into contact with Reddy after a teen girl was found dead at
the Reddy-owned Berkeley Park Apartments in November.

While the teen's death was ruled accidental, caused by an improperly ventilated
gas heater, authorities soon received an anonymous letter about the alleged
scheme and began investigating.

The next hearing in the case is scheduled Sept. 12.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 2B, Morning Final edition.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 16, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO MATTER WHAT SANCHEZ DOES, IT SURE BEATS FLIPPIN' BURGERS

BYLINE: SAM FARMER, DARREN SABEDRA AND ANN KILLION, Mercury News

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1008 words


Javier Sanchez got off to a sizzling start Thursday in the first round of the
U.S. Open, going par-birdie-par before play was suspended because of fog.

That said, few people -- if anyone -- believe Sanchez has a prayer of being on
the leader board down the stretch.

That's OK by Sanchez. He doesn't pay much heed to naysayers or mind-boggling
odds. After all, he beat incredible odds just to get this far.

Sanchez, 41, took up golf 20 years ago when he was a cook at Palo Alto Municipal
Golf Course. Four years earlier, he left his home in Mexico and paidsomeone $50
to help him cross the border. He had an uncle who lived in Redwood City and
Sanchez settled there, where he got a job as a dishwasher.

He later got a job cleaning rooms at a Holiday Inn. There, he had some close
calls with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"There were a couple of times when I was working in Palo Alto and a lot of the
immigration came in and chased us around the place," he said. "We sneaked out
into the rooms until they left."

He eventually got a job in the golf club kitchen, where he made $3 an hour and
saved enough money to buy a used set of clubs for $150.

"I saw people out there playing but I had no idea what they were doing," he
said. "I was very interested in finding out. So I got some golf clubs, a bag,
and I used to go to the driving range and not even hit a ball, just watch people
swing. And later on, when everybody would leave, I'd kind of start imitating
them. I started hitting the ball up in the air and fell in love with the game.
Later on, (the club pro) gave me some instructions and I went on from there."

Soon, Sanchez was hooked.

"After I'd get done with work, I'd go out and practice," he said. "It was a
piece of cake. I'd spend a lot of hours in the dark. I used to putt with the
lights on in the parking lot; they'd shine on the putting green. I used to play
there until 9, 10 at night. I put in a lot of hard work."

It paid off. He eventually married an American woman (he has since remarried)
and became a legal resident. He moved to Fayetteville, Ga., where he got a job
at a driving range and wound up on the T.C. Jordan Tour.

In 1983, Sanchez got a call from the U.S. Golf Association that Billy Ray Brown
was pulling out of the Open and that Sanchez was the first alternate. He hopped
a plane to New Jersey, and 12 hours later was playing in the Open at Baltusrol,
a course he had never seen. He missed the cut.

Sanchez qualified for four more Opens (1993 through '96), finally making the
36-hole cut in '96 and finishing in a tie for 90th, for which he collected
$5,305. The same year was his best on the Nike Tour. He played in 14 of those
tournaments, including a second-place showing in the St. Louis Golf Classic.

Once again, he made the Open this year with strong rounds in the local and
sectional qualifiers.

"(I made it by) chasing that ball and shooting low numbers," he said. "It's
hard. It's hard to get into the local and sectional qualifiers. I was very
fortunate to be playing good at the time. It seems like when the summer comes
around, my game gets a little better.

"I feel good about my game. This is a very hard golf course. As long as I keep
it in the short grass, I think I'll be OK."

Sutton starts quickly

Hal Sutton buried the first opening-hole eagle in U.S. Open history Thursday. He
followed that by sinking birdies at No. 2 and No. 4 and eventually went to
6-under-par through 13 holes.

Then things started to unravel.

Sutton double bogeyed 14 and bogeyed 16 and 18. Once at the top of the leader
board, Sutton finished 2 under par, four strokes behind Tiger Woods, the leader.

"What a weird day," Sutton said. "The weather was kind of strange and my finish
was real strange. Lot of good and a lot of bad . . . I guess that is U.S. Open
type stuff."

Sutton watched playing partner Lee Westwood's lie at the par-5 14th and noticed
that his ball slowed in the wind and ended up in a bunker.

"I went ahead and hit a smooth pitching wedge," Sutton said. "I guess the wind
got in behind mine, because I didn't hit it very hard. We were uphill."

Sutton's ball landed in deep rough.

"I hit a really good chip from where that ended up," he said. "But I hit a weak
putt."

There were more problems at No. 18.

"I couldn't see over about 150 to 200 yards," Sutton said, referring to the fog
that had settled in. "That makes it usually pretty hard."

Jack gets choked up

Jack Nicklaus stepped up to the first tee to start his 44th consecutive U.S.
Open, looked at his son and caddie Jack II and stepped back for a moment.

"Excuse me," Nicklaus said, fighting back tears. "I was just having a moment for
our defending champion."

Nicklaus was referring to Payne Stewart, who died in a plane crash last fall. As
reigning champion, Stewart was supposed to play in a group that included the
British Open champion and the U.S. amateur champion. Nicklaus, a four-time Open
champion, was asked to take Stewart's place.

After Nicklaus' pause, he again stepped to the tee and started what could be his
final U.S. Open. Nicklaus stood at 2 over par through nine holes when play was
postponed.

'Happy Halloween'

Jesper Parnevik got lots of notice for his orange shirt. Which is exactly what
he must have wanted when he put on his shirt.

"Hey Jesper, Happy Halloween," one spectator yelled.

Tiger Woods called his threesome member "a beacon," and at times in the thick
fog, Parnevik's shirt was the only thing that stood out.

Tiger the fan

Woods said he tries to stay away from the media reports calling him a favorite.
He tries not to watch television or read newspapers during a tournament.
However, he confessed to one breakdown this week.

"Actually, I got pretty good vibes last night after my Lakers won," he said.

* Monterey High track star Sani Roseby, who won the state 100-meter championship
two weeks ago, is working at a much slower pace this week. She's monitoring
press credentials at the media dining commons.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 100TH U.S. OPEN AT PEBBLE BEACH
NOTEBOOK

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM -- MERCURY NEWS
Miguel Angel Jimenez, who trails leader Tiger Woods by one stroke, blasts from a
bunker at 15 en route to a bogey-5.
[000616 SP 10D]
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
Hal Sutton eagled the first hole and got to 6 under before his round began to
unravel on the back nine. He finished at 2-under-par 69, four strokes behind
Tiger Woods.
[000616 SP 10D]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 29, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAN TAKES SAN ANTONIO ARCHBISHOP HOSTAGE STANDOFF: IMMIGRANT FACING LEGAL
PROBLEMS FREES TEXAS CLERIC UNHARMED AFTER NINE HOURS.

BYLINE: MICHELE KOIDIN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Texas


A man seeking help on a passport problem and claiming to have a hand grenade
took Archbishop Patrick Flores hostage in his office for nine hours before
releasing him Wednesday evening.

The Roman Catholic archbishop appeared to be unharmed as he was escorted out of
his office by police and placed on a stretcher.

Suspect Nelson Antonio Escolero, 40, an immigrant from El Salvador, was led out
in handcuffs.

Gabriel Trevino, a police department news officer, said police had been
negotiating with the man through the day.

The archbishop's secretary, Myrtle Sanchez, was also held for about three hours.
She was freed unharmed.

She said Escolero had been holding something in his hand that she believed to be
a weapon but she could not identify it, said Monsignor Larry Stuebben, who spoke
to her shortly after she was released. She described the man as upset but not
out of control. Police later said the device was a fake grenade.

"He's very frustrated by the way he's been treated, and wants the archbishop to
help him," Stuebben said Sanchez told him.

Escolero has been in the United States about 25 years and has three children.
His wife and one son were at the scene, Stuebben said. It was unknown if the man
was in the United States illegally.

He entered the office about 10 a.m.

Richard Yzaguirre, general manager of Catholic Television, a service run by the
archdiocese, said Escolero, a legal resident of the United States facing legal
trouble, asked for help with a passport problem. He seemed calmand was
respectful to Flores, but the man "was pretty insistent he wanted him to help
him with this problem," Yzaguirre said.

The chancery is the headquarters for the 23-county San Antonio Archdiocese.
Flores, 70, became the first Mexican-American Catholic bishop in the nation when
he was named its auxiliary bishop.

Before Flores' release, as many as 50 law enforcement officers -- FBI hostage
negotiators, SWAT officers and others -- were at the scene as a crowd of at
least 100 gathered outside the Catholic chancery in 90-degree weather and
prayed. About 100 chancery employees had to be evacuated.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 1, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. TREATMENT OF MIGRANTS AT ISSUE IN MEXICAN ELECTION

BYLINE: MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 821 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


An estimated 1 million Mexican workers immigrate to the United States each year,
and their treatment and safety are a key issue in Mexico's presidential race,
which culminates Sunday.

Authorities say Mexican immigration to the United States -- legal and illegal --
is increasing by an estimated 5 percent a year. While most of the workers who
leave their homes in Mexico eventually return to them, an estimated 250,000 a
year don't, according to Jorge Bustamante, a professor at the University of
Notre Dame in Indiana and the prestigious Colegio de Mexico's branch in Tijuana.

The money Mexican workers send home is important because about half of the
households in Mexico earn less than $100 a month. But there are increasing
social problems in Mexico because of the rising number of workers who stay in
the United States, especially the young men who start new families and stop
supporting their families in Mexico, according to Mexican foreign ministry
officials.

Flows stronger

A 1997 study by the two federal governments put the number of Mexican-born
residents of the United States at 7 million to 7.3 million, with about 2.4
million of those having entered illegally. One knowledgeable U.S. official who
spoke on condition of anonymity says he thinks the number of Mexican-born U.S.
residents is now closer to 15 million.

"The flows are stronger," he said.

It all helps explain why each candidate in Mexico's presidential election has
tried to persuade voters he'd do best at improving the country's economy so more
people would stay home. All the leading candidates -- Vicente Fox of the
National Action Party (PAN, in Spanish), Francisco Labastida of the
Institutional Revolutionary Party, (PRI), which has been in power since 1929,
and third-place Cuauhtemoc Cardenas of the Party for the Democratic Revolution
(PRD) -- emphasize rural economic development and spreading the benefits of the
burgeoning trade relationship with the United States. All say the U.S. attitude
toward Mexican migrants needs to improve.

Powerful magnet

And the belief in Mexico that many Mexicans are being mistreated in the United
States has become an important problem in relations between the countries.

Even so, American and Mexican officials say the stronger, better-paying U.S.
economy will remain a powerful magnet for Mexican workers.

By early next year, both countries will have new presidents in place, and that
is prompting talk of the possibility of a sea change in U.S. immigration
standards that would make it easier for at least some Mexican workers to come
and go legally.

Fox has talked of moving toward the free flow of people across the border, such
as within the European Union, where poor Spanish and Portuguese workers used to
flock illegally to prosperous Germany and France.

That's thought to be politically impractical in the United States, but some
influential American observers think that new categories of work visas, such as
are now available to temporary agricultural workers, could be in the offing.

Such hopes have been encouraged by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's
statement earlier this year that the United States needs to acknowledge that its
economy needs those immigrant workers. The AFL-CIO has even proposed that all
undocumented workers in the United States should be granted amnesty.

There are a lot of ways the issue of migration looks different from south of the
Rio Bravo than it does north of the Rio Grande -- the two countries' names for
the same river that makes up much of the border.

Mexican authorities and experts say the increase in undocumented Mexicans
staying in the United States is an unanticipated consequence of tightened U.S.
border control, because those efforts make it more expensive and dangerous to
cross it. More people who used to go home seasonally now stay -- and send
fortheir families.

And the authorities say stricter efforts at control also are forcing Mexicans to
cross into the United States from dangerous desert regions, violating a U.N.
treaty that forbids putting people at risk of death. According to Mexico's
foreign ministry, 996 Mexicans have died trying to get into the United States
since American interdiction efforts were stepped up in 1997.

The economic incentives for a changed immigration relationship are strong on the
U.S. side, too.

"California's agricultural production is the state's most important export, and
it's one-third of the agricultural production of the United States," said
Bustamante, who provided much of the data in the binational study on migration.

"Ninety percent of California's agricultural workers are Mexican, and 60 percent
of them are undocumented," Bustamante said. "A 1984 national agricultural-worker
study by the U.S. Department of Labor concluded that (Mexican workers) are
subsidizing U.S. food prices with their indigence" as a result of their low
wages.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: NEIL JACOBS -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
David Silva's horse sports a campaign sticker for Cuauhtemoc Cardenas during a
Los Angeles press conference Friday concerning Mexico's presidential elections.
Opposition political groups charge Mexico's ruling party with trying to sabotage
efforts to let Mexican- Americans vote in Sunday's election.
[000701 FR 16A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 3, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CEREMONY MEMORIALIZES IMMIGRANTS LA RAZA: NAMES OF DECEASED READ AT EVENT DURING
LATINO CONVENTION IN SAN DIEGO

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


During the six months people in the United States were fixated on the fate of a
single 6-year-old Cuban castaway, more than 200 migrants died along the
U.S.-Mexican border in search of a better life.

Latino activists, kicking off the annual National Council of La Raza Convention,
want the Mexican and Central American immigrants to be forgotten no longer.

In a ceremony Sunday marked by the release of hundreds of doves and the mournful
tones of traditional Mexican music, La Raza remembered the nearly 550 migrants
who have died along the 140-mile California border since 1995.

Coincidentally, it came the first weekend after Elian Gonzalez returned to Cuba
with his father.

Names of the dead were read in chronological order starting with Victor Nicolas
Sanchez, who drowned in the Tijuana River in January 1995, and ending with an
unidentified male migrant who died of heat stress in the Anza Borrego desert on
June 24.

"Hundreds are losing their lives simply trying to make a better life for
themselves and their children," said La Raza President Raul Yzaguirre. "We've
got to turn this into a human issue. We've got to give this a human face."

The picturesque, sun-drenched plaza of the San Diego Convention Center provided
a stark contrast to the grimy deprivation and misery hundreds of migrants are
losing their lives to escape.

For more than an hour as the names were called, strips of paper bearing their
names or the word "Unidentified" were attached to a fence by audience members.

Activists blame an increasingly ineffective border control strategy for the
deaths and are angry with the relatively little news media attention they have
received.

They add that while the United States has the right to control its border, the
policy should not maximize the risks for immigrants by channelingthe foot
traffic to remote and inhospitable areas along the border where they die of a
variety of causes in the harsh desert.

More than 70 of the 200-plus deaths this year have occurred in California, where
the government strategy is known as Operation Gatekeeper.

In Arizona, at least 66 illegal immigrants have died this year making their way
north, the most the Border Patrol has ever recorded in the state. Last year, 40
people died crossing Arizona's border.

There, the illicit border traffic has sparked tensions between immigrants and
residents, particularly after reports of armed ranchers detaining suspected
illegals in southeastern Arizona.

La Raza spokesman Joel Najar said all of the death figures were provided by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Ray Uzeta, director of the Chicano Federation of San Diego, a local sponsor of
the event, said pushing migrants into the mountains and deserts east of San
Diego has resulted in a 400 percent increase in migrant deaths at the California
border from 1995 to 1999.

"Operation Gatekeeper should be renamed Operation Deathwatch," Uzeta said.

The U.S. Border Patrol recently announced it would intensify safety measures in
its search and rescue campaign along the border. The Border Patrol is increasing
rescue training for its agents, including advanced emergency first aid, and the
Mexican government is doubling the size of a task force patrolling the
Arizona-Mexico border.

Both U.S. and Mexican officials also are airing public service announcements on
both sides of the border warning people of the desert's dangers.

But the new policy has been met coolly by Latino advocates who say the only
solution is to disband Operation Gatekeeper.

"No amount of search and rescue can offset a strategy of deliberately putting
migrants in mortal harm's way," said Claudia Smith of the California Rural Legal
Assistance Foundation. "And no amount of warnings are going to counteract the
employer magnet because people desperate for work go where the work is."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 8, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION STATION GETS MONEY TO SAVE CARVINGS

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Kaye Ross, Mercury, News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND


Angel Island Immigration Station will receive $500,000 from the White House
Millennium Council's "Save America's Treasures" program, it was announced
Friday.

U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer said the Angel Island project would focus on preserving
the poetry carved by Asian immigrants into barracks walls at the station. Many
of the carvings have deteriorated to the degree that they are barely legible.

The Angel Island Immigration Station served as the primary West Coast port of
entry for immigrants. Those detained at the station frequently recorded their
experiences in writing.

"In addition to its artistic value, the poetry walls provide an invaluable
record of the California immigrant experience," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 16, 2000 Sunday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

VISAS ARE ISSUE WITH EXCHANGE VISITORS CHINA: YOUTHS SCHEDULED TO ATTEND A BAY
AREA PROGRAM HAD DIFFICULTY SECURING U.S. VISAS IN BEIJING.

BYLINE: DANA HULL, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1066 words


Ten Chinese youths scheduled to arrive in the Bay Area for a popular summer
exchange program have faced difficulties securing their visas at a time when
American consulate officials are concerned about foreign exchange students from
China staying on illegally in the United States.

The case reflects the State Department's fear that illegal immigration from
China -- now thought to be in the tens of thousands every year -- could include
a growing number of high school and junior high students, some as young as 14.
U.S. officials did not cite that fear as a reason these 10 visas were denied,
however.

The U.S. Embassy in Beijing has posted a lengthy article -- "Secondary School
Exchange Programs in the Chinese Context" -- on its Web site, warningthat
coordinators should carefully consider whether it is wise to expand Chinese
student exchange programs at this time.

"When these programs work as they are intended, Chinese students return home
having learned a great deal about the U.S. while having taught Americans about
China," says the article. "Frequently, however, they do not return home, but
seek to remain in the United States indefinitely -- all too often, it is clear
that this was their intent from the very beginning."

The number of Chinese applications for student exchange programs has gone up
dramatically, at a time when illegal immigration is a major focus of U.S.-China
relations.

Thousands of students from all over China now apply for visas for a variety of
exchange programs, because of relaxed Chinese travel controls, aggressive
lobbying by middlemen seeking profits and the desire of parents for their
children to see the world, according to the Web site of the U.S. Embassy in
Beijing. With the increase has come more reports of visa fraud -- leading to
more scrutiny from the U.S. government.

According to coordinators for the exchange program, the visas for the 10
students were initially denied because some of them gave vague answers about
their family's source of income. U.S. officials require proof that parents have
the funds to afford exchange program fees and round-trip air fare.

However, under pressure from the program's organizers and host families,
consulate officials agreed to re-interview six of the 10 students -- whose
program involved home stays with U.S. families -- last week. Program
coordinators said the Chinese students have apparently now been granted their
visas and are scheduled to arrive in the Bay Area on Aug. 1.

News of the visa tangle had come as a shock to Bay Area host families, who had
planned their summer vacations with the Chinese students in mind.

The Chaves family in Los Altos was looking forward to hosting a 14-year-old
Chinese boy who loves basketball and music. Kevin Chaves, also 14, was in turn
scheduled to travel to China next year.

"We've been communicating with the Chinese family over e-mail," said Mario
Chaves, Kevin's father. "Then all of a sudden, this whole thing unraveled. At
first we thought the visa problems were because of the Chinese government. When
we heard it was our own government, it came as a shock."

Many families felt the embassy was squashing their efforts to improve cultural
ties between the two countries, and urged East Bay Congressman Fortney "Pete"
Stark to send a letter of inquiry on their behalf.

"I feel like they have undermined our efforts to build a program in China," said
David Hansen, the president of the Bay Area chapter of Children's International
Summer Villages (CISV). "The consulate has taken a position that does more
damage than the problems it seeks to address. They are throwing the baby out
with the bathwater."

But a staff member at the consular affairs bureau at the State Department in
Washington who is familiar with the case, said the American government has been
more than accommodating to the program's staff, who were unfamiliar with the
intricacies of the visa application process.

Other observers say the embassy is simply exercising caution at a time when
illegal Chinese immigration to the United States is at the forefront. Doris
Meissner, the head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, recently
traveled to Beijing to discuss the delicate issue with Chinese officials.

"I think the embassy is just doing its job," said Ramon Myers, a senior fellow
and East Asian scholar at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. "Some
families use our programs as a stepping stone to bend the law. I'm not surprised
that the government is looking harder at this issue."

Nearly a quarter of a million visas are expected to be granted to Chinese
citizens this year. But the State Department does not separately track the
numbers of Chinese students who visit the United States under the auspices of
student exchange programs.

In May, the Mercury News reported that large numbers of Chinese college students
who attend universities in the United States rarely return home after they
complete their studies, according to a U.S. official in Beijing who asked for
confidentiality. Though some qualify for special visas in high-tech jobs, others
marry Americans or simply disappear into the fabric of American life.

That phenomenon is apparently now spreading to younger and younger students.

CISV has programs in 67 countries, with a chapter based in San Francisco.The
organization regularly recruits students age 11 and older in keeping with the
philosophy of instilling cross-cultural awareness before racism and prejudice
take root. The program recently began trying to foster ties with China.

The organization's student delegates from around the world have arrived in the
Bay Area for a month of activities.

Other exchange programs such as American Field Service report that they've had
no trouble getting visas, and that the application guidelines are very clear.

"Just this past week all the applications we submitted were granted," said Tara
Boyce in an e-mail from AFS's office in Beijing. "We find that if you follow the
guidelines, there is no problem."

Program officials are pleased that six of the Chinese students now appear likely
to come to the Bay Area. But they remain stunned that getting the visas took so
much lobbying.

"It is already too late for the four 11-year olds to participate, as their
program is half over," said Hansen. "How could 11-year-olds be a threat to the
U.S.?"

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
To read more about the U.S. Embassy's policies with regard to exchange programs,
visit www.usembassy-
china.org.cn: english: visa:
schexchange.html

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 17, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHINA YOUTHS MEET DELAYS GETTING VISAS

BYLINE: DANA HULL, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1136 words


Ten Chinese youths scheduled to arrive in the Bay Area for a popular summer
exchange program have faced difficulties securing their visas at a time when
American consulate officials are concerned about foreign exchange students from
China staying on illegally in the United States.

The case reflects the State Department's fear that illegal immigration from
China -- now thought to be in the tens of thousands every year -- could include
a growing number of high school and junior high students, some as young as 14.
U.S. officials did not cite that fear as a reason these 10 visas were denied,
however.

The U.S. Embassy in Beijing has posted a lengthy article -- "Secondary School
Exchange Programs in the Chinese Context" -- on its Web site, warning that
coordinators should carefully consider whether it is wise to expand Chinese
student exchange programs at this time.

"When these programs work as they are intended, Chinese students return home
having learned a great deal about the U.S. while having taught Americans about
China," says the article. "Frequently, however, they do not return home, but
seek to remain in the United States indefinitely -- all too often, it is clear
that this was their intent from the very beginning."

The number of Chinese applications for student exchange programs has gone up
dramatically, at a time when illegal immigration is a major focus of U.S.-China
relations.

Thousands of students from all over China now apply for visas for a variety of
exchange programs, because of relaxed Chinese travel controls, aggressive
lobbying by middlemen seeking profits and the desire of parents for their
children to see the world, according to the Web site of the U.S. Embassy in
Beijing. With the increase have come more reports of visa fraud -- leading to
more scrutiny from the U.S. government.

Vague replies cited

According to coordinators for the exchange program, the visas for the 10
students were initially denied because some of them gave vague answers about
their family's source of income. U.S. officials require proof that parents have
the funds to afford exchange program fees and round-trip air fare.

However, under pressure from the program's organizers and host families,
consulate officials agreed to re-interview six of the 10 students -- whose
program involved home stays with U.S. families -- last week. Program
coordinators said the Chinese students have apparently now been granted their
visas and are scheduled to arrive in the Bay Area on Aug. 1.

News of the visa tangle had come as a shock to Bay Area host families, who had
planned their summer vacations with the Chinese students in mind.

The Chaves family in Los Altos was looking forward to hosting a 14-year-old
Chinese boy who loves basketball and music. Kevin Chaves, also 14, was in turn
scheduled to travel to China next year.

"We've been communicating with the Chinese family over e-mail," said Mario
Chaves, Kevin's father. "Then all of a sudden, this whole thing unraveled. At
first we thought the visa problems were because of the Chinese government. When
we heard it was our own government, it came as a shock."

Many families felt the embassy was squashing their efforts to improve cultural
ties between the two countries, and urged East Bay Congressman Fortney "Pete"
Stark to send a letter of inquiry on their behalf.

"I feel like they have undermined our efforts to build a program in China," said
David Hansen, president of the Bay Area chapter of Children's International
Summer Villages (CISV). "The consulate has taken a position that does more
damage than the problems it seeks to address. They are throwing the baby out
with the bathwater."

But a staff member at the consular affairs bureau at the State Department in
Washington who is familiar with the case said the U.S. government has been more
than accommodating to the program's staff, who were unfamiliar with the
intricacies of the visa application process.

Other observers say the embassy is simply exercising caution at a time when
illegal Chinese immigration to the United States is at the forefront. Doris
Meissner, the head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, recently
traveled to Beijing to discuss the delicate issue with Chinese officials.

"I think the embassy is just doing its job," said Ramon Myers, a senior fellow
and East Asian scholar at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. "Some
families use our programs as a stepping stone to bend the law. I'm not surprised
that the government is looking harder at this issue."

Exact figures unavailable

Nearly a quarter of a million visas are expected to be granted to Chinese
citizens this year. But the State Department does not separately track the
numbers of Chinese students who visit the United States under the auspices of
student exchange programs.

In May, the Mercury News reported that large numbers of Chinese college students
who attend universities in the United States rarely return home after they
complete their studies, according to a U.S. official in Beijing who asked for
confidentiality. Though some qualify for special visas in high-tech jobs, others
marry Americans or simply disappear into the fabric of American life.

That phenomenon is apparently now spreading to younger students.

Last year, 32 visiting teenage students from China broke away from their
sponsors at Los Angeles International Airport moments before they were scheduled
to board a flight for Shanghai. The U.S. Embassy in Beijing also reports that
some Chinese families have paid as much as $28,000 apiece to "visa brokers" to
get their children into the United States, according to the Web site.

CISV has programs in 67 countries, with a chapter based in San Francisco. The
organization regularly recruits students age 11 and older in keeping with the
philosophy of instilling cross-cultural awareness before racism and prejudice
take root. The program recently began trying to foster ties with China.

The organization's student delegates from around the world have arrived in the
Bay Area for a month of activities.

Other exchange programs such as American Field Service report that they've had
no trouble getting visas, and that the application guidelines are very clear.

"Just this past week all the applications we submitted were granted," said Tara
Boyce in an e-mail from the AFS office in Beijing. "We find that if you follow
the guidelines, there is no problem."

Program officials are pleased that six of the Chinese students now appear likely
to come to the Bay Area. But they remain stunned that getting the visas took so
much lobbying.

"It is already too late for the four 11-year olds to participate, as their
program is half over," said Hansen. "How could 11-year-olds be a threat to the
U.S.?"

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: To read more about the U.S. Embassy's policies with regard to exchange
programs, visit www.usembassy-china.org.cn: english: visa: schexchange.html

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 4, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOOST IN TECH VISAS BACKED FOREIGN WORKERS: REPUBLICANS GRAMM AND LOTT WOULD
NEARLY DOUBLE ANNUAL ALLOTMENT TO 200,000.

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Key Republicans in the U.S. Senate have introduced legislation to again increase
the number of visas available for high-tech foreign workers, after a boost in
the program this year failed to keep up with demand.

The proposal by Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, would nearly double the annual
allotment of so-called H-1B visas to 200,000 for the next three years. The limit
on visas had already been increased from 65,000 to 115,000, but the new level
was reached on June 15 -- more than three months before the end of the current
fiscal year.

The legislation has the backing of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.,
and comes at a time when Republicans and Democrats are fighting to be viewed as
the part of the high-tech industry. Gramm touted his legislation during a news
conference Tuesday by members of the newly created Senate Republican High-Tech
Task Force.

"They are not taking jobs away from Americans," Gramm said of foreigners who
work in this country under the H-1B program. "They are, in fact, with their
technological know-how, helping us create more jobs, more growth, more
opportunity here."

But the legislation's chances this year are questionable. Congress leaves at the
end of the week for a monthlong recess, then adjourns for the year at the end of
October, leaving little time to move the bill through the Senate and House of
Representatives. The increase Congress passed in 1998 was pushed hard by the
high-tech industry from the start of the year and required intense negotiations
with the White House, which wanted assurances that companies would not pass over
qualified Americans for foreign workers.

The high-tech industry already has expended a lot of political energy this year
in pushing for passage of legislation to limit liability for damages that might
results from the year 2000 computer problem, a loosening of export restrictions
on computers and an extension of the research and development tax credit.

"We need some time to assess whether it's realistic to try to raise the issue
again this year. The crisis is there, but the political reality of whether it's
helpful or harmful to make a big push is not yet clear," said Mary Dee Beall,
government affairs manager for Hewlett-Packard Co. "It's something we'd really
like to see happen and we're enthusiastic about it, but a little bit cautious."

The expansion of the program in 1998 increased the annual number of visas to
115,000 in 1999 and 2000, then to 107,500 in 2001 before reverting back to the
65,000 level in 2002.

Gramm's bill would increase the level to 200,000 visas yearly in 2000, 2001 and
2002, before dropping down to 65,000 in 2003.

"With record low unemployment, many U.S. companies have been forced to slow
their expansion, or cancel projects, and may be forced to move their operations
overseas because of an inability to find qualified individuals to fill job
vacancies," Gramm said when he introduced his bill last week. "We will achieve
our full economic potential only if we ensure that high-technology companies can
find and hire people whose unique qualifications and specialized skills are
critical to America's future success."

In addition, Gramm would exempt from that cap visas granted to foreigners with a
master's degree or higher in a specialty related to their employment and who
will be paid at least $60,000 a year, as well as any foreigner granted a visa to
work for a college or university. To qualify for an H-1B visa, a person must
currently have at least a bachelor's degree.

Beall said the exemption for foreigners with a master's degree would be helpful
to HP, which requires a master's degree or higher in order to be hired using an
H-1B visa.

But critics, including an organization representing American engineers and
computer programmers, say there is no shortage of high-tech workers and the
companies prefer to hire foreigners because they are paid less and beholden to
the companies that obtain the visas. The White House used a veto threat last
year to insert provisions into the increase to address those complaints -- among
them a $500 fee for each visa to fund training and scholarship programs for
American students and workers.

Those provisions would remain under Gramm's legislation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Jim Puzzanghera at (202) 383-6043 or jpuzzanghera@sjmercury.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: [no credit]
Gramm
[990804 BU 1C]
PHOTO: [no credit]
Lott
[990804 BU 1C]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 10, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH VISA CAP SHOULD NOT RISE YET PROBLEMS WITH DOCUMENTATION AND FRAUD
MUST BE FIXED FIRST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 741 words


LESS than a year after Congress hoisted the number of foreign high-tech workers
eligible to work in America, members of both parties want to do it again. The
efforts are premature, however real the shortage of high-tech engineers and
programmers may be.

Texas Sen. Phil Gramm, the principal sponsor of the Republican bill, would blow
open the ceiling, awarding visas as profligately as his party would dispense tax
cuts. His bill would permanently almost double, to 200,000, the number of visas
for skilled workers, and exempt anyone with a graduate degree, earning at least
$60,000, from the annual limit.

San Jose Democrat Zoe Lofgren is pushing a more interesting and innovate
approach, one that deserves study. She would grant a five-year visa to any
foreigner graduating from a U.S. university with at least a bachelor's degree in
a high-tech major and a job lined up. It too would have to pay a minimum of
$60,000. In 1996, the year Lofgren cited, 24,000 foreigners received degreesin
America in the half-dozen academic fields, including physics and computer
science, specified in the legislation.

Both bills would address a problem Congress assumed it had alleviated, if not
solved, last year, when it temporarily raised the cap on visas for skilled
workers from 65,000 to 115,000 per year. But instead of meeting the demand, the
new limit on so-called H-1B visas was reached in June, four months before the
end of the federal fiscal year.

At that point, there were 42,000 more visa applications pending. They'll have to
wait until October, when the next round begins for the maximum six-year visas.

H-1B covers all visas for skilled workers -- those with at least a bachelor's
degree. Though it represents a fraction of 1 percent of U.S. workers, it's a
critical segment for high tech, especially in Silicon Valley, where companies
report an unmet need for programmers and engineers.

The extent of the shortage is hotly contested. There's no question that colleges
haven't been producing enough grads to meet the surging demand for the computer
industry. The number of college graduates in high-tech majors actually dropped 5
percent from 1990 to 1996.

Organizations representing engineers and programmers claim that companies are
exploiting young programmers from abroad instead of retraining older,
experienced workers; however, they supply only anecdotal evidence to support
their claims.

Before it bumps up the H-1 B program, Congress needs to put checks in place and
obtain harder numbers. Last year's law required the Labor Department to have
some companies attest that they didn't displace American workers in hiring
foreign workers. It also called for a National Research Council study of the
information-technology job market. The regulations aren't in force, and the
study has yet to be done.

In congressional testimony last week, even a proponent of higher limits, the
president of the American Council on International Personnel, said that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's record-keeping has been poor, and its
visa numbers may be inflated. In addition, there have been indications that
sponsors have used visas to bring over unqualified friends and relatives. A
recent INS investigation of visas issued in Madras, India, found that a fifth
were fraudulent, and the college degrees on nearly half of the applications
couldn't be verified.

Fraud wouldn't be an issue under Lofgren's bill, because it would be easy to
validate attendance at U.S. colleges. By requiring a competitively high minimum
salary for all graduates with visas, her bill responds to criticism that foreign
workers suppress the pay for American counterparts.

Lofgren argues that foreign students should be given priority for short-term
jobs, so that Americans can benefit from an education subsidized by public
dollars and private donations. It's in America's economic advantage to utilize
that brain power, she says.

Thousands of those on the waiting list for H-1B visas are recent grads of U.S.
colleges. By creating a new visa category -- Tech or "T" -- Lofgren's bill
potentially would free up slots for thousands of other foreign workers.

But that's all the more reason to get the poorly managed H-1B program
straightened out first, as required under last year's law. Then, when the need
is documented and fraud eliminated, Congress should turn to the Lofgren's bill.
It appears to have merit.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: JIM HUMMEL - MERCURY NEWS

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 19, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MCCAIN JOINS IN VISA 'FRENZY' TECH WORKERS: GOP CANDIDATE WOULD BOOST ANNUAL
LIMIT TO 175,000.

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News Political Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 969 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


U.S. Sen. John McCain of Arizona plans to introduce a bill next month to
significantly increase the number of visas U.S. companies can use to hire highly
skilled foreign workers.

The Republican presidential hopeful, in California on a 12-day campaign swing,
joins a slew of other lawmakers in what one industry lobbyist dubbed a "frenzy"
to respond to the high-tech industry's call for relaxing immigration rules to
offset worker shortages.

Only last year after intense lobbying, Congress nearly doubled the annual
allotment of so-called H-1B visas, but the visas still ran out by summer -- more
than three months before the end of this fiscal year.

Within the past month, three other measures, including one by Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
D-San Jose, have been introduced in Congress to address what's become one of the
high-tech industry's most pressing issues.

Under McCain's proposal, which he plans to announce today in a speech to the
Commonwealth Club in San Francisco, the number of H-1B visas would increase to
at least 175,000 annually for an unlimited time. Current law sets the limit at
115,000, but ratchets it down to 65,000 in 2002.

The McCain legislation, which he outlined in an interview Wednesday with the
Mercury News, would also allow the U.S. secretary of labor to raise the cap if
worker shortages still exist.

"On an annual basis you determine how many jobs you need so you're not caught
short like you are this year, or you don't realize the fears of labor and others
that you're now depriving American citizens of these jobs," he said.

Net tax ban backed

In Orange County on Tuesday, McCain also called for a permanent ban on Internet
taxation, citing a study showing that sales taxes have increased during the
first year of the current three-year moratorium. McCain said he would consider
repealing that ban if in future years there is evidence that sales tax revenues
are harmed by electronic commerce. "I'd much rather do that than say, 'OK, let's
tax it,' and find out that we choked this baby in the crib," he said.

McCain, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, has made campaign finance
reform a centerpiece of his campaign and criticized his colleagues for bending
legislation to benefit big campaign contributors. Setting the stage for a
Sacramento event next week, McCain said the California system is "out of
control." "Look at what Gov. (Gray) Davis has raised in a very shortperiod of
time, still three years away from his re-election," said McCain. Including the
Legislature, he added, "Those guys are getting like Washington, D.C."

Asked why he shouldn't be criticized for pandering by announcing a major
high-tech initiative before his own planned Silicon Valley fundraiser, McCain
said, "As long as I'm raising it in $1,000 contribution levels, I don't think
there is anything wrong with it." He added, "There is a difference between a
group of $1,000 contributions and a seven-figure donation."

An analysis of campaign contributions done for the Mercury News by the
non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics showed that McCain raised only
$7,500 from the high-tech industry in the Bay Area in the first half of the
year.

McCain said he will meet with Silicon Valley entrepreneur Ron Unz on this visit
and is considering endorsing Unz's proposed initiative to impose limits on
campaign contributions to state officeholders.

On Wednesday, industry representatives generally applauded McCain's efforts to
expand the H-1B visa program, though some suggested that provisions in other
bills might be more useful.

Earlier this month, for example, Lofgren proposed a new category of visa that
would allow an unlimited number of foreign graduates of American universities to
work in the country for up to five years. Currently, H-1B visa holders can stay
three years with a possibility of renewal for another three years.

McCain puts no time limit on the increased visa allotments, but he also provides
no exemptions for foreign students graduating from American universities,
meaning those students would still have to apply for H-1B visas.

"It doesn't make sense to have one lump category with everybody chasing the same
visas," said Jenifer Eisen, Intel Corp.'s manager of human resources policy.

While Eisen said she welcomed the attention on an important issue, she added,
"I've been working on this for 12 years, and I've never seen such a frenzy."

The week before Lofgren introduced her bill, Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and Rep.
David Dreier, R-Covina, introduced similar bills to increase the annual visa
limit to 200,000 annually over the next three years. They would exempt
foreigners with at least a master's degree in a specialty related to their
employment from needing H-1B visas. Like Lofgren's bill, the worker would have
to be paid at least $60,000 a year to appease critics who claim foreign labor
often comes cheaper and is driving down salaries.

Related issues

"It think it's all artificial, depending where you are. That $60,000 in Silicon
Valley is a low-paying job." McCain said. "But are they taking away American
jobs? There is clearly no indication."

McCain contends his proposal is more comprehensive than other pending
legislation. In addition to lifting the cap, he is proposing that the
$500-per-visa fee companies pay to the U.S. Department of Labor to retrain U.S.
workers be sent to the states. He also calls for grants to boost elementary
school teacher training in math and science, high school internships and college
scholarships.

Renee Winsky, a vice president with the Information Technology Association of
America, said she was encouraged that McCain had joined the issue. "He's
historically shown, not only does he get legislation introduced, he gets it
enacted as well."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5574.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no credit]
McCain
[990819 BU 1C]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 24, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COLLECTING ON A PROMISE ELDERLY MIGRANT WORKERS SAY MEXICO OWES THEM BACK PAY

BYLINE: RICARDO SANDOVAL, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: IRAPUATO, Mexico


IN 1950, Miguel Ramirez was partially blinded by an olive branch that snapped by
his right eye. Bandaged and in pain, he returned to work in a California orchard
a few days later.

"If you got sick or hurt, you were sent home," explained Ramirez, now 85.

The salve should have been a small nest egg from his U.S. labors: the 10 percent
of his pay that was legally deducted by his employer and remitted to the Mexican
government, partly as an incentive for workers like him to go home.

Ramirez worked on California fruit farms and in Texas cotton fields off and on
for a decade. But once he was back in Mexico, he got fuzzy answers from bankers
instead of the money, as did most of the 5 million other Mexicans who toiled in
that official guest-worker program between 1942 and 1964.

15,000 fighting for their money

Most forgot about the money, figuring it was probably kept by the government as
a work fee or tax, and the fund long since has disappeared. But now Ramirez and
15,000 other old and frail former braceros -- "strong arms," in Spanish --are
fighting for hundreds of millions of dollars in back pay and interest from the
Mexican government.

"There was no sympathy from the bosses. There was no 'thank you' for our hard
work," Ramirez said amid shouts of agreement from about 500 former braceros who
gathered last week for a protest in the main plaza here in the heart of Mexico's
farm belt, where the journey to the United States began for many of them in the
1940s and 1950s.

The program was begun by the U.S. and Mexican governments to fill the wartime
labor shortage in the United States. Mexican workers signed up, got physicals
from U.S. doctors and went off to work for U.S. farms, railroads and factories.

Afterward, perhaps one out of every 100 braceros got money from the banks, said
Gregorio Cuadro, a social worker with the Union of Farmworkers, which is helping
the braceros with their claims.

"These workers helped the United States in a time of crisis, and they made
Mexico a richer nation," said Carlota Botey, a former Mexican farm program
official who 25 years ago helped investigate the fate of the braceros' payroll
deductions. "For all their hard work, they have very little except memories of
the places they saw and of the tough working conditions. They deserve some money
that was promised to them."

Government investigating

The Mexican government so far has been mum, except to say in a statement that it
is investigating how much money was received from U.S. businesses, during what
period and what happened to it. Next month, organizers of the new bracero
movement are to meet with Mexican government officials and executives of
Mexico's Rural Bank, the government-run successor to three farm banks that once
held bracero funds.

Botey fears the banks and corrupt government officials squandered the money.

"Some may have seen the money as intended for local rural development," Botey
said. "Some big cotton farmers in (northern Mexico) told me their families got
their start with money from this fund. They said the idea was to create jobs for
the workers returning from the United States. But the money was not supposed to
help wealthy business people."

Cuadro says the Mexican government also owes millions of pesos in retirement
pensions to the braceros for the time they worked in the United States. The
Union of Farmworkers also would like to see the United States help pay
retirement benefits to the braceros, who often had Social Security taxes
deducted from their pay, but rarely got Social Security cards.

The bracero program ended after farm accidents killed and maimed some workers
and reports of their being physically abused by farmers in Texas and California
triggered U.S. congressional investigations. The woes of the braceros also moved
Cesar Chavez to found United Farm Workers of America and influenced the U.S.
Chicano rights movement in the 1960s.

"This is a priority project for us," said Ventura Gutierrez, a farm workers
organizer from California who is advising the Mexican bracero movement. "Most of
these men are old, beyond their 70s, and many have told me they want to live
long enough to see braceros get the money that belongs to them and some respect
for what they did."

Many in the movement are young people like Gutierrez who over the years have
gathered evidence of individual workers' claims. Gutierrez himself found pay
stubs showing the 10 percent deduction among papers saved by his dead
grandfather.

"It was clear he thought they'd one day get that money," he said.

Widows rally, too

Others gathered on the Irapuato square were aging widows of former braceros --
women clutching work cards bearing their husbands' names and photographs of them
as strapping young men in the 1940s.

"I have many taloncitos (pay stubs) that my husband told me were important,"
said Julia Lara Vasquez, 81, whose husband worked the cotton fields of Texas in
the early 1950s.

Lara slowly pulled out the old laminated work card and neatly foldedoriginal
work contract for Agustin, who died three years ago.

"I never thought this would come to anything," she said. "But if it can help me
and our family, I will fight in his honor."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Depth:
THE AMERICAS

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: SERGIO DORANTES -- KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
Former braceros Eliseo Salazar, above left, Franciso Perez and Genaro Toledo
show their cards that allowed them into the United States under an official
guest-worker program between 1942 and 1964.
[990824 FR 15A]
PHOTO: SERGIO DORANTES -- KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
At left, widow Consuelo Delgado, 70, and her granddaughter join in the braceros'
protest in Irapuato, Mexico.
[990824 FR 15A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 23, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH-WORKER SHORTAGE IS PROBED AT HEARINGS CREATIVE HIRING RAISES EYEBROWS

BYLINE: K. OANH HA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 784 words


High-tech companies have become so creative in finding ways to fill highly
technical jobs despite a labor shortage that they may have undermined their case
for allowing more foreign workers into the country.

At least that's what some members of the National Research Council's Committee
on Workforce Issues in Information Technology began to think after the first of
three days of hearings that started Wednesday in Santa Clara.

The 15-member committee is gathering information on the much discussed labor
shortage and will report to Congress next fall. It is charged with answering
whether there's a high-tech labor shortage, how critical it is and how necessary
are government policies, such as the H-1B visas that allow highly skilled
foreign workers to enter the country to fill the jobs.

On Wednesday, some committee members were underwhelmed with the high-tech
industry's case for the H-1B visas. "It's important to them but it's not very
important to them," said Alan Merten, the chairman of the committee, after the
day-long panel discussions. "It's a very small portion of their workforce, and
it's not going to make or break them."

Committee members afterward said they were especially impressed by the
innovative strategies that industry representatives described to find
high-skilled tech workers, from posting resumes on the Internet to hiring and
training workers who don't have traditional computer science backgrounds to
stock and retention bonuses.

"There's no evidence in the data to think there's a shortage," said Eileen
Appelbaum, a committee member and research director at the Economic Policy
Institute after listening to the testimony. "There's reason to think that supply
is responsive to the demand because companies are being more creative and
flexible in finding and keeping workers."

The committee, which is touring the country, will hear from economists,
academics, industry and the public. The public is also invited to open hearings
today and Friday from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Biltmore Hotel in Santa Clara and can
find more information at (www.itworkforce
.org).

Among those appearing before the committee were economists representing Silicon
Valley and California as well as industry representatives from Intel Corp.,
PeopleSoft, Sun Microsystems Inc. and Gymboree.

Panelists presented opposing viewpoints on the workforce shortage, which many
Silicon Valley companies point to in rallying Congress to approve more H-1B
visas. Roughly 115,000 high-tech workers come to the United States each year
under the H-1B program.

Mary Patino, representing Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, said the worker
shortage, most noticeable in the engineering and software programming sectors,
is an "impediment to the high-tech industry." Adding to the problem is the lack
of awareness and interest among middle and high school students in high tech
fields. Patino and several others said that the growth of electronic commerce
will create a spiraling demand for engineers and software programmers.

About 69 percent of Silicon Valley's high-tech jobs are filled by local
residents. The remaining positions are filled by outside recruits, commuters or
are left vacant, according to Joint Venture. The current workforce gap is put at
between 31 percent and 37 percent of the area's high-tech industry and is
projected to grow to 200,000 jobs by the year 2010.

The situation may contribute to high-tech firms leaving the area for other
regions in the country, said Patino. "Businesses leave not because of venture
capital but human capital."

Silicon Valley may be facing a special set of obstacles that the rest of the
region isn't: the soaring cost of living and the lack of an infrastructure that
could really support a substantial increase in workers.

"The notion that Silicon Valley can add an additional 50,000 workers is a
pipedream," said Stanford Professor Roger Noll, also a board member on the CCST.
"The politics of local governments prevents that."

Academics on the California Council on Science and Technology, presented a more
optimistic perspective. These panelists pointed to the growth of graduates with
advanced degrees and a slowdown in the decline of graduates with bachelor's
degrees across the state.

What all seemed to agree on is the importance of good, educational systems that
would funnel well-educated graduates into the workforce. "There is a huge
concern about the digital divide at the level of K-12 education," said Cecilia
Conrad, a professor of economics at Pomona College in Southern California and
panelist member. "We have to get kids interested and prepared to pursue
high-tech jobs. This is the long-term solution."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 22, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BEHIND THE BRAINPOWER TECH WORKERS ON VISAS HELP FUEL SILICON VALLEY INNOVATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 522 words


AS the head of a local staffing and services business that engages technical
professionals on H-1B visas, I felt compelled to respond to your recent article,
"High tech's imported brainpower" (Page 1A, Jan. 16).

Frankly, the article's verbiage ("the 'bodies' return to the bodyshop") gave
cause to believe I was reading some B-grade sci/fi script. What happened to the
issue of brainpower?

Access to technical brainpower has been and is a critical issue for Bay Area
companies, whose combined voices have resulted in legislation enabling broader
participation. This is a global market with global players and represents a huge
opportunity for local companies to increase business in the exploding IT arena.
The "bodies" to which you refer help create the intellectual property that fuels
our local companies. These people have earned technical degrees and worked hard
in pursuit of their interests. Without them, we would be less able to compete on
the world stage and sorely behind the power curve in technical innovation. Their
brains were to have been the subject of your article; their bodies are simply a
necessary attachment.

Say what you will about the staffing business and the "small offices on side
streets off exhaust-choked Mahatma Gandhi Road." You don't insult me, but you
stereotype and tarnish the image of many bright and talented people who bring
much value to our thriving economy.

Dave Sornson
President, iBongo, Inc.
Cupertino
IN her recent article on Indians in the Silicon Valley, it seems that Sara
Lubman has violated one of the key rules of good reporting. When she writes
about Indian recruits she needs to stay away from describing an individual
lifestyle as if it were universal among the H-1B community. Perhaps the workers
she profiled, Sudhir Wath and his friends, choose to live in a spartan
atmosphere, or perhaps they have arrived recently and haven't had time to invest
in any furniture. But it is irresponsible on her part to suggest that this is
the norm among Indian workers.

At the end of the article she talks about how new hires stick together, cook
communally, and make rice in their "narrow kitchens." They "pile" into cars and
visit shops which have "sprouted" on the Peninsula. Is it me, or do the verbs
here suggest rats, weeds and vermin? It seems to me that such articles, which
outline ethnic communities as somehow different, strange and other, are
precisely the reason for growing prejudice and suspicion.

Lubman would have done well to research her topic more extensively rather than
relying on one programmer and his roommates to form an idea of the entire
community's living conditions and outlook. She would also have been welladvised
to look at the positive aspects of the H-1B community, including how close-knit
they are, how well they adjust to their new environments, how they are always
available to help each other out, taking in newcomers and sharing all of their
resources, including homes and cars. Focusing on the quality of their sleeping
bags or the bareness of their rooms is neither newsworthy nor relevant.

Jyothi Bathina
Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Contract workers Satish Rane, above left, Sudhir Wath and Bippin Karunakaran
receive welcoming gifts from TekEdge Corp. benefits administrator Christine
Farkas.
[000122 ED 7B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 9, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP BACKS MORE VISAS SENATE REPUBLICANS TO PROPOSE AN ANNUAL CAP OF 195,000

BYLINE: DAVID L. WILSON, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Senate Republicans, led by Utah's Orrin Hatch, are expected to introduce
legislation today to once again increase the number of visas available for
high-tech foreign workers. A similar increase that went into effect last year
isn't meeting the voracious demand.

The cap on what are known as H-1B temporary visas -- which allow foreign workers
who have special technical skills to fill jobs in the United States -- was
increased from 65,000 to 115,000 in fiscal year 1999. The same cap applies
during the current fiscal year, which began in October.

However, this year's allocation is almost used up, and high-tech leaders are
clamoring for more. The Hatch proposal would temporarily increase that cap to
195,000 annually for three years.

The high-tech industry says it can't find enough American workers to fill
technical jobs in a tight job market. Labor groups say U.S. corporations are
just trying to hire cheaper, less experienced workers from overseas. They point
out that under the visa program, it's difficult for workers to change employers,
which effectively means the companies don't have to worry about their skilled
workers getting picked off by another company or demanding raises.

The industry claims, however, that it actually costs more to fill a job through
an H-1B visa and that they hire foreign workers only when U.S. workers are
unavailable.

The Hatch bill is similar to legislation introduced in August providing acap of
200,000 workers a year for three years. That bill died, and the chances of this
bill becoming law are considered slim.

Congressional action in election years is problematic at best. The poisonous
atmosphere on Capitol Hill, combined with the strained relationship between the
White House and members of Congress, suggest that little of import will happen
over the next 12 months.

The previous increase was the result of a long-running battle with the White
House, which was worried about costing any American a job, an issue that will
likely become more sensitive as November looms.

Democrats have recently suggested that it's possible, given the extremely low
unemployment rate, that a modest adjustment in the cap would be tolerable to
President Clinton. But opposing the full increase proposed by Hatch could offer
the White House the chance to score points with organized labor.

In addition, allegations of fraud in the H-1B visa program will make it harder
for proponents to ask for more visas. Recently, for example, Berkeley landlord
Lakireddy Bali Reddy and his son Vijay Kumar Lakireddy were indicted for
allegedly importing undocumented workers into the United States on fraudulent
visas under the program.

CHART: ASSOCIATED PRESS
High-tech demand
Source: American Electronics Association, Congressional staff

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 15, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL WOULD DOUBLE CAPS ON H-1B VISAS HOUSE WILL TRY AGAIN TODAY ON
FOREIGN-WORKER LIMITS

BYLINE: DAVID L. WILSON, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Some members of the House will try again today with a bill to increase the
number of visas available for foreign workers with high-tech skills.

An increase that went into effect last year hasn't met demand, and a similar
bill to boost the number of visas available died last summer.

The cap on what are known as H-1B temporary visas -- designed to allow
employment in the United States of foreign workers with special technical
abilities -- rose from 65,000 to 115,000 in 1999, but all the available visas
had been handed out by June, almost four months before the end of the fiscal
year. This latest proposal to be introduced today would temporarily increase the
cap to 200,000 annually for three years. The Senate is already considering a
bill introduced last month that would raise that cap to 195,000 during the same
period.

"The high-tech industry faces an urgent shortage of workers with backgrounds in
math, science and engineering, and increasing the number of qualified people who
can come into the United States is an excellent way to address this need
immediately," said Laura Ipsen, director of government relations for networking
giant Cisco Systems Inc.

Opposed by labor

But labor groups say U.S. corporations want to hire cheaper, less-experienced
workers from overseas, and point out that under the visas, it's very difficult
for workers to change employers. They charge that means the companies don't have
to worry about their skilled workers getting picked off by another company or
demanding raises.

The high-tech industry claims, however, that it actually costs companies more to
fill a job through an H-1B visa, and that it only turns to such methods when
U.S. workers are unavailable.

"Over the long term, Cisco is committed to increasing the pool of high-tech
workers by expanding educational opportunities. But right now, this legislation
would help sustain the growth of the technology industry and theU.S. economy,
providing more jobs for Americans," Ipsen said. Both the House and Senate bills
are similar to legislation introduced last August providing a cap of 200,000
over three years. That bill died, and insiders say the chances of either of
these measures becoming law are not good.

The previous increase was the result of a long-running battle with the White
House, which was worried about costing any American a job, an issue that will
likely become an ever more sensitive issue as the November election looms.
Sources with ties to the White House have recently suggested that it's possible,
given the extremely low unemployment rate, that a modest adjustment in the cap
would be tolerable. But nearly doubling the cap, as the bills propose, is likely
to be viewed as an opportunity by the White House to score points with labor by
opposing such a substantial increase.

Bipartisan support

Even so, the House bill has picked up sponsors from both sides of the aisle,
including Adam Smith, a Washington Democrat, and Thomas M. Davis, a Virginia
Republican. Two California legislators have also signed on: San Jose Democrat
Zoe Lofgren and David Dreier, a Republican from Southern California.

"The reality of the Information Age is that prosperity is fueled by brainpower
and people, not steel and machines. Our technology boom has created an
unprecedented demand for highly skilled workers," said Dreier. "In the short
term, we cannot let the technology labor shortage undermine our economic boom."

Lofgren agreed, saying, "Because this is a very carefully crafted measure, it
will have very broad bipartisan support."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 1, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MODEST H-1B PLAN WON'T HELP

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 272 words


YOUR editorial headlined "H-1B visa cap needs to rise, but cautiously for now"
(Opinion, March 20) proposes an inadequate solution for expanding the H-1B visa
program to help recruit the highly educated workers now in high demand, in short
supply and so necessary for the continued vibrant growth of the high-tech
industry.

While legislation in Congress to increase the H-1B visa cap to 160,000, as
proposed by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Tex., represents a step in the right direction,
it would be too tiny a step and would not meet the demand that currently exists.
Of the 115,000 visas issued this year, somewhere between 35,000 and 40,000 visas
were approved last year and rolled over into this year's allocation. There could
be upward of 80,000 visas approved this year and rolled over into the next year.
If the cap is set at 160,000, half will be used before the year begins.

The H-1B levels set in the Dreier/Lofgren bill (195,000) and the Senate's
Hatch/Abraham/Feinstein proposal (200,000) -- bills which you did not endorse --
are far more realistic targets for the H-1B visa cap, given the the employment
growth occurring in the high-tech industry.

High-tech companies need access to the best and brightest individuals who have
been and will continue to be the lifeblood of the industry. The Dreier/Lofgren
and Hatch/Abraham/Feinstein bills will ensure that the high-tech industry will
have access to those workers who have helped make the industry the nation's
prime economic engine and the world's model for innovation.

Thom Stohler
Director, workforce policy
American Electronics Association
Santa Clara

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 13, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE PANEL OKS VISA BILL

BYLINE: Compiled from reports by the Associated Press, Bloomberg News, and
Reuters.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 152 words


A key House subcommittee Wednesday approved legislation that potentially could
provide an unlimited number of visas for foreigners with prized skills, such as
computer programmers and electrical engineers. The legislation was adopted by
voice vote by the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee. It was authored by
the panel's chairman, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who described his measure as a
balanced approach benefiting "both American high-tech companies and American
high-tech workers."

But the bill, which could permit an unlimited number of H-1B visas over the next
three years, is receiving a cold shoulder from high-tech interests that have
been pressing Congress for help in dealing with a tight labor market. The
industry contends Smith's measure is larded with anti-business provisions and
that it would be unlikely to provide any extra H-1B visas, which now are capped
at 115,000 annually.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tech Ticker

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 14, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

7 MIGRANTS DIE IN SEALED TRAIN CARS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 93 words


Seven people were found dead after authorities opened two sealed train cars
packed with illegal workers hoping to reach the United States. At least two died
of suffocation in the two cars carrying 200 people and 46 were hospitalized,
officials said.

The migrants, who had left Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala in search of
work, were discovered Wednesday while en route through Mexico. Immigration
authorities intercepted a train traveling from the southern Gulf Coast state of
Tabasco, said a representative of the National Migration Institute.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 12, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON PUSHES HIGHER VISA CAP 200,000: LAWMAKER SAYS 2 ADD-INS COULD HURT
BILL'S CHANCE FOR PASSAGE.

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration Thursday proposed increasing to 200,000 the annual
number of visas for foreign high-tech workers, possibly complicating efforts by
Congress to approve a major increase in the so-called H-1B visas this month.

The administration plan joins three other proposals in Congress, all seeking to
raise the cap on the visas to deal with what high-tech industry officials say is
a shortage of qualified U.S. workers. In 1998, Congress boosted the number of
H-1B visas to 115,000 a year, but that number is slated to decrease to 107,500
in 2001 and revert to the 1998 level of 65,000 the following year. H-1B visas
have been in such demand, particularly among high-tech companies, that in March
the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced it had run out of the visas
-- six months before the end of the current fiscal year.

That led to calls for another increase in the annual allotment. Three bills were
proposed in Congress earlier this year and lawmakers have been pushing to get an
increase approved this spring.

The White House plan released Thursday comes as a House of Representatives
committee was fine-tuning one of the bills this week, and could throw a monkey
wrench into the process, warned Rep. David Dreier, R-Covina, a key sponsor of
one of the visa bills and a top Republican in the House. Part of the problem,
Dreier said, is that the White House plan would lump in two unrelatedimmigration
issues.

As part of its H-1B visa proposal, the administration also wants to allow
illegal immigrants who entered the United States before 1986 to apply to become
U.S. citizens, moving up the date from 1972.

Amnesty proposal

It also wants to extend a current immigration amnesty provision for Nicaraguans
and Cubans to certain foreign nationals of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and
Haiti. The issues are the subject of separate bills now pending in Congress, but
the White House "strongly supports" the inclusion of the legislation in any bill
increasing the number of H-1B visas.

"As we consider allowing more foreign temporary workers into this country to
meet the needs of our high-tech industry, it is critical that we take this
opportunity to correct two longstanding injustices currently affecting many
immigrants already in our country," Gene Sperling, director of the president's
National Economic Council, wrote in a letter Thursday to House Judiciary
Chairman Henry Hyde, R-Ill. The letter spelled out the president's H-1B visa
proposal.

The Judiciary Committee worked this week on one of the H-1B visa bills pending
in Congress, sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas. It would remove the annual
cap for the next three years in exchange for several requirements that companies
would have to meet before receiving additional visas. Some of those provisions
the industry had strongly objected to, such as requiring that a company increase
its number of American workers before it could receive new visas for foreigners,
were removed by the committee. The committee is to vote on the final bill next
week.

The high-tech industry favors the bill proposed by Dreier, which is co-sponsored
by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and a similar bill in the Senate sponsored by
Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. The Dreier-Lofgren proposal boosts the annual number
of visas to 200,000 from 2001 to 2003 and lacks some of the burdensome
requirements on industry contained in the Smith bill. The Hatch legislation
increases the annual number of visas to 195,000 for the same period.

Dreier said Thursday that the White House should have signed on to the
bipartisan bill he and Lofgren crafted.

"This plays a role in complicating things . . . now we have to deal with these
extraneous issues," he said of the White House's inclusion of the other
immigration issues. "These things are all important. They're issues that need to
be addressed, but not in this context."

Fee increase

The White House also proposed increasing the current fee for each visa from $500
to $2,000 for most companies, with the additional money going to college
scholarships and worker retraining. The Smith and Dreier-Lofgren bills want to
boost the fee to $1,000, while the Hatch bill keeps the current $500 fee.

"Industry is not enthusiastic about the higher fees in the White House bill,"
said Mary Dee Beall, government affairs manager for Hewlett-Packard Co. and an
industry expert on H-1B visas. She said it was unclear how the other immigration
issues would impact the legislation.

"It's good to see where the administration is (on the H-1B visa issue) and where
they're going to try to lead us, and the fact is, we're not terribly far apart,"
she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 18, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B MIRED IN POLITICS ALL AGREE ON THE NEED, CAN'T GET TOGETHER ON THE SOLUTION

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 902 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton and nearly everyone in Congress agree with Silicon Valley that
there's a desperate need for significantly more high-tech foreign workers during
the next three years. But expanding the H-1B visa program once again has become
entangled in politics and parliamentaryprocedure that threaten to derail
fast-track approval this spring.

The same scenario in 1998 left an expansion of the program dangling for months
until it was approved at the last minute before Congress adjourned for the year.
This time, two complications have surfaced: the need not to offend a key
Republican subcommittee chairman and attempts by Democrats to include two
controversial immigration proposals with the visa legislation.

It was all on display here Wednesday as the House Judiciary Committee voted
largely along party lines, 18-11, to approve a bill by Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, that would allow an unlimited number of H-1B visas between 2001 and
2002.

While that would seem like a major improvement over the current annual cap of
115,000 such visas, the high-tech industry dislikes Smith's bill because it ties
the additional visas to a number of requirements that industry executives feel
would be burdensome. Among the requirements are that H-1B workers receive at
least $40,000 a year in salary and benefits and that a company show that the
median wage paid to its American workers had increased from the previous year.

High-tech prefers a bill co-sponsored by Reps. David Dreier, R-Covina, and Zoe
Lofgren, D-San Jose, that would increase annual visas to 200,000 between fiscal
years 2001 and 2003 but does not include any new requirements. A bill pending in
the Senate largely mirrors the Dreier-Lofgren bill, boosting the visa cap to
195,000 from 2001 to 2003. The Smith bill has only two Republican co-sponsors,
one being Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell. The Dreier-Lofgren bill has 62
co-sponsors.

But Smith is the chairman of the Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee,
and Lofgren said Wednesday that his bill was approved by the committee solely in
deference to his powerful position. Lofgren was not allowed to offer her bill
for a committee vote.

"I respect Lamar Smith, I just don't agree with him," she said. "The tech
leaders that I talk to . . . said they would rather have no bill than the Smith
bill."

Smith said his proposal is the only one that is good both for the high-tech
industry and American workers. Last week, he agreed to change his bill to remove
some additional industry requirements, such as making new visas available only
to companies that have increased hiring of Americans.

Temporary boost

In 1998, Congress temporarily boosted the number of H-1B visas to 115,000 a year
in response to pleas from Silicon Valley that it couldn't find enough qualified
workers. Demand is so high for the visas that this year all were allocated by
March, six months before the end of the fiscal year. Compounding the problem is
that under the 1998 legislation the number of visas is supposed to drop next
year to 107,500 and revert to the 1998 level of 65,000 the following year.

That's led the high-tech industry to push hard for another temporary increase
this year. Republicans and Democrats responded with three bills and bipartisan
support for an increase, despite complaints from some American engineers that
companies prefer visa holders to U.S. workers because they are less expensive
and beholden to the firms that bring them to this country.

Lofgren still hopes that the arcane procedures of the House of Representatives
will let her introduce her bill to the full House so it can prevail over Smith's
bill. Dreier will have a key say in that, as he chairs the Rules Committee that
makes such decisions. Dreier has spoken kindly of Smith and his legislation, but
has not said which bill he prefers.

"As we look to this skilled-worker issue proceeding to the House floor, it is
critical that we continue to move forward in a spirit of bipartisanship that
avoids politicizing this top priority," Dreier said in a statement after the
Judiciary Committee vote.

Lofgren will create a new hurdle for her legislation when she attempts to
include two other immigration proposals. One would extend an amnesty provision
for Nicaraguans and Cubans to others in Latin America. The other, known as late
amnesty, would allow illegal immigrants who entered the United States before
1986 to apply to become U.S. citizens -- an extension of a 1980s amnesty program
that was given to people who had been in the country since 1972.

The White House last week said it wanted those provisions included in anH-1B
visa bill. And the immigration amnesty plans received a boost this week when
prominent conservative Republican Jack Kemp joined with liberal Democrat Henry
Cisneros to urge Congress to approve them with the visa legislation.

Disagreement

Dreier and Smith said those issues don't belong in the visa bill. Democrats are
playing politics because they know those immigrations proposals wouldn't pass
Congress on their own, Smith said.

It's likely that visa legislation will not be voted on until June, because the
House is enmeshed in a contentious debate about whether to approve China's entry
into the World Trade Organization deal. That vote is scheduled for next week.
But supporters say they are still optimistic a visa deal will be worked out.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas
[000518 BU 1C]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 30, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ORIGINAL H-1B VISA BILL NEEDS SPEEDY APPROVAL GAMESMANSHIP THREATENS TO DELAY
CRUCIAL HIGH-TECH WORKER INCREASE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 612 words


FROM the way Democrats and Republicans alike are rallying to the cause, a bill
raising the ceiling on temporary visas for high-tech workers should sail through
Congress this year. Both parties agree that high tech needs tens of thousands
more software engineers and programmers from abroad to feed its voracious
growth.

But obstacles in the House are threatening to delay and possibly doom passage of
two competing bills increasing H-1B visas.

On the Republican side, the problem is the deference shown to Lamar Smith of
Texas, a subcommittee chairman who tends to get his way on immigration matters.
He is sponsoring a bill that the high-tech industry rightly distrusts, even
though it would eliminate all caps on H-1B visas for three years.

On the Democratic side, the problem is the tinkering that Rep. Zoe Lofgren of
San Jose is doing with a bill she's co-sponsoring with California Rep. David
Dreier, R-Covina. With the support of the Clinton administration, she's
promoting an amendment that Republicans will resist, granting amnesty to
potentially hundreds of thousands of Central Americans whose immigration status
has been in limbo.

The sensible way to avert the infighting is for both parties to agree now to the
original, unencumbered Dreier-Lofgren bill. The bill takes an evenhanded
approach to the H-1B issue and is similar to, but improves on, a bill that the
Senate already has passed. The Dreier-Lofgren bill would:

(hbox) Raise the number of H-1B visas to 200,000 per year for each of the next
three years. The current limit is 115,000 but would drop to 65,000 in 2002. (A
Senate bill also sets a 200,000 cap but, with exemptions for university
research, the actual total could run tens of thousands higher. We'd favor the
hard cap of 200,000.)

(hbox) Double the fee for an H-1B visa that employers pay to $1,000, and use
$200 million collected annually to retrain displaced American workers, provide
scholarships for students majoring in engineering and computer science, and
provide incentives for math and science teachers to work in low-income schools.

(hbox) Require that the notoriously inefficient Immigration and Naturalization
Service speed up its processing. It would also protect H-1B holders caught up in
the INS' Byzantine paperwork from being deported when their visas run out. And
it recognizes that the long-term solution to H-1Bs is reforming the system of
permanent work visas or green cards, and begins that process.

You might assume that high tech would prefer Smith's proposal, which would drop
the cap on H-1Bs altogether, to the Dreier-Lofgren bill. But the industry sees
Smith's bill, with its extensive paperwork and reporting requirements, asa
Trojan horse creating new burdens and barriers, especially for startups.

Lofgren could also gum up the works if she persists in trying to attach the
immigration amnesty to the H-1B bill. It would extend amnesty to immigrants who
arrived in America before 1986, and would give Hondurans and Guatemalans the
same right to citizenship that Congress gave to Cubans and Nicaraguans. (A
Republican Congress's sympathy extended only to victims of left-wing regimes.)

The provisions are laudable; we support them. But they weren't in the bill that
Lofgren and Dreier carefully crafted; they're not germane to H-1B; and they're
becoming a point of divisiveness.

This year's H-1B limit was exhausted five months into the fiscal year. Something
must be done now to raise the quota and prevent a repeat of another long
backlog.

The Dreier-Lofgren bill does that best, but it will take more bipartisan
cooperation and less gamesmanship to assure its passage.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 18, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CRUCIAL TECH VISAS STALLED BY POLITICS LOFGREN NEEDS TO PUSH H-1B LEGISLATION BY
ITSELF, WITHOUT RIDERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 718 words


THE prospects for a high-tech worker bill on Capitol Hill before the fall are
fading fast amid political strains and summer heat. The next two weeks, before
Congress' summer recess, may determine whether any bill gets through at all this
year.

Support has splintered for what was once heralded as a bipartisan bill. The two
co-sponsors from California, San Jose Democrat Zoe Lofgren and Republican David
Dreier, are communicating through acid letters and statements to the press, not
face-to-face. High tech's lobbies appear at a loss as to what to do.

The bill in its present form is not the issue, per se. It would pass
overwhelmingly if given an up-or-down vote. The problem is over Democrats'
efforts to attach politically charged riders to it.

The bill would increase the number of temporary or H-1B visas vital to the
health of the computer industry. The number of H-1Bs would be raised to 200,000
for each of the next three years. Not only is there already a large backlog in
H-1B applications from companies seeking engineers and programmers; if nothing
is done, the current limit of 115,000 per year will fall back to 65,000 in 2002.

The bill also would double the fee for an H-1B visa to $1,000, and channel the
money for science scholarships and job training. And it would force the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to begin to reform its visa programs and
update its archaic systems. (One reservation we have with the bill: Without a
lot more money, an already burdened INS will be swamped by a sudden doubling of
H-1Bs, and the reforms will fail.)

Soon after the bill was introduced last spring, political maneuvering began. The
White House argued that any immigration bill should help political refugees from
Honduras as well as PhDs from India. So it called for attaching two amendments.

One would give citizenship to 300,000 illegal immigrants, mostly Central
Americans, left in limbo from a 1986 declaration of amnesty. The other would
grant the same citizenship rights to Haitians, Salvadorans and Guatemalans that
Congress has given to Cubans and Nicaraguans.

We too favor both measures -- but not at the risk of jeopardizing H-1B reforms
this year. That should have been Lofgren's position as well. Instead, by
carrying water for the White House, she has undermined her own bill and created
a rift with Dreier.

Dreier knows that the anti-immigration wing of his party will never buy the
White House's amendments. And he also doesn't want to be trapped into a debateon
the floor of the House that makes Republicans look anti-Latino in the weeks
preceding the Republican convention in Philadelphia.

But Lofgren also faults the way Republicans have handled the bill. The
Dreier-Lofgren bill is competing with another, sponsored by Texas Republican
Lamar Smith, that the high-tech industry adamantly opposes because of its
extensive paperwork and reporting requirements. For all its professed love of
Silicon Valley, the Republican leadership has yet to side with Dreier over
Smith. Without the leadership's backing, Lofgren wonders if Dreier can deliver
enough votes, even if the amendments are dropped.

Last week, Lofgren and five moderate Democrats, including Californians Robert
Matsui and Anna Eshoo, made what they consider a conciliatory gesture: They
wrote Dreier encouraging him to move the bill forward without amendments. But
they did so ambiguously, with a backhand swipe at Dreier. This infuriated him
and confirmed in his mind that the Democrats fully intend, regardless of what
they say, to create an embarrassing floor fight.

Dreier may be overly worried, but the White House has been meddlesome, and
Lofgren has been too accommodating of it. The combination has created mistrust
that has stalled an important bill.

Some high-tech lobbyists remain hopeful that they will get H-1B limits raised,
perhaps attached to a budget bill that will be slapped together in the fall. But
Dreier-Lofgren may end up unrecognizable if that happens -- a mystery meat
thrown into undercooked sausage.

Now is the time to deal with H-1B quotas, as a bill in its own right, not later.
But that won't happen unless Lofgren and other Democratic sponsors unambiguously
support an unencumbered bill -- and put off other immigration battles for
another day.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 170 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 26, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH VISAS BOGGED DOWN INCREASE GETS MIRED IN ELECTION POLITICS

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA AND K. OANH HA, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legislation to increase the number of visas available for skilled foreign
workers, once on a fast track to approval under strong pressure from the
high-tech industry, now will not get through Congress until at least September
because it has become deeply entangled in election-year politics.

Thrown into the chaos of the final days of a legislative session in theweeks
before a tight presidential election, the legislation to boost the number of
so-called H-1B visas is in danger of being delayed until next year. But key
congressional backers and high-tech officials remain confident that Congress and
the White House will find a way to deliver on one of Silicon Valley's top
legislative priorities this year.

"We're absolutely confident the votes are there" to pass an increase, said
William Archey, president of the American Electronics Association. "We're
getting caught in election-year stuff."

Silicon Valley executives have argued they need more foreign workers to fill
vacancies in the booming high-tech industry. This year's allotment of 115,000
H-1B visas was reached in March, six months before the end of the fiscal year.
Proposals in the House of Representatives and Senate would nearly double that
allotment to about 200,000 a year over the next three years.

But House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, on Tuesday confirmed what many in
Silicon Valley had feared recently -- the House legislation will not be voted on
before Congress breaks for its summer recess at the end of the week.

The Senate is still trying to bring its legislation up for a vote this week. But
the failure of the House to act before its members leave town for the political
conventions means the legislation will have to be approved in the most hectic
and unpredictable time of the year in Washington -- fall of an election year.

As Congress rushes to pass a budget and finish its work so members can go home
to campaign for re-election, it's often hard to pass controversial legislation.
And Silicon Valley executives have warned that should Congress fail to increase
the number of H-1B visas, many projects will have to be delayed or scrapped
because of a lack of manpower.

The delay is limiting the growth of some companies, said Kapil Nanda, chief
executive of Infogain Corp., a Los Gatos consulting firm. Nanda estimates that
his company, which accepts projects on contract from local companies, has lost
between $3 million and $5 million this year in projects that would have been
worked on by H-1B staff. This year Infogain has hired more than 100 engineers on
H-1B visas, and an additional 50 are in the pipeline because Infogain can't get
the special visas.

Recruiting difficulty

Nanda fears the delay might cost the company talented workers.

"Not getting those visas has definitely hindered our growth," said Nanda. "The
uncertainty makes it difficult to recruit people and give them a kind of time
frame of when we can hire them. By the time we get to them they may have moved
on. These are people with lots of options."

With the backlog of people waiting for visas, Nanda said the company probably
won't be able to bring in visa workers until the winter.

"We're talking about years of backlog," said Tracy Koon, Intel Corp.'s director
of corporate affairs. "It's like that scene in Indiana Jones running with the
big rock behind him. The backlog has gotten bigger and bigger and more difficult
to deal with."

The H-1B legislation needs to surmount more than just the hectic final days of a
legislative session. The issue has become enmeshed in the battle for control of
the House of Representatives and the fight for Latino votes in the November
elections.

In addition, the industry was hoping early passage of the bill would help
alleviate one of the problems with the visa program. For the past few years, the
visa allotment has been reached early in the fiscal year, causing applications
to stockpile awaiting the new allotment when the next fiscal year begins on Oct.
1.

Backers of the H-1B visa increase this year planned to try to add thousands more
visas into the current fiscal year to erase that backlog. But with final
approval not even possible before September at the earliest, its unlikely the
law could be enacted before the 2000 fiscal year ends Sept. 30.

Things seemed to be moving along smoothly this spring, with key committees in
the House and Senate approving visa increases. But the main factor in the
process grinding to a halt was a White House proposal on May 11 that injected
two immigration issues important to Latinos into the legislation.

'This is a big deal issue'

One proposal would extend a current immigration amnesty provision for
Nicaraguans and Cubans to others from Latin America. The second, known as late
amnesty, would allow illegal immigrants who entered the United States before
1986 to apply to become U.S. citizens. A similar amnesty was passed in the
1980s.

Republicans charged that Democrats wanted to tack on unrelated items to the H-1B
bill just to force the GOP to turn them down and look bad in the eyes of
Latinos. Democrats, led by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a chief sponsor of one
of the visa increase bills, said the Latino issues are immigration related and
should be considered with the H-1B bill.

"This is a big deal issue," she said. "Maybe the Republicans didn't know that,
but it is a huge issue in the Latino community all over America. I didn't make
that happen."

Still, Lofgren and five other House Democrats said in a letter to Rep. David
Dreier, R-Covina, a key sponsor of one of the visa bills, that Republicans drop
the Latino issues in order to get a vote on the H-1B increase. But Republicans
criticized the tone of the letter as highly partisan and said they are seeking a
bipartisan spirit before moving forward.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
